ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e28	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of Sogn and Fjordane, Gunhild Berge Stag, now takes the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Roy Steffensen from 24 November onwards and until further notice from the Right-wing Group on the Permit of the Representative of Ingunn Foss from 25 to 30 November and from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Even Eriksen from 25 November to 1 December – both to take part in the 143rd session of the Interparliamentary Union in Madrid These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for West Agder, Aase Marthe J. Horrigmo, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the mandate of the representative Ingunn Foss, on the basis of parental leave. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For West Agder: Amalie Gunnufsen For Hedmark: Bente Irene Aaland For Rogaland: May Helen Hetland Ervik
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e91	May Helen Hetland Ervik is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e98	On behalf of Gisle Meininger Saudland, Erlend Wiborg and myself, there is a proposal for a reduced employer's period of sick pay when the absence is due to covid-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e103	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e119	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Government Councils Trygve Slagsvold Vedum, Björn Schjörn and Anne Beate Kristiansen Twinnereim will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e128	Education has been one of the main priorities of the development policy of the previous government. It has been for good reason, because we know that education contributes to more sustainable growth in developing countries. It contributes to equality. It contributes to liberation. Fewer get married early – fewer children and better health. Yes, it contributes a lot, not least for women. That is why the previous government of the Stortinget also promoted a stepping-up to the Global Partnership for Education in Ours, and a unanimous increase in funding for the Global Partnership for Education – money going to classrooms, going to educational material, and, not least, going to training more teachers. The reason why we made a proposal for the Storting is that it is going to go beyond government change, that a mandate from the Stortinget to enter into a commitment to a United Nations organisation or other organisations, for Norway has always had a tradition of delivering on its obligations. It's different than if you just promise it twice in assistance to, for example. climate prevention or education in general. This is a commitment that Norway has always traditionally made when it is promised. That's why there's a difference. We have always complied with our donor promises, and therefore my question to the Minister for Development is: why is Norway's reputation put to the test as a credible partner by withdrawing from the promise now, just by cutting the budget and advertising in the state budget that it will not contribute to the increase promised internationally by Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e137	I am pleased that the representative Solberg is keeping development policy high on the agenda. Education is a very important factor in combating poverty in the world. That is why I am pleased to announce that the government has submitted a budget in which we aim to deliver on the commitments announced by the previous government by its accession, namely a doubling of training aid. And we've put forward a proposal where education aid amounts to 3.4 billion. kr – a significant contribution to international poverty reduction. It is true, as the representative says, that the Stortinget took a Roman numbering decision in which it committed up to 3.7 billion. kr i aid for GPE – Global Partnership for Education. However, I would like to stress that there were no legal contractual obligations entered into. The current government does not break any agreements concluded, and then it may be interesting to recall that the previous government, when they wanted to make their political priorities on the development budget, made significant cuts in renewable energy efforts, resulting in a significant need for renegotiation of agreements already concluded, and a reduction in aid to several partners. This is something the current government does not intend to do with agreements concluded on the educational side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e144	We have signed an agreement with GPE. We've been to a conference with a majority from Stortinget in our backs to follow the promises we've made. What's amazing about GPE is that they match money locally. It contributes to a complete increase in education budgets for long-term development. It is especially important for girls and education. It's our nobility that we keep our obligations according to such things. What this government has done is a clear de-priority of education and a clear de-prioritisation of the action that mobilises resources from countries themselves as far as possible. This is why Norway’s reputation as a predictable donor to one of the major development projects in the future is at stake. I want to know if there's a special reason why you've chosen to take this away. Cut 750 million. kr is mainly on this organisation. Is there anything about GPE that makes you cut that deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e151	I share the representative's great commitment to education as an important factor in combating poverty in the world. Therefore, Norway continues to be a significant donor both to the GPE — still one of the most important — and to other important actors on the educational side. I would like to stress that we discharge our legal obligations to the GPE and other donors. Consequently, there is no need to ask questions about Norway’s predictability in the field of education. We're still going to be a significant giver. However, I would like to stress that a new government naturally reserves the right to ensure that development policy and assistance are at all times structured as we believe to be as effective as possible. That is why we have said that renewable energy and climate adaptation funds, which were neglected by the previous government, should be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e156	There will be follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e161	It cut 750 million. kr in the aid budget. Education has been primarily addressed and a signal has been sent that education is not a priority in the largest and most important action related to it and to mobilise resources locally. But what's my question is, Is that how you think GPE doesn't deliver? Is it true that this is not a proper measure, that long-term assistance – which helps countries plan for their education – plans for teacher training, which means that they have enough teachers in the classroom to give what we have as a sustainability goal, namely quality in education, not just numbers in education – is not important? Is that supposed to be an ad hoc solution? A unanimous increase gave this authority so that there would be a commitment Norway could stand by over a government shift. There were no signs before the budget came, no criticisms made there, and yet the reputation of Norway is put to the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e168	I can welcome the representative Solberg by saying that despite a planned reduction in support for the GPE, Norway will continue to be a significant donor, one of the largest donors, to the GPE. Our total training effort continues at a high level, at the level of the government of Solberg's own promise of accession. 3.4 B.C.E. kr in support of international education is a significant sum. Norway cannot do everything, but we can do a lot, and our efforts in education are going to have a significant impact on, not least, girls in exposed positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e173	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e178	My follow-up question is still to the councillor of Twinnereim. It's possible that the government believes in the calculations itself, but it's not in touch. The calculations carried out by the Global Partnership for Education itself indicate that the government's cut will mean that in developing countries there will be 94 655 fewer who choose to study as teachers, that 3407 fewer classrooms will be built, and 22 million fewer textbooks will be printed. When you've initially gone away from 3.4 billion. Next year, NOK 662 million will be spent. kr – for the entire period we're talking about near 2 billion. kr – that means something. My question is, how does the Council of State defend the government's dramatic re-prioritisation when education is not mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e184	I think it is a pity that in development policy we should address different vulnerable and dramatic needs. I'm sure we share a strong ambition to fight poverty where it monies the most. Then a new government must reserve the right to turn the effort where we believe it has the greatest effect. That being said, we maintain support for education at a very high level, namely, 3.4 billion. kr. I would also like to stress that we have provided support for Education Cannot Wait, which is a very important educational initiative for vulnerable children and young people, especially in refugee situations, which has been hit by, among others. crises and pandemics. Then I would like to stress that it is very important to ensure that other donors also get on the road, and that Norway does not carry this promise almost alone – we have been a very great donor – and not least contribute to the financing of its own education budgets by developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e191	Ingerd Schou - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e196	It's not this representative that sets this up against each other; it's the government that cancels out. Education is the key to sustainable development aid and to economic growth, self-sufficiency and equality. It is the basic measure to help children and young people get ahead, so education gives young girls a future, and they avoid forcibility and oppression. As previously mentioned in the questionnaire, this has been dealt with in the Stortinget, with a unanimous decision – also with the support of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party – and education is thus not mentioned as a government bet area, either in the Hurdal platform or in the additional proposition of the State budget. It also probably explains why the government proposes the dramatic cut in support of the Global Partnership for Education. What assessments has the government made that it is no longer relevant to have this as a priority in development policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e203	The government is continuing our high ambitions in the field of education, and there's nothing at all about zeroing out any assistance. We're continuing a level of 3.4 billion. kr. Education is an important key, I agree with the representative, but it is not the only key to development. It is also important that children have food in their stomachs when learning, and it is important that they have access to electricity, which one billion people in the world today do not have. For this reason, development policy must be on a number of fronts. Education is important, but it is not the only key. That is why the government has said that we want to focus our efforts on other areas, which have been neglected for the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e208	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e213	I thought I'd find some money for education. That's why I'm going to move over to the assistance that goes to Syria. The magazine Aid Currently has revealed that Syria demands all assistance in Syrian Pounds. That is probably okay, but the exchange rate is then twice as high as the exchange rate for the market in general. Assad then receives Norwegian aid money — taxpayers’ money — to maintain his terrorist regime. Norway has given 10 billion. kr to Syria since 2016 and the previous Prime Minister wanted to give even more. Half of 10 billion. kr is 5 billion. kr, and there's a lot of dictatorship Assad in Syria can do with 5 billion. kr. My question is whether this practice is something known to the Minister for Development and whether or not she defends it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e220	This is mainly about humanitarian aid to Syria, which is, to a large extent, outside my constitutional remit. I can try to answer anyway. I am not familiar with the ongoing debate on currency in connection with assistance to Syria. What I can say is that we are facing an extreme humanitarian crisis in Syria, where a significant number of people are at immediate risk of famine. That is why it is important for us to find ways of providing humanitarian assistance in this very vulnerable area in front of a cold winter. I would also like to stress that there is very limited scope for government support; this is something we are trying to avoid in these countries. We're trying to find multilateral channels and ground-based organisations that can contribute humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e227	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e232	The answer is simply not correct. The international community has given 2.5 billion dollars. So half of this has gone to the Assad regime. This is something that has been revealed in the context of aid, and to which the various parties have been given the opportunity to respond, but have not responded – apart from the Advance Party. So that's how Norway maintains a corrupt and brutal 5 billion regime. kr. This is a regime that has been sanctioned by large parts of the world, but Norway is contributing 5 billion. kr to maintain the regime. If this scheme had been in the private business, it would have been called corruption, namely paying the authorities to access a market, and no matter how bad it is for people in Syria, you cannot maintain a terrorist regime. Does the Minister for Development think it is still right to maintain this assistance, even if half goes to Assad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e239	The Council of State of Kristiansen Twinnereim will be answered. Although this is a little bit on the side of her constitutional area, she gets the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e244	I'm going to be careful to comment on the constitutional responsibility of another Council of State, but I want to say that the overall principle of Norwegian humanitarian action is that we don't go through the authorities' channels in the area of humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e250	Ingrid Fiskaa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e255	Governments are talking about twisting the effort in the development budget your government thinks he's the most effective, defending with it the cut off in education aid. The truth is that the cut of the Global Partnership for Education is part of a much larger cut in the overall development budget. 750 million. kr of what the government approves on the development budget is not ODA-approved, and there is still a lack of – with this – approx. 200 million. kr to reach the 1-percentile. My question is, what is it about the world's development of poverty that justifies such a dramatic cut in the overall aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e262	The answer is that the proposed budget of the 2022 government has a record level of Norwegian aid. We're increasing the level of assistance with three billion. kr from current year. It is a very, very voiced budget, and I believe that we should focus the debate on how we can set up this considerable space of action so that it can be as targeted and effective as possible. There the government has been clear that we want to increase efforts for climate finance, for food security, for women and for gender equality, among other things, because these are areas where we can contribute to ring-fences on very many of the sustainability goals. In the case of ODA approval, which the representative raised, we have good faith that the advertised climate investment fund will be eligible for ODA approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e269	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e274	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The centre party and the Workers' Party are unfortunately serving lifting breakage. It is planned that sick, disabled, unemployed and on-the-job workers will receive increased costs and large cuts. 600 million. kr is sent by extrapolation to sick people in the form of prostheses. The government doesn't hesitate to make any extra dollars. The amount of the duty shall be removed in such a way as to include, inter alia: persons who receive a motivational allowance at the centre of the day will be taxed even more of the few dollars they receive — as Thomas in Larvik, who receives NOK 16 per hour, and who now have to tax even more. It's so petty that words get poor. The Workers' Party and the Centre Party adopted, together with, inter alia: The Progress Party, earlier this year, was to give priority to holiday pay for persons who were on leave and unemployed under the Korona. LO uses terms like heartbreak and that people are harbinged about their own government not prioritizing them. So families and people who are severely affected by the pandemic financially did not get – initially, at least – a penny. Now we're recording that the Prime Minister is on the phone calling debaters before the debate broadcast yesterday, so we'll see what happens. What is clear, at least, is that in the area of aid more than 40 billion will be provided. kr. In the climate field, the money is loose. The trade union deduction is prioritised, and I guess the LO will have to pay for the 42 million dollars they spit into the campaign for red-green election holidays. The progress party believes it is wrong to cut back on the unemployed, the unemployed and the outlawed and will ensure that they actually get what they are entitled to. What will the Council of State say to all the perms, the sick and the destitute who are now getting it more difficult? Why is it more important to give priority to assistance, symbolic climate action and trade union deductions than to set up sick, disabled and permissive persons who are severely affected by the pandemic in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e287	It's interesting to listen to Sylvi Listhaug, for what is the Workers' Party-Center Party government doing? Well, we have taken over a budget from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, which has been committed by Sylvi Listhaug and the Advance Party, which was their supporting party. And then we've started to systematically look at how we can tackle that budget that makes the differences between people go down, how we can do the grip that makes those who have low incomes get less tax, that those who are concerned about electricity bills get less taxes, that those who have to go far to work get less money to commute. Then we've been busy getting to some of the most vulnerable groups. For example, the parties that Sylvi Listhaug put into government chose to cut 300 million. D to resource-intensive users, i.e. those with the greatest need for assistance in Norwegian municipalities. It seemed Right, Christian People's Party and Left it was wise to cut. We put it back in, just because we thought it was important to help those who need the most. It was decided to cut off the AAP scheme, i.e. work clearance money, which meant that many people would be safe from 1 January. We put that money back in, just to make people feel more secure. We have committed funds to action places, long-term job creation. We've done a lot of work trying to bring down the differences between people. It's really the whole project of the Workers' Party and the Center's party when we get into the government: to bring down the geographical differences – that one should have the same opportunities wherever one lives – and also the financial differences. We are following the debate. I think that is a very good sign that we have a Prime Minister who follows the debate, talks to people, calls, listens and is responsive. I believe that is a prime minister's job and task. Of course he should, and the fact that an opposition politician is critical of a prime minister talking to people, I think it's amazing. I think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e296	Blame on others seems to be the mantra of Battle Violence Vedum. The Progress Party is very sceptical about symbolic climate action and strangely high taxes and taxes. Norway does not have its own atmosphere, and then it makes little sense with strange and extremely high climate taxes, which only move jobs, emissions and well-being to other countries. The fact that we are going to penalise industry and the population with sky-high CO 2 taxes when we see other countries, such as China and India, continue to increase emissions is quite tragic. On 8 April 2021, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said about the CO 2 tax: ‘It is easy to think that you should triple the CO 2 charge if you can take the electric bike down to the town hall or to a department building. But a fisherman who lives in Northernland who needs to get income from the fishing boat, or a craftsman in Trøndelag who needs a car to get to work – then reality becomes quite different.’ And on the question of reversing it: ‘– Yes, this is totally inappropriate. There is no right-wing policy at its worst.’ Why does the Central Party allow itself to be overrun by the Workers' Party to conduct poor right-wing policies, when it has major consequences for businesses and people across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e324	The president has to remind us that when the time is up, one shouldn't take a bet, then one has to go in for a landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e329	I get to bet now, I then, when the time begins. What is the Workers' Party-Center Party administration doing for the drivers? Well, we're putting the charges down compared to the proposition that was put forward, precisely because we're busy having a fair and good climate policy that doesn't affect people unfairly. So what are we going to do, for example? with a fee that affects people living around all over Norway? We reduce the electricity charges by almost 50 pst. in January, February and March. We see that everyone in Norway is dependent on using power, and it's socially very skeptical. That's why we're doing that grip. Then we are concerned with those who are very dependent on a lot of transport – with the commuting allowance, which was cut when the Progress Party had the finance minister. Now we're increasing it. For example, one that commutes about 12 miles every day gets $4,500 less in taxes. So those who depend on transport come out better – much better – with the draft budget presented by the Labour Party and the Centre Party than what the Right and Advance Party have adopted for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e338	There will be follow-up questions - Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e343	It's a lie. In three weeks the Senterpartiet has therefore delivered tax increases for Norwegian drivers of more than 1 billion. kr. People who have ordered a new car, a hybrid car, now get a tax shock of up to NOK 80000 next year. Earlier this year, Marit Arnstad ultimatum stated: The centre party was not to participate in a government that increased the petrol price to over 20 kroner per litre. It's actually done it several times. And what did the council of Vedum say? – If we go to government for the autumn, it is entirely inappropriate to increase the costs for those who drive a petrol or diesel car. Before the election, you were crystal clear on this, and now you run from your promises. Instead, the Council of State is now starting to talk about commuters. Unfortunately, there are not so many commuters in Norway. Most people will have a tax shock and a cost shock. Why has the Central Party failed the drivers and allowed itself to be overrun by the Workers' Party in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e351	When you're out of arguments, you have to accuse a government council of lying. It is clear that Listhaug needs to turn the temperature up when the arguments are thin. To take a car first: when you see the budget proposals submitted by the Labour Party and the Centre party, compared with those put in by the government of Sylvi Listhaug, the fees are lower, not higher. If you, for example, is subject to pump price, e.g. on biodiesel, it's 60 cents lower. We're doing this kind of fully focused grip. If I'm going to calculate from the adopted budget this year, it's calculated that with the tax penalties we're doing, it might be a normal price of 50 kroner at extra cost. That's that calculation. But then we give a commuter like that. commute 12 miles, $4,600 less in taxes, which makes him come out much better. One who takes a ferry comes out better. One who depends on transport in everyday life comes out much better with the arrangement that the Workers' Party and the Centre have presented, than the Right and Advance Party have voted year after year in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e360	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e365	They don't know it's 1 billion. NOK extra in increased charges. It is another matter I am also concerned about. Like me, many parents send their children into private kindergartens. Parents and children are evenly satisfied with these. Norway had never had full kindergarten coverage if it had not been for entrepreneurs and families starting private kindergartens. I met two of them yesterday: Anita Gaustad, who runs the Sunbakken Kindergarten in Trondheim and Anette Lauareid Hovdan, who runs the Little People Kindergarten in Etne, where I have also been visiting. Now it seems that the government is spending money killing these kindergartens in the state budget. Anita and Anette say straight away that it can mean the hook on the door – it will hit hard. Why is it more important to pursue a socialist policy against private kindergartens rather than to ensure good kindergartens and let parents choose for themselves? Is the Workers' Party also in charge here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e374	To take it by car first, as we were in the village: Sylvi Listhaug, who is driving an electric car, should be very happy that we reduce the electricity charge by 48 pst. She should be cheering for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e379	I'm not driving an electric car. The council must not lie. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e384	Let's move on to the kindergarten bit. We in the Center Party are very busy having both public and private kindergartens in Norway. It is also the Workers' Party-Center Party administration. The mass of public and private kindergartens has been of the good. Then we are concerned that the tax money we use should go to kindergarten, that it should be done efficiently and well, and that it should ensure different kindergartens around the whole of Norway. Now that we have made that adjustment to compensation for pension costs, it is because I believe that you should have a good upturn around the good financing of kindergartens over time, there must be the most appropriate compensation possible. Then you've come to the conclusion that the compensation that has been given is a little too high. I think it's important for all of us who manage taxes, that we give the right compensation. And then, of course, we need help for those who have had special challenges, and that's what the government has put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e389	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e394	We are in a situation with a budget at troubled seas, and in that situation I will ask the new Minister for Fisheries and the Sea to sail into the Mediterranean. We have been through an election campaign in which fishing has certainly been high on the agenda, where the overall opposition has been critical of the fisheries policy of the old government. Last year, there was a report from the National Audit Office that struck down as a bomb in the Norwegian fisheries policy. The report concluded that the current fisheries policy has been damaging to coastal communities, has broken the central principle of fisheries policy, has led to the concentration of fishing rights and has ensured that large operators have become even larger – it has simply closed the way to getting into fisheries for young people. So there's a series of negative developments for the Norwegian coastal nation, which is built on fishing. Many coastal communities are now, effectively, away from closed fishing. The government – and welcome to the Council of State – has formed a platform where the National Audit Report is not mentioned in a word, while representatives from the Labour Party, among others. The Council of State when he was a candidate has spent a lot of time in fisheries policy contexts referring to the national audit report and to the need to do something about it. So I want the Council of State to just draw up what's going to be the main lines, because it's hard to see from the platform that this is a new course in a troubled sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e403	From the Hurdal platform, it is very clear that we want to present a new quota notification to Stortinget. That job is already in progress. We're doing preparatory work, and we've also said something about what our objectives are about it. I have great ambitions for the further development of the fishing industry. We have also been aware that we want quotas to be allocated in a predictable and fairer way, that ownership of the coastal fleet is restricted, and that the breadth and diversity of the coastal fleet is guaranteed. Of course, this should include: be based on an adequate allowance basis. In addition to notifying us of a new quota notification – which I also feel is very pleased with – we will come back to Stortinget with the follow-up to the Riksrevision report, and there are also requests decisions from this assembly that we are going to deal with in turn and in order. But fundamental: what is the basic wall of fisheries legislation, the three laws that are absolutely central, they are established. That will be the starting point, and we will be able to report as the work progresses, both on the timetable available for this and on the content of a new allowance message.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e414	A new quota message takes time. It takes time to get back to Stortinget with a response to what the Riksrevision came with last year. I guess the council has not intended to come to Stortinget and just show that something is coming in a very long time. Here we must have a real fisheries policy discussion. The situation of fishing is that with today's system more and more dishes are gathering on ever fewer hands. There is one machine that only goes and goes and goes. There has been a shift from coastal communities to fewer and fewer fleets, which are totally destructive to the potential for existence of coastal communities. I've noticed that the government wants a fairer and fairer distribution, but no one here knows what it can mean. Can the government give us a little insight and inform the Storting? What does one mean by'more respectable and fair'? Can the coastal communities expect a significantly larger share of quota rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e423	I think we'll be able to come back to that when we get further into the work that we're going to do. The previous government spent six years delivering an allowance notification to the Stortinget. I have much higher ambitions in terms of time use for the job that I and the rest of the government are going to do. As soon as I am ready and can communicate something about the schedule for that, I will make sure that it is done in an appropriate way. It is absolutely essential that we want to put in place a predictable, but also more equitable distribution of the allowances. We're also going to work on recruitment. In recent weeks, we have also clearly stated that we need to contribute to the increased recruitment of women in the fishing industry. As the platform shows, we will also limit ownership of the coastal fleet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e431	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e436	We may not come so much longer to know what is coming in these messages, but we may be able to find out if Councillor Bears agree with Bears' intersection from the election campaign, which said they wanted a fisheries policy that would strengthen the fishing communities. Now it should be the smallest fleet's turn. Can the councils tell a little about what the bears meant by that, and whether it has anchored in the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e443	The answer to the first question is yes. The profitability of the smallest fleet deserves special attention. It will get it from this government. We are also concerned about creating greater values and more activity in coastal communities. It requires a varied fleet. That is why it is also laid down as clearly as it is in the Hurdal platform. I have great respect for the fact that there is impatience in this room regarding a matter as important as a new quota notification. We have to deliver as quickly as possible, but we have also been ready – and that is a strong wish on my part – for us to have good cooperation with the fisheries organisations. It will guarantee legitimacy for the results and proposals we put on the table. I have also taken the liberty of expressing an ambition to put something on the table for this hall which can be a starting point for a broad anchoring in the Storting, so that we can get the predictability that the industry deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e450	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e455	SV has not said that we want a new quota message. We mean that based on the previous allowance notification, there are enough grounds for making new decisions. In the meantime, coastal communities are fading. That's what makes us impatient. A big thing that's outside the quota notification, and that's full of dramatics along the coast, is where the big boats are supposed to stop fishing. Should a conventional sea fishing fleet be allowed to go far into the fjords to fish? One case is from the Breivikfjord in North Norway, where a large conventional sea fishing fleet laid over 700 nets in the middle of the spring. One doesn't have to be an expert on this to realize that it drains a fjord for fish. Specially listed fish, e.g. The coastal cod, on which we are totally dependent, is being emptied in this way. You can do this because you can make exceptions for the sea fishing fleet to go in. That's what the previous government often did. Will this Council of State end it and withdraw all exemptions, so that the area within the baseline is for the coastal fishing fleet?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e464	The notification of quotas is one of the tools to put in place what this government wants to be the future fisheries policy, but we also have other instruments. One of them is the annual regulations, and I have already put the issue of havoc on the agenda, because through the annual regulations we have to ensure that we have a reasonable share of the sea areas. So this is something we'll come back to in connection with the annual regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e469	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e474	I would like to thank the representative of Knag Fylkesnes for raising a very important issue of fisheries policy and would like to add that the wild species is now so critically threatened that it has become a red-listed species. We know that open, unsecured farming facilities are one of the clearly greatest threats to the wild axis. Their use has grown so heavily that it is now a thousand times more farmed salmon than wild salmon in Norway. It threatens both an important species in Norway's ecosystem and the fishing of wild fish, which have long traditions in Norway. That is why the Green Party has long arranged for closed sea-based installations. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Council of State planning to accept continued polluting farming in open facilities? What is the Fisheries Minister's plan to save the wild beast?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e481	First, I would like to stress that the constitutional responsibility for the wild game lies with a government council other than the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. But the responsibility for the aquaculture industry and its further development lies with me. The marine industry is crucial for the lighting of houses, for the creation of value added and for safe jobs in many coastal communities and also constitutes a significant part. As much as two thirds of Norwegian maritime food exports come from the aquaculture industry. There is broad political agreement that this industry should be further developed and the government wants to contribute to the continued growth of the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework. We want to deliver policies to build up under it. The most important incentive we have is the traffic light system, which the Hurdal platform states we want to continue, but also develop further with new environmental indicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e492	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e497	My question goes to the Minister of Finance, Slagsvold Vedum. Unlike the representative of Listhaug, who was here earlier, Red and the government have a common goal of smaller differences between people. When the Minister of Finance was going to present the additional proposition to the State budget, he told NTB that there would be a completely different direction, we're going to take action that will bring down both social differences and geographical differences. Then I was very hopeful – just to be disappointed when the budget actually came and the adjustments were too modest to reverse the differences. Last year, there was an eye-catching report that showed that the one percent richest in Norway actually pay less taxes per penny they earn than all of us. The reason for this is that this elite not only receives wages, dividends and has large assets, they also own companies with huge profits. This is why it is also one of the measures such as: SSB researcher Rolf Aaberge points out, increasing the tax on the profits of the companies. He believes that the right-wing government's cut in corporate tax from 28 to 22 p.m. has had more to say about the inequality than the cuts in wealth taxes, and that in order to reduce the differences, it is necessary to reverse these tax cuts. I have already from this pulpit criticised the government for peaceing the tax settlement, and I stand by that, but the tax settlement is already broken – in the wrong direction. In violation of the agreement that had been made, Siv Jensen came with an extra cut in company tax, from 23 to 22 p.m. One percentage point might sound a little bit small, but it's going to be 4.4 billion. kr, which could go to a better everyday life in the city and built. So my question is, why does the government pay a corporate tax that is lower than the comparison you made with the right-hand side, added?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e511	What's one of the most important things for us sitting in this hall is that we have tax revenues to redistribute. That someone creates values and jobs, makes our neighbor and others get work. Then we depend on having a good private business — both large and small enterprises all around Norway that create jobs and values, and then generate tax revenues. What has been some of the fine things in Norway is that we have had a broad consensus on some basic pillars of tax policy, and one of them is that we have wanted through tax conciliation to have a stability around corporate taxation and corporate tax. It's at 22 pst. We're going to go on the same level as the previous government did. Then we've used other handles for redistribution, among other things. on the income side, which means that those with the highest income pay a little more tax, while those with lower income pay less; all who have less than DKK 750000 in income have less to pay. Those with high assets have to pay a little bit more, while a lot of people don't pay taxes because we increase the deduction for those with low assets. We are doing a lot of different steps for redistribution in the tax system, including: for those who have a long journey, and for those who live in Troms and Finns. But at the bottom it has been a strength in Norway that there has been stability, which has made people dared to invest, dared to invest, will create jobs and know what are the main pillars of both property and tax policy. That's why we've added that level to 22 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e522	The Norwegian tax policy line has not been stable. It's been cut. Over the eight years that the Workers' Party and the Centre have been in government in the last round, that tax was held at 28 p.m. So the right-hand government cut it down, and you agreed on a 23 pst settlement. So the right-hand government cut it even more. What I'm asking is why this predictability is so important that you can't increase taxes again. Why is it more important that large companies – for example, large companies with large profits – be protected from tax, than that. the unemployed receive the holiday money they have been promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e529	If we are to be able in the main hall to have good things to distribute, we need private value creation in Norway. We need jobs and people who are willing to bet. That's why we've done a lot of different tax practices just to create private value creation. One of the tax measures is that we have put corporate tax at the level we have. There were also some challenges when the tax level was set at 22 pst. That is why a step-by-step tax was introduced for you and me – everyone on the Stortinget, through it has ensured that higher taxation has been achieved with the grip we make in our alternative proposal. We're using the other elements of the tax system for redistribution. A depositor who earns about a million is taxed more, while one who earns 500,000 kroner is taxed less – just as both the Workers' Party and the Centre said before the election. We were also clear when it came to corporate taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e534	There will be follow-up questions – first Marie Snee Martinussen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e539	I have an idea for the Minister of Finance, which he might consider. If a step tax is the solution for people with high incomes to pay more – what about a progressive corporate tax, such as: is now being discussed in the United Kingdom? If the goal is to bring down the differences, we know that universal well-being is an important part of the solution. It also knows the Center Party, because both in their party program and in the Hurdal platform, there are fine things about universal well-being, and specifically that dental health is the expansion we need in our welfare now. But even if it's about mouth, it doesn't just help to keep it in your mouth; it also takes money on the table to get dental health. My question is, why has the government set out to pay NOK 0 to follow up its very fine wish for a gradual expansion of the public dentistry with the aim of equalising it with other health services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e546	Because the Workers' Party-Center Party government had been going to rule for longer than four weeks when we made the supplementary proposition. The Hurdal platform is a four-year plan, and one of the plans there is exactly what the representative is raising about dental health, because we think it is important. I fully agree with the analysis of universal well-being, and that is why we have the view we have of some taxes. What has been a development in recent years is that one has had a desire to move from a more progressive tax system, i.e. tax on ability, to more flat taxes. That's why we did the big, heavy grip that we've taken in this budget, to reduce taxes on electricity. It benefits everyone, regardless of what income you have. There has been a long discussion in Norway, and also in several other countries, how to collect tax revenue. We believe a progressive tax system is right, and then we hope that also the representatives here will notice that there is great and good grip in terms of dental health, in these four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e553	Marie Snee Martinussen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e558	Finance Minister Slagsvold Vedum has stood here now, many times in recent years and challenged finance ministers from the right on the social policy – with quite a fresh phrase. Now the finance minister has achieved what I'm assuming was the goal, namely to get power to actually do something, and not just – as I – stand here and hang. That is why I am disappointed that so many unsocial cuts are being made: the free amount and the child allowance for the disabled, the holiday allowance for the unemployed, the spectacle support, and not least the increase in the proportion of health services, which is actually a flat fee on sickness. So what really happened? Has the Minister of Finance forgotten to take the notes from the opposition into the government, or is it not all flat fees equally important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e563	We've started at an end. When you have to do a job, you have to take one piece at a time. The first bit we took, is about resource-intensive users. We thought it was one of the toughest cuts Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposed, because it affects a quite vulnerable group, and you can also be set up against others in your own municipality. So that's it with the redundancy money. We thought it was important to get security around it, because it was to be removed as early as 1 January. That's why we prioritised funds for that. Even if unemployment is falling, we are increasing the number of places of action, because we believe that one of the most important things to get people out of the poverty situation is to get people to work. That is why we increased by 1 000 places of action, and for those who need to have long-term job placements, we increased it. We believe that getting as much work as possible is one of the best distribution policies we can pursue, while at the same time having a safe social network at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e572	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e577	The Minister of Finance just stood on the platform here and said that those who make 500 000 kroner are getting lower taxes. That is quite right, but that is only half the truth of this draft budget. In a response from the Ministry of Finance, it appears that both those who earn less than DKK 400 000 will receive increased taxes, and those who earn more than DKK 600 000 will receive increased taxes, compared to the budget presented by the Solberg Government. I have previously criticized the government for lubricating thinly. In our time of government, we prioritised relief and support for those who need it the most, for example. through reduced parental benefit in kindergarten for low-income families, and now, in our last budget, a targeted tax credit for young people with low and medium income. On the other hand, the big government reduces the maximum price in kindergarten for everyone, instead of having targeted measures for them it helps the most. The government removes the deduction from work for young people with low incomes, but provides a reduced electricity charge to everyone. It's not targeted. It is also contrary to the government platform, where it says that the government will reduce the income tax on them with revenues below DKK 750000. I've just referred to that as not being right. My question to the Minister of Finance is therefore: How does the Council of State defend the fact that he increases the tax burden on low-income groups, for those with income below DKK 400,000, compared to the Solberg government provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e587	Sometimes I think that once you've been the Council of State, like the representative Tina Bru, and then comes to the Stortinget, you think you can choose a little selectively, and then you kind of make the reality. To present it as being that in the tax arrangements of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party, there is now an intensification for groups that earn less than NOK 750,000 – it is not, at all. There may be a single outcome, but overall there is no doubt that two out of three taxpayers receive less tax on the scheme submitted by the Workers' Party-Center Party government compared to the last budget adopted by the Right-wing Government. That's because, for example, we're going to have to do this. have been concerned that those who travel a long time at work will get lower taxes, while the Right, when they were sitting and driving, wanted those who traveled a long time to get higher taxes, because they thought it was a climate problem that people traveled so far to work. That was the main argument in its time. So I have noticed that Tina Bru and the right time after time is so incredibly critical that this government has faith in tax cuts. Of all the things I thought I would get criticism from the Right, it's because we cut fees for people – it's not targeted! You could say that about all kinds of tax cuts too, but of course it's a targeted scheme when we cut the electricity charges for people. Everyone in all of Norway gets lower fees and lower bills because of this cut, and we are concerned about that, because we believe that electricity is a primary asset. As a former energy minister, she should be concerned that the policy she herself has been responsible for is leading us to have record high electricity prices in the Norwegian market now. The first thing the new government does is reduce the fees, and we reduce them especially in the winter months – January, February and March – by almost 50 pst. It's focused, because we're busy with all the people. We don't think it's a problem if it's a very common Norwegian family who also enjoy it – that it should not just be a poverty response. It'll help everyone. That's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e594	I understand that the Council of State would rather stand here and talk about the electricity charge, which we have talked about before, because he obviously has not looked at the tables from his own department. What I asked was the facts that came to light on the question we have asked the Ministry of Finance that those who earn less than NOK 400,000 will receive an increase in taxes with the government's plan to pay. The Council of State here today also repeats that two out of three Nordics will receive lower taxes with the government's order than the Right added in its draft budget. That's wrong, because the Minister of Finance has not compared to what the Right stated. They have compared to the 2021 budget, the so-called reference system. I understand that there has been a misunderstanding here, but we have now received an answer from the Ministry of Finance. So the question is whether the Minister of Finance would like to correct in the Chamber today the statements he has had earlier that everyone with less than 750,000 kroner in income gets lower taxes, when we know that it turns out to be wrong. I hope he will correct those statements here in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e599	People can check that for themselves. You can see what I have in taxes now, and then you go check. Yes, I have that in tax now. And then you can check the proposals that come from the government, and then you see if it becomes more or less in tax. That's how it will be. two out of three — there may be some nuance differences — get lower taxes when they look at their tax base in 2022 compared to 2021. That is the proposal that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have adopted and that people are dealing with. We put forward our proposal and hope, of course, to have a majority for it in Stortinget. If we get a majority for that in the Storting, about two out of three will experience that they get a lower tax burden next year than this year. In addition, I realize that Tina Bru is a little frustrated that I am taking on the fact that she is charging the electricity tax herself, but it is an important political act from this government to try to bring down such charges that affect everyone. That's why we've prioritised $2.9 billion. kr to lower electricity charges, which are lower electricity charges next year than this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e606	There will be follow-up questions – first Tina Bru.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e611	I think the closest thing we're going to get is a correction of these statements here today, is that the finance minister has now begun to say about two out of three, instead of two out of three, as he has said before. This is not nuances. There will be increased tax for the group that makes less than 400000 kroner. The government gives the impression that they will not change the step tax for those with low incomes, but that is wrong. It has been admitted by the department is a mismanufacture. They say this should be corrected in the final version – and I can say what the Ministry of the Council of State writes – so that it is clear that step 1 and step 2 rates are increased in the government's proposals compared to the Solberg Government's proposals. That means that everyone with income less than NOK 650,000 gets a higher tax rate than they would have had with a Right-Registration. Those with income below NOK 300000 receive an average of NOK 1000 in increased taxes. It is one of the highest increases for those groups that receive increased taxes with their proposals. Does the Council of State think that the budget has a good social profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e616	Now, in order to create a misunderstanding, the representative Tina Bru deliberately chooses to extract this. It is a fact that you serve, for example. 500000 kroner, 580000 kroner or 600000 kroner, you get a lower tax next year than this year. In addition, if you commute, you get even more joy from it. If you're a member of a trade union, you get pleasure from it. There's no doubt that when people look at their tax schedule next year versus this year, and they're in those groups, the tax pressure will go down, not up. The right has been driving Norway for eight years. In the first budget after the Right has left, if we get a majority for it, people with normal and middle incomes will experience that the tax pressure is getting lower. In addition, they will note that the tax burden is lower, e.g. for power, and that is what we are concerned about and believe is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e621	Tina Bru – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e626	I'm going to give the Council of State the right thing to do in this budget, if you look at them as commuting far, or at those that are trade-unioned. That's when you get targeted tax havens. But for everyone else, it's not like that. The government proposes higher taxes for those with the worst advice, removing the job deduction and increasing the parental deduction from child number two. That means up to NOK 5000 more in taxes for an apprentice, or that a family with three children under the age of 12 can get over NOK 4000 in increased taxes. Once again, the government proposes to lubricate thinly rather than to give targeted action, and it bombs. I, who have good income, now enjoys reducing the maximum price in kindergarten, but I guess I'm not the target group you really want to meet. What is actually achieved by reducing the maximum price is that 41 000 households in Norway will not benefit from any of this because they are currently not making enough money to pay the maximum price. I wonder if the Council of State thinks it is a targeted scheme, and what he will do for the 41,000 who do not benefit from a reduced maximum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e631	It is extremely targeted when everyone who has children in kindergarten in Norway receives a lower price. That's what we want. The government wants it to be cheaper to have children in kindergarten for everyone. Then we do it, so it'll be cheaper to have children in kindergarten for everyone. Then we want those who have the highest income to tax a little bit more, that one should be with and pay the reduced bill. Of course, those with high incomes will also enjoy the reduced price, but they also contribute to paying it, and that is the thinking that lies in the Workers' Party-Center Party government. It is natural that those with high incomes contribute little more, but that everyone should share in the common good. One common good in Norway is the possibility of having children in kindergarten and that the price should not be too high. That's why we value having children in kindergarten, and that benefits people. I could do other maths. A family at Hamar could get up in, if you had counted on electricity and kindergarten, approx. 11 000 kroner at lower costs, so this helps people around the country. We're going to have primary goods for everyone regardless of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e636	Ane Breivik - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e641	Tax policy is not only about the level or distribution of taxes, but also about how we steer behaviour in the direction that society wants. As the word change in this debate well illustrates, the big money of the Big Government has been spent on universal tax cuts, smeared thinly beyond – this instead of spending the big money on actions like real monks. The electricity charge is cut, the travel discount is increased, and the impact of the most effective climate action we have, namely the CO 2 tax, is weakened. A review of the Evening Post shows that the government spends more money on combating climate action in Norway than on strengthening them. Could the Minister of Finance refer to a single measure that cuts emissions in Norway in 2022, compared to the Solberg government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e652	There are many measures I can refer to that do so, but it is absolutely amazing to note the enormous concern from the Right and the Left for tax cuts. Usually it happens that one boasts in the Right and the Left that one cuts fees, but once it is tax cuts that benefit everyone, it is absolutely terrible. I don't understand this big worry about people getting lower power bills. Where does it come from, really? What's the problem with people getting a little lower power bill? I think it's good that people get a little lower power bill. We're doing a lot of things on climate. For example, we are strengthening Enova, because we believe it is a good tool for creating industry, jobs and reducing emissions. And we're also going to add 100 million. kr to create new sustainable industries, such as: may include measures for more reuse, recycling and so on, in order to reduce emissions. We're going to bet on hydrogen, and we're going to bet on sea wind. We take a lot of action, because we want people on the team while we convert Norway and get Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e659	Ane Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e664	The Minister of Finance's own department states that the budget of the Støre Government will cut between 1.5 and 2 million tonnes of CO 2 less than the Solberg Government's budget proposal by 2030. The increased greenhouse gas emissions such as: the reduction of user charges entails compensation with increased cuts elsewhere as early as 2022. As far as I can see, there is no trace of new measures that cut emissions to next year. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he has calculated what his budget will cut off greenhouse gases both during 2022 and up to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e674	What is the Workers Party-Center Party government notifying the Hurdal Platform? Well, it's that, in our state budget in the future, we're going to start with also having a climate calculation of different measures. Some of the challenges when looking at different measures have been that we do not have enough tools to see how it or that grip produces climate effects. It has not developed the previous government, with the Left, Right, Christian People's Party and partly the Advance Party. That's what we're going to do, so we can get more levers involved in climate policy. The Workers' Party-Center Party administration has an important objective as well. It's that we're going to have people with us in the climate fight. If we are to succeed in the big shift we need to get Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions down, we also need to bring people. That's why we're taking action now. We are doing a number of industrial measures that are going to be taken for the future, and we are doing things out, by also increasing climate aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e681	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e686	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea. There are several requirements to participate in king-fishing in the quotad fisheries in East Finland. Among them is that the owner of the vessel must have lived in Finnmark and resided there for the last 24 months and also have been in the number of fishermen in Finnmark for the last 12 months. In order to obtain a full vessel quota, the vessel must have delivered catches from other fisheries with a first value of NOK 200000, which must be regarded as a turnover requirement. There were some negative effects when the sales requirement increased from NOK 100000 to NOK 200000. Small coastal community fishermen within fjords with a low catch base faced challenges to meet the turnover requirement, and the pressure in the open group increased significantly. In the context of examining proposals for representatives to extend access to the area of the quotad king crab fisheries, Innst was examined. 330 S for 2019-2020 adopted the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess a stepping-up model for requirements to participate in king-fishing in order to ensure that this right belongs to active fishermen and to ask the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ It may seem that the Directorate of Fisheries has misunderstood this order from Stortinget, for they have proposed for several rounds to increase the turnover requirement from NOK 200000 to NOK 300000 – even this year. Fortunately, it has been stopped by former government councils and the sales requirement has been continued at NOK 200000. On the other hand, considerable uncertainty has arisen for fishermen who are not informed whether they will be required to comply with the placing on the market requirement for the fishing of royal crabs before mid-December. Can the Council of State reassure fishermen in Finnmark that this year's marketing requirement will not be increased, as proposed by the Directorate, so that they do not catch during the last weeks of the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e702	This matter is now prepared by the Fisheries Directorate and is out for consultation, and I can assure the representative that I will deal with it with all the seriousness that this question requires. It is too early today to conclude what will become the decision, but it will be ready in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e707	I'm recording that the Council of State won't calm the fishermen. We've discussed this in the past with the predictability of the fishermen. It could create good predictability for the royal crab fishermen, who in my eyes are common people who have settled in the districts and feed on the outcome that is there. The Fisheries Director has had this out of the way and had a regulatory meeting and has received unison feedback from fishermen and fishing organisations that it is unfortunate to increase the turnover requirement. There is a stepping-up plan for other measures requested by the Stortinget. Should not the Council of State call for and signal to the fishermen that the turnover requirement will not be increased this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e714	I have noticed the strong opposition to the proposal that is out there, and they will be given great weight when I am going to make my decision. And as I said in my first answer, it's a decision that's not far ahead of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e719	There will be follow-up questions – Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e724	I want to follow up on the good question from the representative Strifeldt relating to the decision to be taken. Now there is a great deal of unrest in Finnmark, and there are a lot of fishermen who are worried about the revenue for next year. I respect the fact that the Council of State will not publish its decision here today. But is it the case that the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea shares the Right's concern as to what the increased revenue – from SEK 200 000 to DKK 300 000 – may result from consequences for fishermen's safety? If this is a message coming in mid-December, the small boats can be pushed out to sea to fish what they can — 24 hours a day. Is the Council of State concerned about the safety of fishermen in East Finland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e730	The Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is concerned with fishermen's woe and well, including the coastal fishermen in East Finland. I will therefore ensure that the decision I will take is taken as soon as possible. I have not yet received the matter on my table, but it is immediately on its way there, and then I will announce what will be the decision. As I said in my previous answer, I have noticed the strong oppositions, and they will of course be given weight when making the decision. But I don't think it's right to try to go into basic considerations in the decision that has not yet been taken, when I'm standing on the pulpit of the Great Britain, and I'm asking for respect for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e737	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e742	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, who has the coordinating responsibility for the work of the government on green shipping. The maritime industry is completely dependent on predictable and stable framework conditions in order to make proper investment decisions in order to achieve a rapid and green transition, for which they are now very powerful drivers. There is a need for large emissions cuts in shipping. In particular, climate-friendly alternatives need to be put in place for the largest ships, which sail the longest, and which release the most. Shipping is international and relates to different regions and countries. Now not only the Norwegian, but also the international maritime industry have made a proposal for a global fossil fuel levy to be established through the IMO. This week there will be meetings at the IMO. The proposal for a global CO 2 tax is discussed, where funds are to be used to finance green technology development. My question to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea is: What position does the Norwegian Government take at that meeting this week?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e756	As Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, I have the coordinating responsibility for everything that concerns green shipping. It is a responsibility I take most seriously, and which I go to with enthusiasm. Norway may be the only country in the world that has a complete maritime value chain. It wants this government to fence around and reinforce. That is why we also want to call for Norwegian pay and working conditions, to ensure that Norwegian seafarers have a good future and to increase recruitment to that profession – contrary to what we experienced in the draft government budget proposal, where large cuts were made in the net pay system. There is a lot we have to do in green shipping, and the Hurdal platform is full of measures to respond to the wish that I have experienced that industry, industry and workers have come along for a long time. They want a more active industrial policy, so that Norway can continue to be at the forefront of developing technological solutions for green shipping. We will come back with a green shipping package. With regard to the discussion relating to an international CO 2 tax fund, which the representative withdraws at the end of his post, it is premature for me to go into it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e768	That reply surprises me, that it is premature for the Minister of the Sea, all the time the United Nations agency for regulating shipping is in negotiations, and the meeting is in progress. I had expected that the Minister of the Sea had sent political signals on how the Norwegian position should be, so I almost have to clarify what Norway's position in the IMO negotiations is now. Does Norway wish to participate in and support such a fee or not? The Minister of the Sea made a reservation in his reply. Does this mean that the Minister of the Sea wants to come to Stortinget and anchor Norway's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e773	I'm sorry, it's not going to happen often from this pulpit, but unfortunately I can't answer that question completely right now. I have quite recently assumed the constitutional responsibility for coordinating the work on green shipping, but I do not have a good answer today to the question that is being asked, and then I think it is honest and sincere of me just to announce it from the Stortings pulpit. It's not going to be a habit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e778	There will be follow-up questions – Linda Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e783	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State should not make it a habit not to be able to answer very high-current questions that are essential for the maritime industry to cut emissions and succeed in the green shift, especially in an industry where it is most crucial. But if the Minister of the Sea cannot publish from the Chair what is Norway's position in the negotiations and in the meeting that is taking place these days: what does he personally think about increased CO 2 taxes? Climate Minister Barth Eide responded last week from this pulpit, and perhaps the Minister of the Sea can personally inform what he thinks would be wise of Norway to do to support the maritime industry and the international industry and their demands in a faster green transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e791	As I said in a previous answer, Hurdals Platform announces many powerful measures to bring about a green transition. Among other things, we provide zero-emission requirements for new tenders for ferries from 2023 and zero-emission technologies for the acquisition of ferries and high-speed craft, low- and zero-emission, in new tenders for speedboats from 2025. Unlike the previous government, we have announced in the Hurdal platform that we will cover additional costs related to this transition at the counties. This will contribute heavily. In addition, we contribute through many other instruments to raise green bets, and we will come back with a complete package for the conversion of green shipping. When I choose to answer how I answered the specific question instead, I think it would be completely wrong if I were to put myself in the Stockholm Chair and start with vision and personal perception.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e798	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e812	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be addressed by the representative Ane Breivik. Question 9, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 15, from the representative Helge André Njåstad to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Districts, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the question is moved and answered before question 21, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 19, from the representative, Mr Wiborg, to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, who is directly responsible. At the request of the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, the question referred for question 7 to be answered by the same Council of State is moved and answered. Question 23, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Economic Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 24, from the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left. At the request of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, the question will be moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e834	‘Do the Council of State intend to ensure that Norwegian banks have similar practices to ensure that persons without a clear identity have access to basic banking services, including digital banking services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e839	Having good access to banking services for everyone, regardless of background or place of residence, is important for people. The Financial Contracts Act therefore provides rules that there is a need for a factual reason to deny customers regular services. At the same time, it is important that banks know who the customers are. Therefore, the Money Laundering Act lays down rules to identify customers and to confirm their identity. In some cases, therefore, it may be right for banks to refuse customers to open an account, for example: where ID documents are fake. This is to have a security in the system. The Financial Supervisory Authority has provided guidance on the Money Laundering Act. Some of the instructions are designed to facilitate as many bank accounts as possible. The guidance also refers to online banking. Among the examples mentioned are non-residents who lack a valid identity from their home country. Financial supervision has also expressed its opinion on the relationship between the Financial Contracts Act and the Money Laundering Act. The representative has received the text of my answer to his written question. Among other things, the Financial Supervisory Authority has indicated that services with certain limitations can be provided to reduce the risk of abuse. Furthermore, financial supervision states that banks have to deal with the implementation of customer actions that meet the minimum requirements, even if they are more costly or burdensome than the service provider’s normal procedures for entering into customer relationships. As underlined in the answer to the written question, of course, I expect the banks to deal with this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e850	The head of the Anti-Whitewashing Department of the Financial Supervisory Authority says that they are concerned that customers are unjustly excluded from the banking system, i.e. that people are exposed to financial exclusion. Recently, today’s Businesses mentioned this issue and pointed out that it is more profitable for banks to reject customers with an undisclosed identity than to make inquiries and background checks – perhaps especially because banks do not make as much money on those who are only looking for basic banking services, such as account and debit cards. Without these banking services, these people are largely excluded from society. In his written reply, the Council of State writes that he expects the banks to deal with the legislation in force. But the problem is to knock, among other things. because of uncertainties today, the same practice is not used. Does the Government's response mean that he will give priority to following up this and ensuring that all banks provide basic and digital banking services to people – including to them without a clear identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e857	It's good that big-time representatives, like elected representatives, raise that kind of issue and question. By lifting it, I challenge my office to respond, and they investigate the state, in this context, for example. in the Financial Supervisory Authority, how practice is, and it makes you think about whether that is something. There are not always regulatory adjustments or the kind of changes needed, there can also be only increased awareness around it, which makes banks see if they take advantage of the regulatory scope of action – which I replied to the representative. I hope it is as little as possible to meet the kind of demarcation issues, because it is important that people can live as normal a life as possible. And then you always have to find the balance, so that on the other hand we don't get abuse, money laundering and crime, which we don't want. But I both believe and hope that the Financial Supervisory Authority has an awareness of this, and that the question that has now come makes you think about whether there are things you can do even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e864	That's exactly what I'm asking for. This is essential for people to be able to participate in society in the same way as everyone else. A consistent banking practice will allow people with no clear identity access to bank accounts, which in turn will strengthen people's motivation to go job hunting. So it is that basic banking services also need to include digital services, because without digital services, no online banking is used, including paid bills, traded online or performed ordinary online banking services. That means that people in 2021 have to pay bills through bank giro or bank, and that using manual services is not only managed but also expensive, and fewer and fewer offer this. Does the Council of State think that this is right, or will he also ensure that banks both understand and offer citizens the same service provision and that this must include digital services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e873	I expect the banks to deal with the legislation applicable to the banking sector, and within it there are also opportunities to take human interests and get things in place. It is also true that we have competition in banking in Norway, so if you experience that you have challenges in one bank, you will try to contact another bank – it may be in different contexts. At the bottom, however, the regulatory framework shall provide for flexibility. Financial supervision is also concerned. I'm glad that the issue is also raised by the representative, which means that our answers and this review also raise awareness of whether there may be things that can be done in an even better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e885	‘The Party of Foreign Ministers was given a majority in the Grand Council in this House to amend the legislation so that contractors do not pay VAT to the State until the dispute is settled. The government was asked to return with the necessary budgetary follow-up as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022. This is a simple matter for the government to sign out, but neither the Solberg nor the Støre government has wanted to comply with the order from Stortinget. When can contractors expect the Council of State to follow up the order from Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e892	Request decision No 163 and 849 for 2020-2021, concerning amendments to the legislation on disputed requirements in the construction industry, have been followed up by the Solberg Government in a report in Prop. 1 LS for 2021-2022, Taxes, levies and duties 2022, Chapter 22. The Solberg government here advises against a change in disputed demands, i.e., with Jan Tore Sanner as State Council. However, the proposal explains how the rules can be designed if the Storting wishes to establish a mechanism in which the obligation to issue sales documents in construction is deferred when a claim is disputed. The amendment may be implemented by an amendment to the rules of the Accounting Regulation on the issue of sales documentation for disputed claims. I register that the representative believes this is easy to sign out. Unfortunately, the world is not as simple as the representative believes it is. Such a change raises questions about the relationship with the international agreement on the granting of State aid, by which Norway is bound. Therefore, it should not be implemented until the measure has been notified and, where appropriate, approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, in accordance with the State aid procedures. This was the conclusion of the Solberg government. The contact the department has had with ESA in the matter suggests that the process can unfortunately be time-consuming. I understand that the scope of the disputed requirements in the construction industry can be challenging. This was also the background to the changes in the legislation on disputed claims in this industry, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. However, disputes about the final settlement in contractual terms of a certain duration and size are not unique for the construction industry. I am prepared to find a solution in this case in line with the Storting decision and will come back with a case when the process with ESA is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e905	I am recording that the Council of State is leaning heavily on the Solberg government's assessments, and I recommend that he continue. It was good bourgeois policy that came from the Solberg government. Financial Policy Spokesperson of the Centre Party, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, who was also the case rapporteur, spoke to the Construction Industry after the case was filed: ‘It is high time such a decision was taken. This should have been resolved in the past." And on the other hand, «To pay VAT to the State before final settlement is an unreasonable device». The representative, Gielsvik, may have been more impatient than I've ever seen before. It is fully possible to implement the scheme, assuming that the scheme is notified by ESA, but I note that the Council of State chooses to push ahead with the Solberg government, the EU, ESA and the civil service. Could it have been introduced subject to notification in ESA?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e922	Both I as Minister of Finance and the Storting must adopt changes we feel confident that can be implemented, if not we can put individual companies and individuals in a difficult situation. That is why I choose to bring forward the international framework we have through the EEA Agreement, so clearly here. If we just do it now, and then it turns out that it's in conflict with the obligations we have, we're creating huge challenges for all the companies that have used the scheme in the meantime. It is about the safety and predictability of enterprises and the construction industry. Those who work in the construction industry need to know that we're going to have a new round. Although I respond formally, the conclusion is that we are going to go a new round to see if this is possible, so that it becomes as difficult as possible for the construction industry with the whole issue of disputed requirements. That's the conclusion and the answer, that you have to go a new round, try again and see if we can manage to do it – something that didn't happen under the previous government, which was also part of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e929	I record that the attitude of the Minister of Finance has changed after he got in position. He was very clear in the election campaign that you have to challenge both EEA and ESA. There is a completely different attitude that you experience today, where you feel that he may have been greatly influenced by the office. That this would be a distortion of competition – it is an entire industry that is underpinned by the introduction of this rule. It is also noted that the representative, Mr Gülsvik, as rapporteur of the case, pointed out to the construction industry that the counter-representations that had come from the Ministry of Finance had been thoroughly attended by the majority of the Committee. One saw that the matter could be clarified in a very simple way after Storting's treatment. I record that the Council of State is pushing ahead with the EU, ESA and the civil service and will not introduce this with the condition that the scheme is notified by ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e942	I am dealing with the international framework, which includes: The Progress Party has been voting for Norway to be bound by. The centre party voted against the framework for which the Progress Party voted, so the Progress Party wanted us to have the framework we are dealing with: the EEA. When you are a State Council, you have to deal with the decisions such as: The Progress Party has contributed to and that we have an EEA agreement. I'm concerned that we're going to go one more round. Even if I don't think it gives me unconditional enthusiasm to go one more round, I want to look at the framework, see if there's anything we can challenge, look at the action space and look at the possibilities. The job both for the magnificence representative and for me as the state council is constantly to look at how we can make improvements for people and businesses in Norway. But if we just adopt that kind of thing and don't have a legal basis for it, we can make things more difficult for businesses and individuals in Norway. I do not want that, and I do not think the representative Mr Strifeldt wants that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e952	‘In the election campaign, the Labour Party used quite a rhetoric against private contributions in welfare, although we know that they make an important difference in many lives, also to supplement and help Nav get people to work. The Hurdal Platform states that the government will facilitate the provision of services to Nav by smaller action providers. Will the Council of State here ensure that both private and non-profit action organisers can contribute?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e959	I'm happy for everyone who reads the Hurdal platform, and when a reads the Hurdal platform, it's important to read all, because if the representative had continued to read to the next point in the platform, he would see that it says the government will «secure the framework conditions for the municipal ownership and the ideal management companies and avoid tendering regimes that centralise and reduce offers». Some of the things we see over time are that the big players have often won out in the open. At the same time, smaller players have found it difficult to compete. And there have also not been so many new ideal action organisers in recent years. The right-wing government must take responsibility for this. We can thus miss out on good solutions for the users. There is some reason why we need to facilitate the provision of Nav to several smaller action organisers. Now the government is following up on the Hurdal platform, and then maybe the representative will be happy to hear that we are looking closer to how smaller players can actually get a proper chance, and that the municipal and ideals are getting more secure of their terms. Users have different needs, they have different challenges. It is also important to be able to provide the various types of action organisers that have varied their offerings, so that the most people are able to get into work. I'm going to see closer to the Nav bid regime. I'm going to take a closer look at the different efforts Nav is doing, for example. How to develop better local solutions for the users. I want cooperation with the ideals to continue and to develop further. This is particularly true of the ideal actors who have expressed the need to be more careful. I would also like to look at specific measures to develop the role and supply of ideals in the field of work and well-being. The most important thing for me and the government will always be that more people come to work. At the same time, this government has also been aware that we are going to carry out a major restructuring in the labour market in order to ensure a stable whole set of Norwegian wage and working conditions. Of course, it will also apply to this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e975	I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses that the most important thing is that more people come to work. Then I think it's very important that we use all the good forces, which the Council of State has in mind, whether it's municipal public, non-profit or private that want to contribute. The reason why I ask the question about the small action organisers, and if the Council of State will contribute to the private participation – often small and local – is that we know that many of the action providers are private, and very many of those who manage to get into work are just getting help from small local businesses who want to contribute. So it's a shame to hear that the Council of State won't be any clearer that private people will also be able to contribute. But then we have to discuss this rhetoric, because in the election campaign there were a lot of people who used hard rhetoric against serious private people who contribute to getting people to work. The welfare profit was used. Jonas Gahr Støre has been clear on his answer there, about what he thinks of that word. So my question is, does the Council of State agree that ‘welfare profitor’ is an unwise word, and will she distance itself from it? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e984	I am happy to be invited to discuss rhetoric, because I see that the representative Stokkebø in this context uses the wording that «all good forces» must be avoided. I have to admit that I often feel that there is a formulation that is used as a kind of synonym for a desire for more commercialization and more privatisation, and then the representative or party does not want to say it directly, and an end to saying 'all good powers'. When one then starts to discuss and drill the substance, sometimes the representative or the right party makes it sound like those who are skeptical about constantly facilitating increased commercialization and privatisation, as well as are against all good forces. It's something I want to take a very clear distance from. I have made it clear that what this government is about to do is to look at the Nav bid regime, and that cooperation with the ideals will continue and develop further, not least that it will be strengthened. Then there are other actors who don't have to assume that their role will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e993	I asked a very simple and very clear question, to which the Prime Minister has previously given an answer, and it was just this word ‘welfare profitor’. I noticed that the Council of State was not within its response. It may not be so strange, because it's a word the council itself has used in the election campaign to mention also the serious ones that contribute to the welfare. For the Right, it is important to put away ideological skyscrapers and rather ask the question that the Council of State was asking at the beginning of its previous answer, and that is, how can you make the most of it so that more people come to work? Then I hope that the new government will put away ideology and skyrocketing, and rather think of solutions where private local small businesses can also contribute. So I want to ask the Council of State again, and I would like to have a concrete and clear answer: does the Council of State think that ‘welfare profitor’ is a good word? And does she distance from the divisive rhetoric? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1000	The representative must take care to ask the question within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1005	I want to remind the representative that when he might not get the answer he wanted, it does not mean that the answer was not clear. I see that the representative wants the government to run around and the blacklist words. I don't think I'm the government or my task. My task is to help more people get to work, to use their abilities and resources. That's what I want to fix. And when we see that one can have an offer regime in Nav that doesn't make it easy for anyone who is willing to strengthen the work to get more people to work, there's a real chance to do that, there's a need to see closer to the Nav bid regime. I encourage the representative to give up the role of a kind of wandering language board and to help people in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1013	This question, from the representative of Sveinung Rotevatn to the Minister of Research and Right Education, will be raised by the representative of Ane Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1018	‘Students’ health and well-being studies show a marked deterioration in the mental health of students in the pandemic keel. Nevertheless, the government chooses to cut the student welfare funds. How will the government fulfill the Hurdals platform’s commitments to strengthen the mental health provision for students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1025	A prerequisite for success as a student is to be good. It is worrying when the latest study on health and well-being among students shows that the proportion of people who report having severe psychiatric disorders is increasing. It is therefore good that questions about the mental health of students are given attention, and I share the representative's commitment to the question. That is why I am also pleased that the government is committed to mental health in the Hurdal platform. Mental health is just as important as physical health, and we're taking this seriously. The last survey was conducted during the coronary epidemic, which has been difficult for many of us. For students, who often live on a little hibernation, it is easy to imagine that it may have been extra difficult – and then on a little hibernation and without social networking and in a city you don't know. Now that society has reopened, and things are becoming more normal also in our educational institutions, there is reason to both believe and hope that the arrows for students' mental health can and will point in the right direction. It is now possible to meet physically, it is possible to get acquainted with fellow students, and you do not have to sit alone on a lodge day in and day out. Students who struggle with mental illness should initially receive the help they need through the ordinary public health service. Student relations must prevent – it is the municipalities and the public that are responsible for the treatment. So to the interaction: it has been clearly communicated that the increased resources for student relations have been temporary as a result of the exceptional situation of many people due to the corona epidemic. I believe that student relations have the financial space needed to strengthen their welfare services. The grant is now at the same level as it was before the epidemic. They have also accumulated significant equity in recent years, with an increase of 2.1 billion. SEK in 2011 to SEK 4,6 billion. in 2020. I would like to stress that the student relations' profits will benefit the student welfare. We closely monitor the development of the mental health of students. In 2022, there will be both a student life-cycle survey and a new health and well-being survey. Together with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I want to assess measures for students in the light of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1040	I'm glad that the Council of State is bringing out little furniture, because, as mentioned, mental health is usually linked to physical health, well-being, well-being, living conditions, and therefore also economics. In the Hurdal platform, the government promises that it will step up the student housing building with targets of 3,000 built dwellings per year. Nevertheless, there is no trace of this in the budget. How does the government plan to increase the rate of student housing expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1045	That's essentially what the government budget left itself contributed to, which is now being treated in the Storting, so that question might as well have been put back. Let me say, however, that the first thing we have to do is build the homes for which money has actually been allocated. Looking at the production of housing in the interconnections, it is, overall, significantly below the level of allocation on which the Storting has invested. It's priority number. one. Then it's going to be raised to a measure of 3,000 dwellings per year. An important part of both the student’s economy and welfare offers is a good housing offer and a good housing offer that is not least reasonable. House rental is the largest single expense Norwegian students have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1054	The last centre party in government was the majority of all government parties to introduce 11 months of study support. Nevertheless, eight years went by without a real increase in student purchasing power, and we had to wait until the left came into government before the students finally got a sore economic boost. Why should we believe in the government this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1059	We have clear ambitions for both the development and construction of student housing – student welfare in a broad sense. I believe that an equity in the relationships of 4.6 billion. It also provides a considerable financial space for the students themselves. This is money that they ultimately own and control. In addition, we have notified – and let me add that we are pleased – that eleven months of study support are in place, and that we are going to continue this targeted through both increased support for full-time students with children and better dental provision for the age group that students in general represent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1067	‘The corona pandemic has reinforced the challenges of mental health among students, as confirmed by both the Corona Commission report and the Student Health and Welfare Survey 2021. Among other things, we can read that more than half of the students state that they are lonely, and the proportion that they say are struggling with severe mental distress has increased to 45 pst. What is the perception of the situation of the Council of State and what is the plan of the Council of State to strengthen the mental health provision of students in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1074	My main view, as an answer to an important problem, is that the pandemic period has been an incredibly demanding time, not least for our students. I believe that for those of us who may be family members and have had more time at home with children and spouses, the situation is very different from that of those students who should have started, who have entered a new place of study, perhaps in a new city, without social networking, and have also lived on a hybel, and most of the teaching has happened online. I think it's easy to understand that there has been an incredibly demanding situation for many. So it is not strange that it is also reflected in the studies to which the representative refers. So luckily, even though the pandemic isn't over, the study sites are at least reopened. It's again normal teaching. There is once again common social interaction, and there is reason both to believe and hope that the situation is different, and that we will look again at the numbers of next year's survey that things have improved significantly. I think it's common to all of us that we hope that the snapshot we got under the pandemic does not become a permanent state. But we don't know that until we've examined it. Two brief comments to: From the government's point of view, we focus very heavily on mental health. Mental health is as important as physical health. It is, however, that it should be followed up and taken care of by the public health service in the usual way. I think we agree on that too. Finally, it is important that interactions take care of their preventive role in developing good welfare services for our students. We believe that they have a good economic space to do so, both through their revenues, grants from the state and a growing and very large equity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1087	Indeed, the equity of interconnections is largely bound up in future construction projects. I believe the Council of State and I agree that it is necessary to build more student homes. Therefore, it is right to maintain equity so that construction projects can be realised, while strengthening welfare services. Many of us have largely returned to our daily lives, but for many of our students, the coronary apathy will have long-lasting aftereffects. Before the summer, the Cheese Committee came up with some recommendations on measures that can be taken in both the short and the long term. Then my question to the Council of State is whether there are any of the recommendations that he sees to be launched in the short or long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1094	It may be, but I would have appreciated very much if the representative could be something more specific on what recommendations she sees she might want us to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1099	I have great respect for the fact that the Council of State has not put itself well inside all the proposals for the sample, because there is a need for general welfare provision, and also for more specific measures. We can come back to it, I would appreciate it if the Council of State could come back at a later stage. Then I choose to take another follow-up question. Given that the state council and the government want to strengthen the mental health service and take care of our students in a good way – that's what we all want – it's funny that you start cutting the funds. And since we share the idea of the importance of caring for the students, how do you think about doing that? Will you strengthen the local economy or the county economy so that we can provide the students with the specialist health service, the student service in higher education and the community health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1106	I think we all have the same commitment to the same goal, which is a good offer, which is also to provide students with the need for good mental health protection. So I think we're going to have a little bit of ice in our stomachs related to the need and extent, just in respect of the fact that the worst rash of the pandemic is now hopefully over, and we all have a slightly more normal everyday life than what we've had in the past. Secondly, it is important to distinguish between the activities of the public health service on the one hand and those of the public health service on the other. So the main direction for the government and for the ministry will be to monitor and not least develop the offers in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the regular health service in Norway. Student relations have a good economy, as I have explained, both through very high equity and high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1115	Then we go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1123	This question, from the representative Lene Westgaard-Halle to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1128	‘The centre party has been clear that they want less competition in parts of the daily food market, and now it is estimated that the milk will be more expensive for ordinary people. Regional workplaces are at risk of being centralised as a result of the sudden withdrawal of distribution grants from the Rørosmeieriet and the Q-Meieriene. The launch came with very short notice and has considerable consequences. Since the appeal against the decision is now on the table of the Council of State, will the Council of State stop the application of the decision until the appeal has been dealt with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1135	I would like to thank Mr Westgaard-Halle for his question. It gives me an opportunity to establish – to the extent that someone should be in doubt – the fact that the Center Party is in favour of competition. And we are definitely for competition in the groceries market. There may be one of the challenges that there is little competition. Of course, we are also in favour of competition in the milk sector – on fair terms. Competition is important for the efficient use of resources in society, and it is important for innovation and product diversity. Although it is not to be concealed that Tine has a strong position in the whole dairy market, I observe that the Q-Meieriene have achieved a significant foothold in the market for drinking milk, with 40-50 pst. market share in the populated areas of South Norway. It's also the segments that are traditionally best paid. I also register that the Rørosmeieriet has become market leader in organic milk. However, it has not been stated that current measures to promote competition in the milk sector are those which, in the future, both promote competition and, at the same time, contribute to profitable milk production throughout the country. We're going to agree that the two, and after every three actors, have received a total of 2 billion since 2007. kr over the price-balancing mechanism as a promotion of competition. After 15 years of competitive promotion, this government believes that the time has come to phase out these mechanisms from the price balancing system. This will not happen overnight, of course, and we want good dialogue with all actors. Before we make any changes, the arrangements shall be thoroughly reviewed, and the actors will be invited to make representations in different parts of the process. In addition, I have already had meetings with most operators in the dairy market, and I look forward to meetings with the Rørosmeieriet now at the beginning of December. The distribution grant is one of three competitive promotions of the price balancing system today. The measures were established following the so-called milk agreement in 2007 and managed by the Directorate-General for Agriculture in accordance with the rules on the milk price equalisation scheme. It appears that a subsidy shall be granted to dairies which, at the discretion of the Directorate-General for Agriculture, have significantly higher distribution costs than Tine. As early as February, the companies received advance notice and that the decision of the Directorate of Agriculture in October could lead to a halt in the payment of the grant should therefore not come as a surprise. The complaint is now with the directorate, who will normally review it and assess the comments of the actors. To the extent that the decisions are maintained, they will then end up on my table. Then I'll go through the directorate's premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1150	The challenge is that it is happening overnight, as the Council of State says it should not. It's already in place. There's no stepping down, but it's already fully implemented. It happened on 1 November, and it was probably announced a few days in advance – a week or two. We already see the consequences. We see that the milk of ordinary people in the country we are so happy with is becoming more expensive. The Consumer Council has also been clear in the matter, and they say that they are concerned about what is happening now. They believe that this weakens competition in the market. It inhibits innovation, and it increases prices. Does the Council of State mean that the Consumer Council is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1157	I think it is important to deal with the rules of procedure we have in the state and in the public sector. It means – point one – that this was announced early in winter. This also means that the actors should be aware that the issue has existed. The second point is that this grant scheme is managed according to exactly the same legislation as the bourgeois government governed the country after eight years. There is neither new legislation nor new practice, no changed policy. Finally, as announced, in so far as this decision is maintained or complained, it will end up on my table, and then I will go into the premises thoroughly and, of course, also carry out a proper procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1162	Now it might have been more natural to take this in the overall review next year, but since the council calls it the Rørosmeieriet, which is in his state, it's a little interesting. The plumbing shop itself – now I’m not going to try it on the dialect – says that they are “charged to the top of the snowy roofs on Røros”. And now the fees are increasing. Does the Council of State think that the little Rørosmeieriet has as effective a distribution as Tine?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1167	I will enter into those assessments when I get the matter on my table, if necessary. That being said, the Rørosmeieriet is an impressive company, which, together with the rest of the food environment at Røros and in the mountain region, has clearly something quite unique: making a rather narrow phenomenon in Norwegian food production quite large. They've been able to establish it all over the country, put in distribution chains and provide value creation and disposal of products, and they've been very, very good at product development. I believe the Rørosmeierie especially and the food environment in the mountain region is something this country has every reason to be proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1172	Then we go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1180	‘The ‘Gamvik model’ has proved to be a popular, simple and effective way to recruit young people into the fishing industry. In Solberg's government's proposal to the state budget, there was therefore a 2 million surplus. kr to a national application scheme based on the Gamvik model. The government, on the other hand, has rejected this in its draft budget. Can the Council of State explain why the government does not see the value of the Gamvik scheme being made available to more young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1187	The Gamvik model, where the municipality rents a boat and supplies it with fishing ships as a guide, is good. The municipality can be proud that they have managed to do this for ten years without earmarked subsidies from the state, and for a time when it has been difficult to be a local politician in the municipality of Norway. When the Youth Fisheries Scheme was introduced in the 1990s, it was intended that coastal youth should have the opportunity to try fishing through a summer job. The number of participants in the juvenile fisheries scheme has increased in the last 10 years. In 2021 568 young people from 86 different municipalities were registered. This is a popular system that I want to continue. In addition, we have a number of other schemes that facilitate recruitment; we allocate school quotas, apprenticeship quotas and a quota bonus to fishermen under 30 years of age. In addition, there is a new scheme in process whereby five fishermen under the age of 30 are to receive an additional quota bonus for a period of five years. It is proposed that the age limit for women should be set at 40 years and that two out of the five quotas should be allocated to women. This system has been being consulted, and the Ministry will receive a recommendation from the Directorate for Fisheries, which we will decide on with a view to introducing from 2022. I can assure the representative that I will continue to work on recruiting the fishing industry and will assess targeted arrangements to contribute to this. With regard to making the Gamvik model available to more young people, the government believes that the proposal to set aside 2 million. kr to a grant scheme for all municipalities in the country is not the way to go. The proposed grant scheme was also not established. The government proposes in the budget a growth in the income of the local government sector of 2.5 billion. kr in addition to the proposals of the Solberg Government. The local authorities will have a significantly larger scope for action and will be able to give priority to supporting the Youth Fisheries Scheme within their budgets, depending on the need for such support in each municipality. The municipality of Gamvik alone receives SEK 1.74 million. kr more than in the Solberg government proposal. Together with the industry, we will work specifically to get even more young people – both boys and girls – to try their way into the profession, and we hope they will see that the fishing profession can be an exciting, good and safe job where it is also possible to do a few dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1206	I am aware that there are other schemes to get young people into the fishing industry, but some of the unique features of the Gamvik model have also been that he recruits young people who do not come from fishing families. This includes, among other things: appeared in an article that NRK Finnmark had on 12 November this year. Does the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea not see the added value in the Gamvik model?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1213	I started my answer by saying that I think the Gamvik model is good. The whole point of the Youth Fishing Scheme, the national scheme that we have had over many years, is to give young people, including young people who are not from a fishing family, the opportunity to participate in fishing and have summer jobs. The Gamvik model was not established. I fear that there can be quite considerable administrative costs around the scheme. So we don't give the municipalities ten times as much as the 2 million. NOK which was proposed, not one hundred times as much as proposed, but NOK 1 250 times as much money at the disposal as proposed in that scheme. I might be a little bit impressed by 28 years as a local government elected, six years in county. I have great respect for the local People's Government and that the local people's elected representatives are able to manage the resources they now receive through the state budget that we look forward to having adopted and rolled out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1220	I note that the Council of State will not comment on the added value of the Gamvik scheme recruiting young people who do not come from fish families. But I have one last question. By referring to the general financial transfers to the municipalities, the Council of State says at the same time that these 16- to 17-year-olds we are talking about will compete for funds intended to go to schools, care for the elderly and other basic municipal services. Does the Council of State think it's a fair competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1225	I have a lot of respect for the local government. I believe that when the municipality of Gamvik, if it submitted the budget to this government, will end up in Stortinget, it will have 1.74 million. kr more to walk with – instead of NOK 200000-300000, which has been the counting on the Gamvik model – it will be a good setup. We have many municipalities in Norway. It is up to individual municipalities to find good arrangements for it. The Gamvik model is good. I don't come here from the pulpit to look into whether the municipality of Gamvik will continue a scheme that has obviously been successful, but I think having a national system, with the bureaucracy that may result from it, is not the right way to go. 2.5 B.C.E. kr more to the municipalities will provide a good space for action for both Gamvik and other municipalities to ensure that the juvenile fishing system, which I want to continue, is exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1233	‘Recently, there have been a number of headlines in the media where there is a problem that more and more fishermen are also becoming fish buyers. This is a development that has occurred in recent years, and there is no obstacle to a fisherman who wants to buy a fish farm and thereby also become a buyer of his own catch. For a purchaser who wants to acquire a ship, it is not as simple, some see ownership of a ship as an opportunity for raw material access. What does the Council of State think about the situation, and does the Council of State see any possibility of legislative changes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1240	It is important for the government that our common fishing resources contribute to activity across the coast, high value creation and stable and full-year jobs. A varied, fishing gear and sustainable fishing fleet are fundamental to achieving this objective. The principle of a fishing fleet has been enshrined in the Norwegian fisheries policy since the old participant law was laid down in 1972. Therefore, the general rule is that only active fishermen can own fishing vessels. In companies that own a fishing vessel, the majority of the shares or parties must be with the person or persons who fulfil the requirement for fishing activity. The activity requirement is set out in Section 6 of the Participant Act and implies that, in order to be allowed to fish for acquisition, he must have fished for at least three of the last five years and remain linked to fishing and catch strength. The consequence of the activity requirement is that a purchaser who has not been an active professional fisherman cannot be authorised to purchase a ship. Derogations may be granted in exceptional cases where commercial and regional considerations so warrant. It has been asked over the years whether it is appropriate to maintain the rule that only active fishermen should own fishing vessels. Alternative governments and magnification have equally fully stated that the right of fishermen to own fishing vessels must be a guiding principle in Norwegian fisheries policy. It appeared from the Granavolden Platform of the Solberg Government that the principles of the Act of Participation should be established. In the Hurdal platform, we have argued that the participant law is firm and remains an important pillar of Norwegian fisheries policy. There is a broad political consensus that this principle should be maintained. It is important for the government to ensure the fleet's stability, predictability and good framework conditions. I therefore see no reason to take any initiatives now to change the participant law in order to weaken today's activity requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1251	Yes, you can see from time to time that there are fish buyers who choose to quit as fish buyers. Perhaps you put someone else in the family who buys and chooses to go to the fishing boat to be registered as a fisherman in the B-leaf and to give yourself access to raw materials. That's what the carrying element is when they do it – they're struggling to get raw material. Then you know that the fish like to swim from, among other things. The Lofoten and the Vesteråln when winter is over, and goes to Finnmark. In this way, most of the fishing industry in these areas is seasonal. But also in the season you can see that on the inside of the Lofoten you have trouble getting raw material because the fish is on the outside and the fishermen want to travel the shortest way. And then you see that a fish buyer can choose such an arrangement where you go in the boat to get raw material access. You create an a-layer and a b-layer. Can't you see that this can also contribute to the creation of full-year jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1258	As far as the representative is concerned about the migration patterns of the fish, I think I can reveal that the government has no current measures to change them. We want a fishing nest fleet, powered by active fishermen. In that case, the law of the participant must be firm. If a fish buyer wants to invest in a fishing vessel, it can enter into the ownership as a minority owner and own up to 49 pst. by the vessel. If you want a higher level of ownership, you have to become a fisherman and meet the objective criteria that apply to a fisherman under the Act of Participation. As I have explained, it is a priority for the government that the participant law should be firm and that the activity requirement in future should also be a guiding principle in the Norwegian fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1267	I fully share the view of the Council of State that it should be the bearer element, but the main essence of this is to look at the possibilities of not creating an a-layer and a b-layer, because it is, as the Council of State is also fully aware, cost-intensive to buy a fishing vessel today, and it is not all fish buyers who are just as good as the ‘b-layer’ to do so. Then you create an a-layer and a b-layer. But the undersigned are most concerned with the seasonal work places we see, especially in our own home country, which both the undersigned and the Council of State come from, Northern Ireland, where you are struggling to create full-year jobs, which makes the young people choose to stand in this industry, and which allows them to go to the bank and take up a loan to buy a house and stay in fisheries-dependent societies. Most of these places are seasonal. Does the Council of State see any possibility that it may at some point be necessary to consider measures to ensure that the industry has access to raw materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1274	Yes. This Council of State sees the need to contribute to the creation of more land-based fisheries, and the fisheries policy that the Workers' Party-Center Party government will present will build up under it. We have announced a marine value creation program in the Hurdals platform. The most important thing is to get the fish on land and call about the social contract that exists, which also includes the concessional trawls. We have also announced that we will look at the possibility that a limited share of future growth in the aquaculture industry can be put at the disposal of rentals for a limited period of time to the whitefish industry, in order to contribute to year-round supply of raw materials. It's an exciting project, which I'll come back to once we've done something more about it. But once again, it is important for all parties in the fishing industry that we find good solutions that make cooperation between fleets and industry the best possible, and that we create as much as possible on land in coastal communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1283	Then we go to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1291	This question, from the representative of Erlend Wiborg to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea as the appropriate expert council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1296	‘For many years the party has been pressing for grinding and solving the challenges with Svinesundsterskkelen. The Swedish authorities have been lukewarm in the past, making it particularly important that Norway continues to press. The Solberg government answered me a question in January this year that the government would come back to Stortinget in the light of the review of the Coastal Works. When will today's government come to Stortinget with this, and what is the government's plan to sharpen the Swinesund stars?"
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1303	The water action assessed in the entrance to Halden will be important for the availability and safety of this water. This applies in particular to ship traffic related to activities at Nexans Halden and Norwegian Forest Saugbruks. The project in the entrance to Halden will involve intervention on both the Norwegian and Swedish sides of the fjord and thus requires permission from the authorities on both sides of the border. As the representative of Wiborg knows, the case is complicated by the fact that the Swedish authorities have previously expressed a certain reservation for the project. It's probably part of the story that makes the Progress Party after seven years in government failed to solve it. It does not make it easier for Iddefjord to have protection status on the Swedish side of the border. On behalf of the Ministry, the Coastal Agency has examined the possibilities for implementing an action application on the Swedish side of the border. There has been a comprehensive and demanding process in which the Swedish Coastal Agency has developed several important clarifications about the further process in Sweden. The coastal works have now submitted a summary of this work to the Ministry in September. This summary shows that there will be a need for political contact between countries to clarify the scope for implementing an application process on the Swedish side of the border. I would therefore like to take the initiative to contact the Swedish authorities with a view to providing the necessary clarifications. I will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner after these clarifications have been made available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1314	I know the story very well, and the Council of State is quite right in saying that much of the challenges lies on the Swedish side, which I am ready to answer in my question, also in what I had in January and what I had in the month of April to May, which the then Councillor Hareide answered. The answer from today's Council of State is relatively similar to the response from the previous Council of State, but I think it is very good that the Council of State now announces that he will make contact, so you can establish it, just to maintain the Norwegian pressure. I am also pleased that the Council of State will, of course, come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. But I'm looking for a little bit more time perspective here, because some of us are, as I said, very impatient in this matter. When can we expect the Council of State to return to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1319	It's probably hard to give a precise answer to that. There is one thing that has been going on for many years, where we see that there is a need for political contact with our Swedish neighbours. I'm willing to take it, but it's hard to stand on the Stockholm pulpit and give it a timeline, as it's not just in my hands how long such clarification can take. But this must be done without unnecessary delays on the part of the Council of State. That's all I have the opportunity to assure you, and then we'll see in time how we can succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1324	Then I look forward to the Council of State starting to establish this contact before the new year, so that we get a little progress in the process. I can assure the Council of State that the Progress Party and I are going to be active in this matter, so I look forward to the Council of State coming back. What I also ask the Council of State to do is not only to establish contact with the Swedish authorities, but also to ensure that from the Norwegian side there is sufficient evidence that can be used to convince the Swedish authorities. There is some political disagreement in Sweden about this issue, as one has an environmental party that strongly rejects development, but then one may have others who can be more positive. As I said, I look forward to the Council of State making contact before the New Year, but I also ask the Council of State to confirm that the Norwegian side will continue to collect knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1331	The Swedish Coastal Agency has already developed an investigation programme, which has been widely consulted both in Norway and Sweden. Depth measurements have been made in fjords on both sides of the border. It provides a good basis for further work on a full impact assessment and subsequent planning in both countries. The Coastal Agency has also had extensive contact with local elected and state authorities in Sweden. This has been important. I have already replied that I will work quickly myself. But what is quite obvious is that if we get a statement that we can carry out an application process, it will probably take two to three years for the investigation and the application process, so we'll probably get over Easter before we can start looking at this matter more easily. But contact will be made, and then we will return to Stortinget in a suitable way when we have more overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1338	Then we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1347	I Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2021-2022 proposes a reduction in the next year's budget of 662 million. kr to the Global Partnership for Education and the halving of Norway’s commitments for the same purpose for the period 2021-2025. A three and What has been the international reaction to the government's cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1352	I would like to thank the representative Schou for her constructive commitment to raising development policy in this Chamber. Education is undoubtedly a decisive tool in the fight against poverty. In classrooms around the world, girls and boys get what they need in order to get a job and build a future for themselves and their communities. That is why the government is proposing an aid budget where we spend 3.4 billion. kr on education, and therefore we are continuing the objective of the Solberg government, which was a doubling of the support from the 2013 level. It's solid. And that's necessary, because the world is now inside an intensely long-term goal in order to achieve what some would say is almost unattainable, namely to eradicate all extreme poverty in eight years. We are also in a time when Norway has been given a new government. That it means new priorities is not new. We share the goals of our predecessors of a world without poverty, and we share the view of many of the tools that need to be used to get there. But we also use our right to use most of the tools that we think work best, such as: are climate adaptation, food production and renewable energy. We don't get away with re-priorities. There is little help with education if the school building itself is destroyed by climate-related storms, and there will be little learning if the children do not have food in their stomachs. One billion people lack access to power and thus reading light. Therefore, our commitment to climate, food and energy will have ring-effects for education as well. That is why we maintain our commitment and efforts to school in crisis situations and in closure. That's what we're explaining when there's reactions to re-priority. We look forward to further working with the Global Partnership for Education, GPE, and we encourage the GPE to work to expand its supply chain. We also encourage all developing countries to mobilise more of their own resources for education, and Norway helps them to do so, both multilaterally and across countries. We also explain that Norway has been one of the largest contributors to the GPE since its establishment, and we will continue to be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1365	The president noticed that the question was something different than what had been sent in advance, and recalls that it should be the same. The representative, Mr Schou, will have the floor again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1370	That's what I thought it was, but that's what it is. What I asked about, did not deal with the answer the council now gave, which is tolerably similar to what came in the spontaneous question hour today, and where there is a read mantra and you do not take into account what is real here, with a massive cut where education is not priority, is not mentioned, and where 662 million. I'll cut it. My question was, and I repeat, what has been the international reaction to the government's cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1379	I have registered that there have been reactions from GPE. I have received a letter from the head of the GPE myself, and the Prime Minister, and I know that the representatives of the GPE have received reactions from representatives of the GPE. I have not received any reactions that I am familiar with, from other donor countries. This may not be so strange, as Norway continues to be a significant donor to GPE. I would also like to point out that formerly the representative of Schou in the spontaneous question hour pointed out that this would involve a breach of obligations. So that's not true. No written contractual obligations have been entered into with the GPE in the range indicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1384	It is alarming that the Council of State is not aware of any other reaction, for they have come in a number of representatives in the Grand Duchy, both from organisations on the African continent and from other organisations involved in and engaged in education in developing countries. Yes, it's a breach. There's a violation of a moral part. One can refer to the legal, but it is therefore a breach of a moral obligation that Norway has had through changing governments for many years, and it is thus alarming. So what the government is proposing is going against an overall decision in the Stortinget as late as this year, in the RNB. Thus, both central GPE, other donor countries and partner countries receiving educational assistance are informed over a period of a few months that Norway first commits to important development assistance, in order to withdraw. What kind of signal does the Council of State think Norway is sending to our countries of cooperation and organisations, affecting our credibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1393	This is true with respect not to report. The moral obligation that Schou refers to may be a expectation of continuing the Right Election Promises, but we are continuing the Right promise of a doubling of education support from 2013. We have to take care of that. We continue all contractual obligations. The major decision to which Schou refers was an authorisation granted to grant up to 3.7 billion. kr to GPE. We use the opportunity to make a substantial contribution to the GPE, but which is completely within the decision taken by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1401	This question, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1406	‘Yesterday, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wrote in a press release in connection with the donor country meeting of Palestine that the Palestinian Authority is facing significant budgetary challenges, including large budget deficits. At the same time, Palestinian Media Watch published an article showing that the Palestinian Authority has used enormous sums to buy over a hundred embassies and residences around the world. Is this a good priority of the Palestinian Authority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1413	While the representative’s question concerns the acquisition of property by the Palestinian Authority over a ten-year period, that press release highlighted the challenging financial situation that the Palestinian Authority, PA, has to deal with right now. This financial situation can only be improved through its own reforms and in cooperation with Israel. The Palestinian Self-Government Authority has been facing financial challenges throughout its lifetime. This is partly due to structural factors. The occupation and fragmentation of the Palestinian area have a significant negative impact on the economy. The Covid-19 pandemic has made it clear that the instruments that the authorities normally have available to stabilise the economy are not available to the Palestinians. The PA cannot conduct an independent monetary policy. The ability to pursue fiscal policies is also limited. External budget support has been important for PA, but this has been considerably reduced in recent years. It would be problematic to have detailed rules governing how the Palestinian Authority uses its own resources if the financial priorities and measures implemented do not conflict with Norwegian or international law or with fundamental values and principles. This has not prevented Norway, along with other donor countries, from criticising the position we believe is contrary to our expectations of sound budgetary management. Norway and other donors experience that the Palestinian Authority has over time demonstrated an increased willingness to implement changes based on critical assessments of its own financial priorities. An example of this is the initiative of the Palestinian Authority to reduce salaries in the budget and to implement other financial and institutional reforms. These come partly as a result of the dialogue with the donor community and were at the centre of the donor country meeting in Oslo this month. Norway expects the self-government authority to continue to pursue a tight fiscal policy, to implement the necessary reforms and to be open to donors about its arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1424	In other words, the government does not really have any kind of authority to control where taxpayers' money goes. We're not going to control the details, as the minister says, and so you don't see the context in how we spend money, and how Palestinian self-government agencies spend the money we give them. The ones about it. It is quite incredible that you cannot understand that you cannot give money, among other things. to Palestinian self-government authorities paying prisoners who have been terrorist and are in Israeli prisons. The reason is that you can't interfere. It's amazing that you can sit and mean it, and that the media don't make any more mistakes about this. The previous government and obviously this government accepts to pay prison wages, despite knowing what money goes there, and despite the fact that it is yours and my taxes paid to terrorists.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1431	The follow-up question went a bit past what was the original question, but the council should get the chance to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1436	I would very much like to answer, because the follow-up question is demonstrably wrong. The money of Norwegian taxpayers does not go to either the prison pay scheme or to the property purchases to which the representative refers. It is true that the Norwegian position is that the purpose of Norwegian assistance to PA is to underpin institution building and state-support institutions, so it is the PA’s prerogative to do its priorities. But I would like to stress that there is no Norwegian money going to expenditure that the representative gives an example in his original question, i.e. the purchase of property abroad. In the case of the prisoner pay scheme, Norway has ongoing dialogue with the self-government authorities on this issue. They are well aware of our positions, and we have been assured that Norwegian funds have not been used for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1443	The truth is that someone's money is used for this purpose – whether it's from that pocket or that pocket, it doesn't matter. If Norway's money goes to one place and the US money goes somewhere else, it's the total that allows you to pay prisoners and terrorists who are in prison. But let's go to UNRWA, which is the only refugee organization that has its own refugee organization in the United Nations. Now there are 5.5 million refugees – that was 700,000 when they started. You're a fugitive all your life. There's no attempt to settle these refugees. The appropriations are increasing, and the number of refugees is increasing every year. Does the government have an idea of how to settle these refugees in neighboring countries, so that they can progress in the situation of Palestinian refugees, instead of distributing this over 70 years, which is the longest who has been refugees in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1450	The President would like to remind you that one should ask follow-up questions about the original question. This went far beyond what was the original question, but the Council of State will have the chance to respond, if the Council of State so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1455	The question of UNRWA goes beyond the original question, and it is also not the constitutional responsibility of this Council of State. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not in anyone's interest that the Palestinian authorities go bankrupt. Not least, Israeli authorities themselves are aware of the need for a financially and institutionally viable PA. Norway will be a supporter of this. This was clearly signaled, also by the Israeli authorities, at the donor country meeting in Oslo last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1465	«The protection of the home consists of 41000 soldiers, of which 37000 are in the territorial structure. For the long-term defence sector plan 2021–2024, the Chief of Defense's professional military council in the two most ambitious options B and A recommended an increase to a total of 42 000 soldiers in the Heimevertet. What are the military-professional reasons for an increase of 7 000 soldiers in the HV area structure in addition to the Defence Manager’s recommendation, as stated by the Hurdal Platform, and why is such a sharp increase in Home Protection given priority to a number of other structural elements that have been given higher priority by the professional military?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1472	The government emphasises that Home Security is an important part of the overall defence capability with a presence throughout the country. This applies both in peace, in crisis and in war and contributes to the defence's ability to understand the situation, to the presence and to the protection of objects in a more demanding threat image. This government is betting on the Home Guard. This is also reflected in the government's proposal to change the state budget for 2022. Today, the protection structure of homes consists of a total of 40,000 soldiers, of which 37 000 in the area structure and 3 000 in the intervention forces. The new measure of government is an increase of 5,000 of the overall structure of Homeland Protection. In order to meet the government's ambition to increase the volume of Homeland Protection and obtain the best possible effect, it would be natural to ask for the Defence Manager's recommendation on how to distribute the increase in the structure of Homeland Protection and how to implement it in time, as well as how to set up the deployment and training of crews and commands in order to achieve the new target for the Homeland Protection Structure. Once the government has made an overall assessment, I will appropriately return to the Stortinget relating to how the construction of the Home Protection System is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1481	Now, Minister of Defense Enoksen is in the lucky situation that he takes over a home protection in a much better constitution than the government of Solberg did. The government of Solberg has proved to have brought home protection a lot of new equipment; the home protection exercises far more strongly now than it did in the red-green period. A HV-soldier with little or no training is a civilian in uniform and nothing more. The question is this: When will the 8,000 new soldiers in the Home Guard area structure be in place? And how will the Minister ensure that 45 000 HV soldiers are as well equipped and trained as an area structure of 37 000?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1488	I repeat, it's a construction from today's total of 40,000 soldiers to 45,000 soldiers who are government ambition. The number that the representative of Riveres is operating on is wrong. It's an expressed objective and a desire to strengthen Home Affairs. We have already done so in the government's proposal to adjust the budget for the next year – we are strengthening Home Protection already in our first fiscal year. We intend to continue that in order to upgrade the Home Protection system so that the Home Protection system can do the job that the government wants it to do. The situation description provided by the representative of the Home Office under the previous red-green government shall be borne by the representative of the Rivers. I see it as positive that the government of Solberg also strengthened the Home Office, but in our opinion not enough. That's why we're moving on to strengthening Home Security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1497	The situation description provided by the representative of the Rivers is fully verifiable, and it can be found in the defence's annual reports. These included: years during the red-green period in which the area structure almost did not practice. But it was the snow that fell last year. Let's agree that today's territorial structure is made up of 37 000 soldiers – therefore there is no doubt that the Storting has adopted it. In 2017, the Ministry of Defence stated that an increase of 7 000 soldiers in Homeland would cost about 1 billion. NOK over 20 years. At that time, the costs of necessary new constructions and installations had not been taken into account nor the costs of weapons and equipment at department level. The question is, how will this amount, which is probably between 1 billion? kr and 2 br. kr, is financed? Is the defence budget to be allocated new funds, or is it to be taken from existing activity through redistribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1506	That's an interesting calculation. If you continue to do that, it's going to be 1.5 billion. 30 years, and of course you can keep doing that. What's interesting is for a year, it's 50 million. kr, about the same as the government has strengthened the Home Protection budget for next year. We have found room for that within the government's new budget framework, and the government will continue to do so. And I'm going to add that it's not about an increase of 8 000, it's about an increase of 5,000, from 40,000 to 45,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1516	«A million plastic bottles are consumed globally, every minute, throughout the year, with annual climate emissions related to plastic bottle production estimated to be below one billion tonnes of CO 2. A report from the World Economic Forum Foundation in 2016 suggested that plastic in 2050 will weigh more than fish in the sea. Can the Council of State explain why it is decided not to include existing forests in the climate accounts, and why not use climate funds and resources to tackle global plastic waste?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1526	We are living in a climate crisis, a natural crisis and a pollution crisis at the same time. We have to work to take care of natural carbon stocks to cut emissions and stop pollution of the sea at the same time. One cannot be set up against the other. It is not true that existing forests are not included in the climate accounts. In Norway’s annual climate reporting to the UN, all forest emissions and inclusions are included in the forest and land use accounts. On the other hand, in the case of Norway’s climate objectives under the Paris Agreement, reducing emissions between 50 and 55 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990, it is true that not all the recording in the forest is taken into account. This is because Norway has such a large net take-up in the forest that it would significantly weaken the level of ambition if we nationally included the entire inclusion in the assessment of our target achievement. Such a calculation would be contrary to the principles of the Paris Agreement on Progression and the highest possible ambition, and also to the method of calculation used in the government of which the party of the representative Nilsen was part. It's actual emission cut and not calculation methods that matter whether we can stop global warming. Furthermore, there is no link between forest inclusion in the climate accounts and the climate and resources available to support action against global plastic waste. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as Norwegian Minister for Climate and Environment, I am also President of the UN Environment Assembly, UNEA, at present. In the next UNEA meeting, it is our plan to start work just to bring about an international Convention against plastic pollution in the sea, and to do so, just like the representative, we have to limit the use of disposable plastic, not least plastic bottles. Norway is therefore very active in global efforts to prevent plastic waste and is therefore working to establish a binding agreement on international law at the Environment Assembly, for which I am President. I believe it is important to facilitate such an agreement in order to establish a framework that requires increasing efforts by countries to combat plastic pollution, which will contribute to increased coordination for more effective and targeted international cooperation. I also want to mention that Norway is at the forefront of collecting plastic bottles. We have one of the world's most well-functioning mortgage systems. Keeping plastics as a material longer in the economy through recycling is an important part of limiting plastic pollution nationally. So this commitment to limiting the emission of plastic to nature, and not least to the sea, I strongly support about. We also have a number of actions related to developing countries to help them reduce their marine pollution through a dedicated assistance programme, which we spent 238 million. kr as late as 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1541	That was a good answer to some of those things, because the plastic in the ocean is very important. There are measures that are very tangible, and there should be very little discussion about the importance of which is measurable. It's reassuring to hear the council say you're betting on it. At the same time, the money cannot be used more than once, so there is a link between the means used to cut greenhouse gas emissions, as the Council of State says, where no account can be taken of the forest, as could be done, and no greater use is made of funds for international plastic control, export of recycling technology and recycling, and not least that there was plastic recycling in Norway – we export it abroad, as the minister knows. Can the Council of State clarify what is most important? Is it most important to achieve climate objectives, and as long as you reach them, is not siphoning so important? Or do you focus on both?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1548	That question is good, and it's easy to answer. We have focus on both. We have to get emissions down, and we have to strengthen nature's ability to be nature and to bind carbon. That's why we also need a natural budget. And we need to bring down pollution – all kinds of pollution, including plastic pollution. With regard to Norway’s own contribution, it is not primarily related to plastic bottles, because there we have quite good recycling systems. This applies to actual wear from rubber tyres and rubber cullet on football courts. I think everyone who has had kids who play football knows that when football clothes get into the washing machine, some microplastics go out into the sea, and it's also a big challenge for us – actually one of the most important sources of plastic pollution. So plastics come in many ways. The plastic we see is problematic, but what we don't see is even more problematic, that is, the microplastic. It goes into the fish and eventually into us and is a very serious problem. But that problem doesn't mean that the other problems I mention are not important. So we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1555	Once again, I'll give you a honeymoon. I think it's good tones and tacts to hear from the government, and that's not the one-sided climate focus you've heard. If you just focus on climate and don't care about the environment, we're equidistant. It's connected. But then the question is again, and the Council of State has confirmed it on my written question earlier, that if we had counted on the forest, corresponding to the EU with the same measure and method of counting forest uptake, we would only have had to cut emissions outside the forest land use sector by 25 pst. At that time, there had been significantly lower ambitions, that is correct, but these resources and resources could have been used for international actions that had the monnet — not cut greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to one day of China’s emissions, as Norway does. Can the Council of State justify the choice of focusing on these costly climate measures instead of more cost-effective environmental measures internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1562	I'm happy to do that. We have agreed with all other countries and work particularly closely with all countries that are similar to us, where we have almost identical climate targets. Nor is it the case in the EU that each country is treating the forest separately. In this case, Sweden and Finland would, for example, approximately completed the entire climate change process. Of course, they do not believe that they are. They have the same emission requirements as other EU countries, even though they have a lot of forests, like us. It would be very wrong, I think, if we were to suddenly break with a long tradition of how we report on our emissions. I would like to stress, as I also mentioned in the written reply to the representative Nilsen earlier, that we have also set ourselves a goal of increasing natural carbon storage in forests, ants and nature, so that we really have two objectives – one to get greenhouse gas emissions down and one to get nature's natural bonding up. The point is that we're all finally going to end up in net zero, and net zero means that we're not going to have more emissions than the ones we capture again through natural and industrial processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1572	‘What concrete county services to the inhabitants of Troms and Finnmark will, in the opinion of the Council of State, be improved as a result of a fragmentation of the county?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1577	All residents, wherever they live in the country, should have a good service offer close to home. The government will facilitate people to live where they want to, by ensuring good basic services throughout the country. The government wants to invest at three levels of government, and county municipalities have an important role to play in Norway. This is also one of the reasons why we are now choosing to strengthen the county economy through the supplementary number of the state budget, where we are suggesting that the free income is increased by 0.5 billion. kr at the top of what was proposed by the Solberg government. It gives total growth in the free income of counties of 0.9 billion. NOK 2022. The Hurdal platform says that we want to look at how we can further strengthen the county authorities' responsibility for solving more tasks. I believe that it is possible to do that within the state structure we have today, and the one that might have to be after the division of coerced county councils applying for it. For me, it is difficult to say anything about whether a fragmentation of Troms and Finnmark will have any significant consequences for the provision of services to the population, either in a positive or negative sense. This will primarily depend on how well you run your business. Moreover, not only the production of services is relevant for the assessment of the state structure. An organisation that brings the county community closer to its inhabitants, communities and businesses can make it better able to capture different needs — and thus find adapted solutions in what is initially a very large geography. And not least local democratic considerations need to be considered. When the population and the elected people do not want a coercive state, it is a desire that must be given great weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1586	Thanks for the answer. I did not hear the Council of State mention any specific services that he believes will be better as a result of the fragmentation, so I will help the Council of State a little bit along the way and ask: What concrete community competence environments do the Council of State think will be strengthened if the Troms and Finnmark county councils are split up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1591	Basically, I am not the one to assess whether today's breakdown or any new breakdown provides the best framework for local and regional development and development of the service offer. Local and regional democracy must do that. I assume that we will have confidence in local democracy's assessments, that we will find for ourselves the best way to organise ourselves in our own business, in cooperation with others. In fact, it must be possible for the individual county to decide for itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1596	I thank you for your answer and will follow up on what the Council of State said in its first response, namely that more tasks that can be added to the regional level will be considered. What are the tasks of the Council of State that the county will be better able to take care of as a result of the fragmentation of the spheres of competence in the regions into smaller areas of competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1601	It is right that we in the Hurdals platform warn that we want to look at how the municipal task portfolio can be strengthened. In concrete terms, we need to get back to it, but an example mentioned in the platform is about tasks that are currently entrusted to the State Manager, except for those relating to control and supervision and soil protection. I have to come back to what kind of tasks it will be relevant to assess in this context, and I will also have dialogue with the county councils about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1609	‘In a letter from the Council of State on 12 November, he gives 10 municipalities and four counties the opportunity to promote the application for a border change under the law of division. The letter states: ‘According to the Government Declaration, the Government will send a case to the Stortinget with a proposal to grant the submitted application from the county council of Troms and Finnmark.’ However, such an application does not exist, only a decision on ‘to prepare a case for an application’. The matter shall be dealt with in December. Does the Council of State consider that it is good administrative practice to deal with an application which is not available?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1616	On 25 June 2021, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs received a letter from the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark concerning the following decisions in the county council: ‘Trams and Finnmark county councils are asking Stortinget to start the division of Troms and Finnmark county councils as soon as possible, cf. Order of the Chamber in Case 10/20.’ This letter was sent to several, including Stortinget. I believe that this letter must be understood as an application for division from Troms and Finnmark County. According to the government statement, the government will send a case to the Stortinget with a proposal to grant the submitted application from the county council of Troms and Finnmark. The government provides the same timetable for Troms and Finnmark sharing as for other possible district divisions. In order for the Storting to have a well-informed case when a decision is to be taken, the municipality of Troms and Finnmark must also submit an investigation to support the application for division by 1 March 2022. This will be part of the basis when I plan to return with a proposition to Stortinget in the spring of 2022 on the sharing of coercive states that have applied for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1630	In the letter sent to the four counties concerned, the Council of State is very careful that an application for division should address the consequences of a division for, among others. social development and services for the population. In other words, the county is expected to provide more and more benefits than maintaining the region. It is expected that a point of clear advantages by dividing up Troms and Finnmark if sharing becomes a conclusion of the investigation. It may be the Council of State sharing my considerations, but I am convinced that if it turns out that the division of Troms and Finnmark does not give clear conclusions that it will serve the inhabitants to a greater extent than today, there will be obvious reasons why there will be no basis for allowing a division of Troms and Finnmark. I hope, however, that the Council of State can give a reassuring answer regarding parts of my considerations. Then I must also be allowed to say that I think it is a little strange that a long-term rapporteur thinks that it is a straightforward enough case-handling thing that has happened until now, with just giving signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1637	First, I would like to point out that the municipality of Troms and Finnmark also sent on 14 August 2020 a letter to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation entitled Application to split up the municipality of Troms and Finnmark, and referred to the decision of the county council at that time. That application was also referred to in the Ministry's Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021, under the heading Application for the division of Troms and Finnmark County Municipality. In several rounds, the county council has clearly stated that you want a division. I believe that from that point of view, we have had a good basis for considering this as an application. I also think that it can hardly be seen as any worse application as a basis for a decision than the one when the coercion took place. It wasn't exactly after an application either, it was quite the opposite after a decision in Finnmark County that they wanted to survive as their own county municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1644	I am a little surprised by the Council of State's response regarding the law of division, but now it remains until further notice. Today's eleven larger, stronger and fewer regions have been given responsibility for 49 small and large tasks, as a first part of the adopted regional reform in 2017. The basis for a minimum size in the regions is a population of around 240 000, in order to ensure broad and good competence in all fields and an economy that gives financial muscles to the eleven counties to develop the region also in view of investments in critical infrastructure. A division of Troms and Finnmark will provide Norway with two small counties, with 168 000 and 74 000 inhabitants respectively, with a possible adjustment in view of the municipalities of Finnmark wishing to belong to new Troms administrative and political. What does the Council of State think is most realistic and likely — that two small county municipalities will do better and keep services at the same level as today, or with a common region, responsibility and development in what is one of the most important geographical locations? It's also interesting in terms of individual factors. Will the Council of State maintain the generalist principle of Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1659	The government trusts that the local political bodies, the people elected in Troms and Finnmark, consider how best to organise themselves to respond to the needs of the part of the country – in terms of solving problems, in terms of regional development, and in terms of caring for the democracy and democratic arena that a county municipality should also be. We're going to come back to the further development of new tasks, but I can't see that there was anything in the transfer of tasks to the county councils that happened during the previous government, which added and justified that you had to have larger counties or regions in order to take on those tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1669	‘The government has used the last few weeks to advertise and promote the reversal of the municipal reform, instead of presenting proposals that contribute to the growth and development of municipalities and how to continue to provide good services to citizens. Will the Council of State facilitate the continuation of the municipal reform and support the municipalities involved in the merger process with its implementation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1676	The government has mainly used the forces over the last few weeks to make changes to the Solberg government budget to strengthen the economy of all its municipalities. The aim is precisely to facilitate growth and development across the country and to provide a good starting point for providing good services. The government's draft government budget will provide the local government with an increased financial space of 3 billion. kr next year. That is a total amount higher than the years 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021. The government is engaged in a living local democracy with good basic services throughout the country. All residents, wherever they live in the country, should have a good service offer in their community. There are considerable differences between municipalities in the challenges they face. Local self-government provides room for tailor-made solutions for each community, and it is the municipalities themselves that are best able to assess how challenges should be addressed in a way that is adapted to their municipality, including assessing their own future as an independent entity or as part of something larger. The municipal reform was the Solberg government's project, and we do not want to continue this reform. Direct and indirect coercion of municipal mergers was the right-wing government's policy, not ours. However, initiatives and discussions on voluntary community mergers can be initiated between them in different places in the country. If you see yourself in a municipality best served to join others, I would like to have a positive basic attitude to it and handle an application in line with the provisions of the law of division.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1685	I have to pay tribute to the Council of State for having at least partially chosen to answer the question. It's very good to get a clarification, when the Central Party Council now says straight away that you don't want to further develop the municipal reform. This means that the Central Party is more concerned that the Norway Map should look like the 1960s, and that they do not see that it is not about changing Norway. We're doing these things because Norway is changing. The Council of State boasted a bit of strengthening the municipal budget. I have to remind you that there have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list, and not more than when his own party was in government. But I would like to ask a follow-up question: why does the government cut in terms of expenditure and subsidies that local authorities can receive in connection with community mergers, if the basic attitude is said to be positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1692	I just want to make it clear that this is what is about direct and indirect coercion related to community mergers, which was central to the local reform of the Solberg government, which we do not want to continue. The partitioning law says something about the aid that might come if someone wants to merge. And as I said, I have a basic positive attitude if, after wise, good local political processes, you find that you're best served to join other municipalities. In this case, the partitioning law says something about what will happen then, and it says here that when merging, the State will provide partial compensation for property costs directly linked to those processes, and during a transitional period, it will also provide compensation for the loss of framework grants. Then one will base it on if there are such things, but one is not familiar with it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1697	We hear a government council that has no ambitions even for what you want with Kommune-Norway. This is a wait-and-see attitude: if the municipalities find out for themselves. Of course, we want the municipalities to figure it out themselves, and of course we want there to be good democratic processes in the community. But we have to have a government that wants to facilitate us getting these debates up, which sees that the most important thing is not where the City Hall is, but how close the services are, and the quality of those services. But it's quite okay, it's a fair thing to have a different attitude than the Right in this case. We believe that it would not be right to continue with the map that we have had in Norway since the 1960s, that there was a need for reform. We have gone from over 420 municipalities down to 356 municipalities, and I think the council must admit that it was not a forced reform. It was primarily based on volunteering and the desire of citizens and local politicians for better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1704	I have ambitions on behalf of the municipal sector, but my ambitions are different from those of the representative Kapur, who is attacking the municipal structure. I primarily have ambitions for the services to be provided by the municipalities and county councils, and that is why we have given so much attention to strengthening the municipalities and county councils' finances, precisely because we want a better service provision around the country. I am very comfortable being one of those who is at the forefront of such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1709	Question 15 will be answered later. So we go to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1717	‘The government has been in favour of a dissolution of the municipality of Troms and Finnmark, both in the Hurdal platform and also in letters to the county council of Troms and Finnmark County. Could the Council of State describe the concrete plan of the Government for the dissolution of the Municipality of Troms and Finnmark, in particular on points of time perspective, the investigation of the consequences and the costs of dissolution, but also the economic situation in which Troms and Finnmark will be after dissolution?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1724	The Government will facilitate the entry into force of new counties and municipalities from 1 January 2024. This is the earliest possible and the best time for new county municipalities and municipalities to enter into force. New county councils and local councils could then be elected by the ordinary municipal government and county councils in the autumn of 2023. Sharing of county municipalities is a national, regulated process. It is the Stortinget that makes decisions on the division of counties, cf. Article 5 of the law of division. In order to enter into force on 1 January 2024, the Stortinget must take a decision on the amended counties by the summer of 2022. A formal decision on summer 2022 sharing is necessary, inter alia: to have sufficient time to prepare for election implementation and changes in state registers as a result of changes in the county classification. The timetable also allows political parties to have a predictable nomination process for the municipal government and county elections in 2023 and facilitates the establishment of the number of men and other technical solutions for the election implementation. In order for the government to promote a proposition on changes in the division and changes in law in the spring of 2022, in order for the Stortinge to take the necessary decisions by the summer of 2022, merged county municipalities must investigate and submit an application to the department for division by 1 March 2022. I have sent a letter to the county council with more information about this. The process and timetable for the sharing of coercive counties also apply to Troms and Finnmark. The municipality of Troms and Finnmark must therefore submit an investigation supporting the application by 1 March 2022. I stress that the deadline of 1 March 2022 is set for the Ministry to present a well-informed case to the Stortinget in the spring of 2022. The timetable assumes that Stortinget will deal with the matter by the summer of 2022. Before decisions on divisions can enter into force, much work must be done at all levels of government. Changes need to be made to state registers, to the matrix and to the calculation of distribution through the income system of the new counties. This is important for example: to ensure the payment of welfare schemes, tax collection, coordination of emergency situations, etc. In the case of any additional costs related to sharing, the government will contribute financially in an agreed and appropriate manner. Although this timetable involves limited deadlines for both municipalities, county councils and the state, there will be sufficient time for, among other things. carrying out the investigation and any hearings, taking formal decisions and preparing the establishment of the new municipalities and counties until 1 January 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1741	I think it's a little strange that when you ask about a concrete plan, the only thing you're concerned about from the government is a time perspective. Not once does the Council mention, for example, the economy and the welfare services of the inhabitants, which are, in fact, the most important. In letters to the merged county councils on 12 November, the Council of State explains how the municipality of Troms and Finnmark is to deal with the division law, as the Council of State said, specifically related to the application and investigation of the division of the county. The investigation shall include, inter alia: justify how services to the citizens of Troms and Finnmark will be improved by a breakdown. However, in a letter dated 28 October, the Council of State pre-approves of the dissolution of the municipality of Troms and Finnmark without taking into account how the services for the inhabitants should improve. Can the Council of State explain its view of the decisions which it is necessary to take prior to any division by Troms and Finnmark and whether the Council of State considers that it has received such a reasoned request from the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1750	In the letter to which the representative refers, from 28 October, entitled ‘On the decisions of the Troms and Finnmark County Council to initiate the division of the Troms and Finnmark County Municipality’, I refer to the decision taken by the county council, and write that the government will «facilitate the division of coercive counties and municipalities, which submit an application by decision of the county council or local council respectively». I also write that: ‘The Government Declaration states that the Government will send a case to the Stortinget proposing to grant the application submitted: [[...]] And finally: ‘The government will shortly provide information on how the work on the sharing of coercive municipalities and counties is organised.’ That letter I sent out. And then I just referred to the request for division and the law of division. The application shall be in writing and justified and shall include proposals for new municipal borders, as set out in the Annex. Section 8 of the zoning Act and also contains proposals for municipality names. And then there's no very specific guidance in the law on what an investigation about sharing should contain.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1770	That letter says that the government will propose to grant the application from the municipality of Troms and Finnmark when it comes to the government, and will submit it to the Stortinget. In that case, an application has actually been pre-approved which does not justify how the welfare services of the population should be improved. I would also like to ask another question to the Council of State, for 2 November I asked the Council of State whether the government would approve any application from Alta to be part of the County of Troms after a possible dissolution of the municipality of Troms and Finnmark County. In his reply from the Council of State on 9 November, he said that he would not go into the situation of Alta in concrete terms. It is all right, but the Council of State must be able to have a principle of whether municipalities themselves should be allowed to determine county membership, especially when it is stated in the Hurdal platform that any aggregations should be based on volunteering. Will the government approve applications from municipalities that themselves wish to be in a different state than they were before the coup d'état, in the event of dissolution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1779	I believe that the question of the sharing of Troms and Finnmark versus the exchange of states for Alta, if it becomes division, are two very different things. After all, Troms and Finnmark County have clearly stated that they want to be reworked on the coercion that the previous government was behind. In Alta, there's a hypothetical problem. I have not received an application from the municipality of Alta for the replacement of states if Troms and Finnmark are shared. Therefore, I do not think it is right for me to go into it in advance and give an idea of what will happen to any application that might come. I will decide if it should be on my table. For the time being, we have not received any such application.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1789	‘The Council of State does not see the need for a wholesale treatment of E39 Stord-Os. The government has led the State Road Administration to continue its work with a state regulatory plan based on the adopted municipal sub-plan for the central concept. Nevertheless, there are other aspects of the project that are interesting. Here I am thinking primarily of how the State Road Service will work within the experimental system of early involvement, as this represents, and E6 Fauske–Mørsvikbotn. How will the Council of State follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1796	The municipal sub-plan for E39 Stord–Os has been adopted, and the regulatory plan has come very far. Early involvement is therefore not relevant where advisers and contractors draw up a regulatory plan in a joint contract. Work on the contract and implementation strategy for the project has started, but has not yet been definitively defined. Instead, a strategy has been put in place whereby the State Road Administration is likely to select total contractor prices and use prequalification with subsequent competitive dialogue as a form of acquisition. However, other forms of contract may be involved in certain contracts. The State Road Service provides for early and close dialogue with the market in the selection of the contract form, the size of contracts and the question of how best to facilitate the optimal implementation of the project, before defining the final contract and implementation strategy. In the autumn of 2021, the Swedish Road Administration proposes that business days be completed with contractors, consultants and project suppliers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1803	I thank you for your answer. However, this scheme opens up development cooperation in innovation, which is a significant development potential for Norwegian industry in such a project. In this project, we are familiar with an initiative from Norsk Hydro mfl. which favours the use of Norwegian-produced aluminium-climate production. It provides a short-range product from production to user, and it is such an aspect. Does the Council agree that the State Road Service must also be able to look at such possibilities in the further planning of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1810	I assume that the State Road Service will constantly look for ways to reduce costs and increase the implementation power of the project. To the extent that it can contribute to such development, the Council of State is not against it. But this is probably a little bit too detailed for me to be able to respond specifically to it in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1815	The government has, among other things, in the Hurdal platform, very ambitious targets for green conversion, but also for non-oil and gas-related export rights, and that is good. The supplier industry is looking for new business areas that can evolve towards the export market. We would like to keep local access to the projects with large employment, value creation and tax effects. Does the Council of State see that innovation in infrastructure can also become an important contributor to achieving these ambitious goals? And in that case, how will he stimulate such an exciting initiative, so that the planes find their way from the drawing board to a reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1822	There's an exciting perspective taken up by the representative here. Like the representative, we have been concerned about how we can contribute to local value creation with the major projects we have in Norway, especially in the transport sector, so we agree that we need to facilitate this in the best possible way. That's how you set up the contract, of course, an important tool in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1830	«The representative Frank Sve, the Progress Party, has stated in various media that it is now the Workers' Party and the Center Party that govern, and what they are actually performing is a minimal cut in the ferry prices of about 5 pst. real. Is this claim incorrect, and what is the nominal price development of ferries with the Workers' Party and the Central Party in government compared to the Right Government's proposal for the State Budget and when the Progress Party had the Minister for Transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1837	I have had relatively many questions about ferry tariffs in the weeks I have been Minister of Transport, and those questions have mostly been about tariff reductions after the Stortinge made its decision in ours to halve the ferry tariffs. In the period when the Progress Party had the Minister of Transport, the prices of the tariff regulators of the national road ferry service increased by a nominal of about 30 p.m., actually about 11 p.m. more than the consumer price index. These Regulations are applicable to the vast majority of ferry services in Norway, also for state-run ferry services. The Government's proposal, in addition to the Solberg Government's draft budget, provides for the reduction of tariffs by 11.7 p.m. For New Year's, the tariffs will be 30 pst. lower for travellers than the tariffs for the first half of 2021. By comparison, the tariffs at the turn of the year would increase by 12.7 pst. for the travelers on the proposals of the Solberg Government to the State budget had been adopted. So I can verify that 5 pst. is not a right number.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1846	In Norway, we have a fundamental respect across different parties. It can go hard in the hall, but we meet as good colleagues afterwards. An unwritten contract is that, despite political differences, one treats one another with fundamental respect, and that there are certain means of refraining from the debate. Some of these unwritten rules are that one does not try to undermine the very facts behind our political priorities, that one can disagree with the priorities, but that one does not try to doubt the real economic impact of a crown grant. In ferry cases, we see that this principle has unfortunately been challenged, but it is reassuring to hear that the Minister for Transport is now clearing up all doubts and establishing the power of the Workers' Party and the Centre to reduce ferry prices throughout Norway. Does the Minister for Transport agree that fundamental respect in the political system is important?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1851	Yes, I agree, of course, that in all political communication and debate, the facts should be dealt with to the greatest extent possible. I am also pleased to say that with what the government has now presented to the Stortinget, we have taken a significant step towards meeting the objective we have, namely that we will have a halving of the ferry charges based on level 1 January 2021 during the four-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1856	Thank you for that clarification. I would then like to thank, on behalf of ferry passengers throughout the coast of Norway, for the efforts made by the Minister for Transport Nygård and the Government to reduce ferry tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1861	I just want to thank you for getting some praise on this platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1866	Question 19 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1880	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present, as far as the President can see. It is very regrettable that the Council of State sits here and waits and the questioner doesn't show up, but that's the way it is. So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1889	This question, from the representative Helge André Njåstad to the Minister for Local and District Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1894	My question is the following, and I start with a quote from NRK: ‘It’s inappropriate for the state to act like this’, says the chairman of Stjørdal, Ivar Vigdenes, the Center Party, to the NRK. The background is that both the outgoing and the current government want to change the playerele for a trial project between the state and the municipalities with short notice. Does Vigdenes have a point in saying that this could mean that the trust from Kommune-Noreg in participating in a project is reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1903	Trials of state funding of care services have been ongoing since 2016 and were due to end after three years. In the state budget for 2022, the previous government proposed to close the trial one year earlier than expected. In this case, it has been important for me to listen to the eleven municipalities concerned, and political leadership in the department has therefore held a separate meeting with them. However, we have always believed that this way of financing care services is unfortunate. When the country takes over the financing of a sector, municipalities are deprived of the possibility to prioritise themselves the resources of sectors where the need is greatest and to organise care for the elderly according to local conditions. Evaluation of the experiment has also shown that positive effects are related to methodology and user involvement, not to the funding mechanism itself. Instead of investing in a narrow performance project, we would rather strengthen the care of the elderly in all the municipalities of the country. The Government has therefore proposed to increase the free income of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr more than that contained in the budget of the Solberg Government. We want to bet on the employees and make sure that older people get to live in their own homes as long as they can and will. We do not rule out assessing mechanisms to strengthen care for the elderly, but taking over the entire financial responsibility, which this attempt is based on, is not in line with government policy. In connection with the termination of the experiment, the municipalities concerned will receive 60 pst. of the income premium in 2022 and 40 p.m. in 2023, as a decelerating. The Government has also proposed that the use of unused funds from the activity-based financing should be extended by the provision to municipalities of these funds for a further year, i.e. out 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1914	Now the government did not answer my question, namely that the state is changing the game rules and cutting back on the project, affecting the trust of the municipalities to the state. I think that in the future local authorities may refuse to deal with the state as a party to the conversation and as a partner. Does the chairman of the state council have a point that changing the playerele from state to municipality can affect the long-term trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1919	Then it is relevant to ask the question: Who is responsible for that? This is a project that the Progress Party is the only party on the Stortinget that wants. The party of progress was a party of government for seven out of the last eight years. This is a project that I feel the Progress Party owns, and the last year of the previous eight-year period, the Progress Party made sure that the Solberg government was seated and adopted its state budget. I believe that the Progress Party bears a heavy responsibility here to maintain an agreement with these municipalities. I think it is unreasonable to expect that a new government that has never had this as its policy would find this money, even if the Right, Left and Christian People's Party were not able to give priority to it and maintain the commitment that the Progress Party has actually made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1924	The Council of State points out that only the Progress Party is occupied by the elderly in these eleven municipalities, but we all have a great responsibility that the Stortinget and the government can deal with municipalities in such a way that the municipalities have confidence in them. It is quite wrong for a new government to blame the Progress Party for not getting it into place. The eleven municipalities contacted the government to find a solution. They have used strong words against the state, and now choose one to owe to the Progress Party so that one does not meet these municipalities. Can the Council of State confirm that these eleven municipalities are getting less money for next year? Self with 2.5 billion. These municipalities will have a budgetary crisis, and this is something the government does with insight and will. They're in debt to the Progress Party. I'm recording that, but those who really get the bill are the older ones in these municipalities, who will now experience that their municipalities have a budgetary crisis and are forced to start cutting. That's the first thing that happens on the watch of the new government when it concerns the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1929	I do not agree with the representative Njåstad that it is only the Progress Party that is concerned with the care of the elderly in these eleven municipalities. The government has strengthened the municipal economy by 2.5 billion. kr to all municipalities in Norway. That's what's the framework for providing the best possible care for the elderly, and here we've added. Then I understand that there is going to be a difficult situation for these experimental municipalities, which have been involved in an experiment. We have done what we can within our policies to ensure a slowdown, and in order to also have flexibility in the system in place, relating to spending savings for another year. That is what lies within our mandate and our policy, and we have done so. Then perhaps the Progress Party must ensure that their policies are implemented, even when they provide support for a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1938	Let's move on to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1946	‘Both mental health and getting more people to work have been promoted as something the Workers’ Party would bet on if they joined the government. Can the State Council of the Workers' Party explain how cut their $15 million? kr till Fontenehus fits into this bet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1953	I would first like to say that I disagree with the description of this as a cut. In the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2021, it was decided to increase the allocation to the font houses by 10 million. kr. This appropriation was intended to enable the fountains to maintain their offerings and activities in spite of strict measures to protect infection and a very unpredictable pandemic situation. The purpose of this appropriation was therefore to ensure the provision and activities of the already established font houses, not to establish new houses. These funds have been passed on in our draft budget. The proposal from the previous government to grant an additional 15 million. kr to the fountain houses we have proposed not to continue. It will not have a significant impact on the established font houses, but it will mean less room for new start-ups in 2022. Nevertheless, the grant scheme has been designed to shorten the grant for each font house during the grant period, which means that it will gradually be possible to include new houses in the scheme through the grant management. We have proposed to give priority to other mental health measures in our draft budget. These measures will help to increase the activity and employment of people with mental distress and suffering. Among the proposals are 44 million. for actions such as individual job support and job-mastering follow-up in 2022. We're also proposing $40 million. to strengthen work on the establishment of several multi-disciplinary and outreach FACT Youth, ACT and FACT teams for children, young people and adults with long-standing and complex needs. Work-oriented follow-up and activity are key objectives of these teams in their work methodology. In cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, work is also under way on individual job support aimed at young people under 30 years of age. The goal is to get more people to work, and that's a goal that stands out for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1964	When you take away $15 million. kr, it's a cut -- we can call it what it actually is. This merges into the sequence of things for which the Workers' Party was in opposition, and which they are now suddenly opposed. And I'm sorry that I'm saying that, but it seems like you've been systematically going in to remove projects that the Solberg government has been committed to, precisely because they were initiated by the Solberg government. Now it is cut into assistance and education for girls, and in our area in particular: Men in health, security housing for the elderly, font houses, the contact family system, etc. I want to ask the Council of State how they went to work to find places they wanted to cut in the state budget, because right now I'm going to admit that it looks quite focused, and really a little petty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1971	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1976	I don't want to call it petty to strengthen the hospitals by 700 million. kr, and the basic financing in particular. In the situation they're in now, there's a serious need for funds. It also makes it possible to prioritise mental health protection. I don't think it's petty to strengthen the mental health service for children and young people by 50 million. kr. I do not think it is petty to strengthen the recruitment of specialist nurses by 50 million. kr. I do not think it is petty to strengthen the fixed medical system by 50 million. kr in recruiters. I just want to repeat that the fountains that are up and working today will not be cut. But the increased bet that the Solberg government let in, we've cut, that's right. Then we have other measures in a larger sum and a larger bet, among other things. the ones I mentioned, as individual job support, which is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1983	This really underscores a little of my point, because that's of course what this government is doing, which is good – just as I'm going to think there are also things the previous government did, which the new government and the new health minister think are good. And it's not because of me it's a shame that it's cut in fountain houses, Men in health, contact family arrangements and education for girls in poor parts of the world, it's because of the people who work on this. It's because of young people who get help for work training and education, and who have mental disorders, it's a shame it's cut in the fountain house. That's because of, among other things, a sex-shared labour market it is a pity that there is a cut in Men in Health. I believe, however, that it looks as if you have gone quite so focused on the work, and I think it is a pity because there are intentions and solutions that a total collapse was behind, and where the Workers' Party has now suddenly turned upside down. Fontenehus is a good example. So even if today's fountain houses are standing, they're planning to create new ones in a lot of municipalities that they don't now get the opportunity because of the new government's cut of 15 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e1990	The strengths we have placed on the health budget in the supplementary letter, if the representative Bruflot can make an estimate there, and I think that the representative Bruflot has on the repertoire, are reinforcements that are not primarily financed by less cuts. Then we've done some repriorities, but the profile contained in the supplemental letter, we think, reflects a priority of what's most urgent now: increasing basic funding in hospitals, so that they can prioritize mental health protection against somatic diseases. It's been a challenge for eight years with the Right in government that you haven't done it. We strengthen children’s and young people’s mental health services, we strengthen the fixed medical system, and we also ensure that future health professionals are recruited through a recruitment package. We believe that that has been the right priorities and the most urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2000	‘The Beijing communiqué commits systematic human rights violations against minorities and democrats in its own country. Will the Council of State take the initiative of the Norwegian Winter-OL diplomatic boycott in Beijing in 2022 in order to sabotage the regime’s attempts to wash its own human rights violations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2007	Norwegian authorities are very concerned about the human rights situation in China, especially in Xinjiang and Hong Kong. This has been regularly addressed in the dialogue with the Chinese authorities and the United Nations in recent years. We'll keep doing that. I also refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who answered questions from the representative of Melby about the situation in Hong Kong in October. This government does not consider the question of diplomatic boycott in any way other than the government that resigned earlier in the fall, of which the representative Melby was known. Norway has no tradition of diplomatic boycott of sporting events. Now it's like covid-19 will put a strong mark on these games, as the pandemic did during the games in Tokyo this summer. It is essential that the international press carry out its work unhindered within the limits imposed by the rules on the protection of disease during toys. No decision has yet been taken on how Norway should be represented in Beijing. It'll be cleared soon. But it will be natural for a large winter sports nation like Norway to have presence to support our top athletes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2016	At any rate, I would like to stress that in my time in the government there was no question of diplomatic boycott being discussed. There is a development here that I believe gives reason to make a new assessment of the case. It is no news that Chinese authorities commit human rights violations, but for example. The disappearance of the tennis star Peng Shuai, I believe, is a matter which means that you should take a new discussion, take a new round of government. Now the public has seen pictures of Peng in conversation with the IOC manager. There are many who are not yet reassured – that the Chinese tennis star is actually free and has the opportunity to do what she wants. So my question is really, what is it that you in today's government do a new assessment of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2021	I share Melby's concern. As I said in my initial answer, the government and Norwegian authorities are very concerned about the human rights situation in China. This is also what the Norwegian authorities have addressed and address with the Chinese in the dialogue with Chinese authorities, including in multilateral forums, such as the UN. We're going to keep doing that. So, as the representative says, there's nothing new that the human rights situation in China is worrying. But neither is it that this government assesses the situation differently from the previous one. So the question of diplomatic boycott is not an instrument that this government believes in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2028	An argument that is really linked to diplomatic boikott is that it will have relatively little effect if Norway is the only country that does. But now the President of the United States, Joe Biden, has promised to look at the possibility of such an approach on the part of the United States and that he wants to raise it internationally. The question is whether this is a broader alliance and whether there are several countries that actually consider a diplomatic boycott. Will Norway continue to insist on being among the countries that send politicians and other authorities to Beijing-OL?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2033	My answer is the same. In line with the previous government, as the representative Melby put in, this government has more faith in dialogue than in boycott as a tool for change. The human rights situation in China is worrying. This is also followed up by Norway in our dialogue. We do not regard it as relevant with boikot as an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2047	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Question 24 has already been answered, and we will then proceed to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2057	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘In the last issue of the Police Forum, we can read that 34 out of 104 rapporteurs without a police office today want to set up a place of employment in their municipality. Since the Council of State has previously said that the wishes of the municipalities should be taken into account when setting up new police posts, we can then assume that the 20 new police posts will be established among the 34 municipalities mentioned on page 35 of the Police Forum No. 11 2021?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2066	The government wants to strengthen the local police throughout the country, including by setting up 20 new places of employment, in addition to the fact that we believe there is a need for more policemen where people live. The work on 20 new sites is a priority task for the next four years, which is the period covered by the Hurdal Platform. I have noticed the article in the Police Forum where several rapporteurs state that they want the police to be more present in their municipality, and 34 out of 101 rapporteurs want the government to establish a place of employment in their municipality. In this area, however, it is important that we do a thorough job, as I also have the black representative in the past. Work on the further process of around 20 new posts will start in 2022. The nearest time I'm going to use to lay the foundation. New sites may be set up where there is a wish for them locally, or where geographical factors or the image of crime so warrant. We need to lay a good factual foundation for the choices we make. I am therefore going to stress that we need to develop objective criteria that will be used as part of the work. In order to ensure better prevention and faster response to serious incidents, it is important that local police throughout the country be strengthened. We need to take the time to do this properly, have good dialogue with the parties involved and those affected by the changes in the police reform, and in particular the municipalities and the police. I'm busy listening carefully to those who know local conditions, who stand in everyday life out there, and come back to how we're going to implement this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2077	The Minister of Justice cannot confirm that the list in the Police Forum with rapporteurs who actually want to be in office will prevail. But at the same time, we can assume that the municipalities that the Police Forum today says they don't want a new police office, can still get a police office. Will the Minister of Justice establish a police office in municipalities where the rapporteurs have said that one does not have a wish to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2082	As I said, we're going to look at new places of service where there's a local desire for it, or where geographic conditions or crime scene warrant it. There are things that will be included in an overall assessment. I think it's an interesting article the police forum has made, and it's interesting to read it. Among other things, the article states that more people experience the police as less visible after the reform. That's what I think is signals it's important to take seriously. With regard to the concrete process of setting up new police services, we have to do it properly and cleanly, and we are also going to get input from there that will be the basis for that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2087	I also saw there that there were some people who thought the police were less visible after the police reform, but it might be because they no longer have a police office with a sign saying ‘Police’ or ‘Lensmannskontoret’. Talking to the police, they think a person will spend a lot of resources setting up these new police posts, and there are resources that could have gone to have more police active in the field. I wonder if the Minister of Justice can agree with me that if the goal is more visible to the police among people, it is better to use the resources of police personnel out there among people than in offices that you have to visit yourself as a resident – when the police so clearly say that they want more staff than more police offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2094	The government is committed to strengthening local police throughout the country, strengthening police preparedness and controlling resources in such a way that we get more policemen locally, that we get more visibility, and that we get a few more police posts where there is a need for it. Then we have to look at where the money is going, and one thing that has increased a lot under the right-hand government – which has recently gone off – is for example. the use of consultants. We rather want to spend money on more policemen than on it. These are things that we want to work with in our further work on budget. And so far, we've put forward an additional proposition for Stortinget, where we're proposing to spend 200 million. more on the police, which will mainly go to more staffing and more visibility locally. I think that is an important measure to strengthen preparedness and local presence throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2101	Thus, the ordinary questionnaire is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-24.ana.ud88e2115	There is no record. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
