ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e87	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives Kari Henriksen, Bjørn Moxnes, Une Bastholm, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Ingvild Kjerkol and Erlend Wiborg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e115	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Heidi Greni are unanimously elected as chairpersons for this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e128	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e133	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Heidi Greni, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I would like to suggest that the Nav office should offer professional assistance with at least the same opening hours as the municipality's town hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e138	The representative, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e143	On behalf of the deposit representatives Per-Willy Amundsen, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Tor André Johnsen, Terje Halleland, Giske Meininger Saudland, Sivert Bjørnstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on local self-government for motorised travel in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e149	The representative, Hans Andreas Limi, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e154	On behalf of the representatives Silje Hemdal, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ensure accessibility at Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e159	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e164	On behalf of Jon Georg Dale, Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Helge André Njåstad and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to improve the rules of leave by reducing the employer's period. With the last closure here in Oslo, Viken and several places we ask that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with § 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e171	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e176	On behalf of the representatives Bengt Fasteraune, Liv Signe Navarsete, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Willfred Nordlund and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to strengthen the short-distance network.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e181	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e186	Red proposes to prevent increased inequality after the corona pandemic and ensure a fair distribution of the crisis bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e191	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e196	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Nicholas Wilkinson, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Petter Eide, Karin Andersen, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal on the fight against racism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e201	The representative, Sandra Borch, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e207	On behalf of the big business representatives Heidi Greni, Siv Mossleth, Willfred Nordlund, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself, I would like to propose a revision of the law on motor travel in the fields and waterways with a view to reducing red tape and ensuring increased local autonomy for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e212	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 13, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been discussed. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e359	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e366	On 16 November 2009, Sergei Magnitsky was murdered in a Russian prison, after being in custody for 350 days – and subjected to torture – in his fight against corruption. It started an international movement. There are now laws in both Canada, Italy, the United States, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Poland and the EU in this area. Norway has had very fragmented legislation on penalties against individuals in other countries. We have had a number of different laws. We have had our own laws for Zimbabwe, we have had our own laws for countries that no longer exist, and we have actually had our own law for the Spanish Civil War, which I believe must have reached the Grand Duchy that we have actually concluded. The first time the wish to have such a type of sanction law was taken up was in 2013, when the parties Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party joined forces on this request. Then we got no from the red-green government. But in Granavolden, it was stated that you wanted to work with a new law in this field. I would particularly like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has used the opportunity to clean up the law throughout this field and have made sure that we now have one common law, and one law that is both legal and good. The democracies around us are constantly being challenged, and we need more tools to raise the principles on which democracy is based. We need to be on the team with others. This law allows Norway to play along with other Western democracies in the fight against corruption, in the fight for human rights and in the fight for legal certainty. It is also possible to do this alone, but then it has to be via Stortinget, and I think it is a wise assessment. If Norway is to do something like this on its own, it should be firmly anchored in Parliament. We strengthen legal certainty with this law, and it shows us that we do not only have military means to influence other countries. We have faith in democracy, we have faith in the principles of the rule of law, and that is what we promise by means of this Penal Code. Some believe that this could be anti-competitive and anti-market. My view is that human rights violations can be anti-competitive and anti-market. The arbitrary prosecution of citizens of a society can be anti-competitive and anti-market. I dare say that corruption can also be anti-competitive and anti-market. Fighting for a legal order in which people's human rights are respected, fighting arbitrary prosecution and corruption, is, in fact, important to have open competition and an open market between countries. We have also received criticism that the law can be polarizing. I believe that at a time when we see that many of the values on which our Western democracies are based are constantly being challenged, some must be willing to stand up for those values. A wise man once said to me that if no one is willing to die for Western values, Western values die. I believe that this is a law that shows that the principles on which we build our society are also principles that we can assert internationally. Sergei Magnitsky was murdered in Russian prison. We, who are left, should at least think that he started a spark that is now functioning internationally, where we are willing to use the democratic principles on which our society is based, also in the face of other countries and in the face of the law enforcement of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e394	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President-in-Office for a good work on this and for a strong commitment to human rights, and not least a good account of the proposal now. I will begin where the representative Skei Grande concluded, with polarization, for the whole of the Storting's work on this shows just how unpolar this proposal is. Having a cross-political consensus on this law shows the difference between polarisation and debate. It's not polarising to stand up for human rights. Some people may disagree, but it's not a polarizing tool, rather the opposite. I just want to express here that I think it was nice that the representative Skei Grande was in the post. As you can see from the comments, there is a unanimous committee that agrees to this. I just have a little clarification for a comment. That this is a unanimous committee, I think is good, it shows strength and agreement that we should stand up for what we believe in. Then I also think it is important to stress that the consensus extends for a while, because there is no contradiction between the then Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide in the spring of 2013 and the current government on the issue of Norway unilaterally and on its own, should impose sanctions and sanctions on individuals or individuals. I would quote the Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende when, in March 2014, he replied to the representative Skei Grande that he ‘shares the former Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide’s assessment of what basis should be required before sanctions be imposed in Norway against individuals or individuals’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e403	Penalties are a far stronger tool than criticism; they are also far more invasive. The Progress Party believes that sanctions may be a legitimate instrument, but we believe that the extension of such powers may mean that we stand trial, not only of nations that violate fundamental human rights, but also of practices that we dislike. The Progress Party agrees that the Government's proposal for a new Penalty Act mainly continues the main features of the two existing general law on powers. We accept that international sanctions are directed against natural or legal persons who are deemed to be behind violations of fundamental international standards. This is not dramatic in itself, but the problem is the danger of slipping out. In recent years, there has been a sharp increase in the number of sanctions regimes and a change in the level of penalties, including those targeted. Penalties are a political tool. If you look at the sanctions that Norway has already committed, this is clear. The sanctions against Egypt are such an example. These are EU sanctions to which Norway has joined the regulation. The EU imposed sanctions on Egypt's former President Hosni Mubarak, his immediate family and some members of his government in 2011, when the people's uprising of the Arab Spring had just begun. The reason for sanctioning these individuals was that they were designated as responsible for the improper acquisition of the resources of the Egyptian State, thereby robbing the Egyptian people of the benefits of sustainable development, of its economy and society, and undermining the development of democracy in the country. One may agree or disagree with the legality of these sanctions, but there is no doubt that these persons are not the only ones in Egypt's political and economic landscape who have been guilty of robbing the Egyptian people. The decision to impose sanctions on precisely these has to do with the political situation in Egypt at the beginning of the Arab Spring and the political position taken by the EU and Norway. This illustrates the need to use sanctions with caution and there is reason to be skeptical that sanctions are increasingly being used to prevent serious violations of international human rights, international humanitarian law or infringements of other fundamental international standards. This may include most of the reasons you don't like. The Advocate General pointed this out in his Opinion: ‘A practice opens up where some countries can impose restrictions on ‘most’.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Advocate General understands the need for Norway to adapt to international developments and interaction and to be able to agree to international sanctions in a rapid and responsible manner. At the same time, caution must be exercised in criminalising new acts.’ The Progress Party is also concerned about how selective sanctions can be used to punish activities that are not popular. You can imagine sanctions on companies that produce something you take away from, companies that use production methods you don't like. Penalties may be imposed on countries producing fur animals or whaling, or countries not restricting the use of petrol and diesel cars, or coal-fired countries. The list is relatively infinite, but much more serious it is that it is based on political judgement. There is a need to ask questions about money that Norway contributes to the aid budget, which has been abused by its management in several cases. Penalties are not assessed, even new means of assistance are still being transferred. We must not get into a situation where sanctions are applied in increasingly new areas that will have an impact on nations, businesses or the right to self-determination of persons without a clear anchor in the Stortinget. These members consider that the present legislative proposal does not sufficiently limit the government’s powers to impose sanctions. The Progress Party will therefore vote against the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e426	I would also like to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for raising this question and renewing the law we have had, to a more up-to-date and modern law – which according to the Foreign Minister and others is much the same as the other, but at least let us not look at two laws. One has coordinated them, and coordination is often difficult in the ministry, so all praise to the minister who got it. This means that the government and Norway have a basis of privacy that can provide faster and more effective action in order to stop measures that are considered and to implement them in Norwegian law. It is also the case that the EU has updated its legislation. What first came here, whether it was the EU or the idea in Norway to update us, I do not know, but it might have been interesting to know whether there are differences between the up-to-date EU legislation has just been introduced and what we are going to adopt here today. Today, EU foreign ministers will agree on sanctions against people and businesses in a number of countries, including China, for violations of human rights. When it comes to China, it's about the uighurs in Xinjiang. Myanmar is also on that list, and they are going to discuss both Russia and Turkey, so they have enough to discuss today. Back to us: In Norway, sanctions are mostly used after the UN has taken its decisions, where Norway is of course involved. So we have restrictions, as they are called, where we must follow the EU in their restrictions on individual countries. It is clear that there has been a great development from the laws that were enacted and to this day, and it is so important that the general laws of authority are updated. There has been a sharp increase in the number of sanctions regimes, and some changes in the scope of sanctions, who are targeted, and therefore the measures implemented in national law. This has resulted in new issues that were not discussed when one developed the current law. On the one hand, there has been a trend towards increased use of sanctions directed at individual individuals, etc. to prevent serious violations of international human rights or international humanitarian law or to infringe other fundamental international standards. On the other hand, there is an increased international focus on respect for human rights of persons and other actors who are subject to sanctions and restrictive measures where they are. When the matter was being heard, there were positive feedbacks from the hearing authorities, and as far as I can remember, no one opposed the adoption of this promise. It's in itself special, too often someone thinks there's something wrong with a law, and then there'll be comments from different hearing authorities. I think we're on pretty safe ground here, even in terms of the hearings. The centre party would stress that Norwegian support for sanctions must depend on independent health assessments of both effects and implications. When political sanctions are further implemented for Norwegian foreign and security policy, it is, of course, inconceivable that one assesses the accession of the Stortinget. The proposal for a penal code provides for an authorisation based on decisions of intergovernmental organisations or whether the sanction or restrictive measures have otherwise widened international scope. For the Central Party, it is important to join sanctions that do not take place in the United Nations, both with democratic anchoring and with open public debate. The government should keep the Storting updated on sanctions and restrictive measures to which Norway has joined. By that I would also say that the Central Party is going to vote for the law to be signed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e447	It's been a long time since we last took up the sanctions policy and the laws that govern it, in Stortinget. The penalty law currently being replaced mainly dates from 2001. Since then, sanctions have become an increasingly commonly used instrument, and the way sanctions are applied has also changed significantly. The SV therefore acknowledges the need for an up-to-date legislation. The main change in the law is that individuals can now be punished, including: for serious human rights violations, and it is correct and important that this now constitutes a sanctioning basis under Norwegian law. At the same time, it is important that the sanctions policy aimed at both States and individuals is well-founded, well-established and consistent, and that brings me to the SV and the Central Party minority comment on the matter. 20 years ago, when the law in force was up for debate, the same two parties aired a number of considerations that we believe stand out well today. Firstly, it concerns transparency and anchoring in Stortinget. When the government is now given a somewhat extended mandate, the government should also be very aware that there are powers that need to be well managed. Sanctions policies have become an increasingly visible part of global polarisation and major conflict in recent years. It also means that access to sanctions can easily have wider implications for foreign policy and security policy. I would therefore like the majority to stand behind our remark that when such matters should come on the table, the Stortinget should be consulted in appropriate channels. SV also believes that when new powers are given to the government, they have a responsibility to provide the Stortinget with more information and to provide the public with a greater degree of transparency about the Norwegian decisions. It is understandable that the government wants, first and foremost, a sanction law that deals with the accession of already existing sanctions regimes. Several hearing bodies have expressed a wish for Norway to establish its own penalties. I think that's a discussion we should have. But at the same time, it requires far more extensive pre-work than what we now have on the table. However, the fact that we are talking here about international sanctions that have wide international support should not prevent independent assessments from always being made. Norway can never enter a position where we import sanctions on autopilot. We assume that when the government calls for an extended sanction law, they will also give priority to it in the administration, so that we actually have the opportunity to make good independent judgements. In this context, I would like to make a final point, which concerns the use of sanctions in general, because it is a controversial instrument in terms of both impact and possible adverse effects. In an unpredictable world where injustice, oppression and human rights violations hit innocents all too often, we often look for means to intervene. Then sanctions are one tool, but rarely the only one, and often not the most accurate one. Therefore, I encourage the government to be vigilant in listening to professional advice and to critical voices when agreeing to sanctions, and always to make an independent assessment. Caution, coherence and anchoring must also be a guiding factor in Norwegian sanctions policy in the future, and also with the changes being made today, the law we are getting in place today, for which SV will vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e462	We learn as long as we live, and I have certainly learned that for the last year, well and well, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, where one sees that there are instruments and practices that are completely different from the working methods or policies that I have otherwise been away from. So what we're doing today is adding a foreign policy tool to our toolbox, and I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the President-in-Office for their commitment to human rights violations. The Granavolden Platform states: ‘Examining how Norway, as part of a broad pan-European solution, can contribute to the development of a sanctions regime against persons for serious violations of human rights.’ That's what's behind this proposition that's on the table today, and there's a new turn in how we can work to combat human rights violations, even when there's no appropriate or sufficient penalty against a regime. Deeds are made on the ground by individuals, even when they act on behalf of a regime or an ice cream. Penalties against individuals are relatively new phenomena. The issue of sanctions against individuals was first raised in Norway by representatives from the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Progressive Party in a question to the then Foreign Minister Barth Eide in 2013. The question was raised on the basis of the torture and murder of Sergei Magnitsky, who uncovered a major corruption case in Russia. We are, of course, sorry that the need for such sanctions seems to be increasing, but we are pleased that we are now being streamlined the mechanisms for Norwegian accession to such sanctions. For example, in Belarus – or Belarus, as we should refer to the country as carrying out masked KGB agents continually violate serious human rights violations against individuals, but they are terrified of having their identity revealed, for they probably realize that sooner or later the dictatorial regime falls. Penalties against individuals can in fact be an effective tool to undermine the actions of repressive regimes, often disguised as acts by the people of the nation later denouncing their knowledge. Norway has no tradition of unilateral sanctions, i.e. alone, but Norway has concluded on several occasions of sanctions or restrictive measures implemented in Norwegian law, as well as UN sanctions imposed by international law. I am pleased that in this proposition, Norway has been given a basis for its establishment which gives the government a quick and effective opportunity to conclude on these measures and to implement them in Norwegian law. Of course, Norway shall make an independent assessment of each individual sanction or restrictive measure addressed to individuals and entities, so-called listing. But the possibility of sanctions is a tough and effective instrument, and it requires careful pre-work, good anchoring and good political judgement to be accurate. With this law, we have expanded our toolbox and made it possible for such tools to be used later. The fact that a unanimous foreign committee is behind it is extra happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e479	I didn't expect it to require a further explanation when there's such a broad majority in the committee for the proposition, but after the post from the representative Tybring-Gjedde, I think there's a certain need to clarify what this law is not. At my discretion, it does not offer the possibility of complete arbitraryity by imposing penalties on enterprises that produce – in short, in summary – the Tybrung-Gjedde otherwise would be politically incorrect goods and services. It is apparent from the context of the proposition that private parties are only subject to these sanctions to the extent that they contribute to the repression apparatus of the States and that that is the link we draw into this home. So we are talking about the restrictions and sanctions we are obliged to implement because we recognise international law and the United Nations system of sanctions, and because we are also assessing, from the same perspective, the violation of the European Convention on Human Rights and, consequently, the EU's follow-up to that sanctioning regime. It is also a little contradictory, because, unlike the previous law, which did not allow private parties to apply the sanctions to a court, the current Penal Code contains the possibility to be tried by a national court if the implementation of the UN sanctions against them is correct, whether it is on the right basis, whether it is proportionate, whether it is appropriate, etc. It is precisely preventing the gloomy scenario of the Tybring-Gjedde representative – that there would be complete randomness here. Nor is the visit to development aid particularly striking. It is never a penalty to decide to close a transfer of funds to another country by saying that this money makes more use in another country, that we have to save or allocate the money elsewhere for other reasons. It has nothing to do with penalties. So neither does that scenario seem to me to be based on the reality of the case. Otherwise, I can join in the presentation that the rapporteur gave. We might challenge the Progress Party on the simple question: Is it such that the Progress Party will stand free and say that Norway should not follow up UN sanctions that bind Norway internationally? I think it might have been more relevant to discuss and clarify here in the hall if they want to. And we'd rather write it in the Curiosity account that when the Progress Party then rejects the law, their position is also that we should still have in the law a sanction law that applies to a closed civil war from the 1930s in Spain and to a most disbanded Yugoslav nation state. Now it's not the party's fault, but sometimes I ask myself, how can it be that such antiquities survive in the law for so long? The legislation is influenced by a lot of laws, and it is a lot to get involved in – we know that now in these pandemics – and there is no contribution to pedagogics that we have laws in our legislation that do not hatch when history has left them too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e494	First, I would like to thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good work and good reflections in the debate. The new Penalty Act shall replace two Powers Acts of 1968 and 2001 respectively. They are currently used to implement UN sanctions and EU restrictive measures in Norwegian law, in so far as Norway concludes them. Developments at international level have led to new issues that were very small in the debate at the time of the adoption of these two laws. Since their adoption, there has been a trend towards the increasing use of sanctions as a foreign policy instrument. On the one hand, we see that sanctions are increasingly targeted at individuals, where, in the past, sanctions were quite normal for States. This is done, among other things: to prevent serious violations of international human rights or international humanitarian law or infringements of other fundamental international standards. On the other hand, we also see that there is an increased international focus on the human rights of those who are subject to sanctions. I'll be right back. The new law will ensure that Norway, together with other countries, can quickly and effectively impose sanctions on individuals and entities acting contrary to basic international standards. Norway has already politically concluded on the EU sanctions regime against persons or entities considered responsible for, or involved in, serious violations of human rights, serious cyber operations or the use and spread of chemical weapons. However, under the laws of the day, the government has not been able to fully implement these sanctions in Norwegian law. Travel restrictions on scheduled persons are implemented under the Foreign Affairs Act, but today there is no legal basis for introducing economic freeze measures against the same individuals, and these two components of the EU's restrictive measures typically consist of. This is because the government’s powers under the 2001 Penalty Act are limited to the implementation of measures targeting ‘states or movements’ and do not include such sanctions regimes aimed at individuals and entities unrelated to a particular country or movement. The new law will change this, and we will be able to implement all the measures in Norwegian law. At the same time, I would like to stress that the draft law, although extending the powers of the government somewhat, also establishes an important framework for these powers. The mandate may only be used for the implementation of measures aimed at maintaining peace and security or ensuring respect for democracy and the rule of law, human rights or international law. In line with the law in force, the mandate is also limited to the implementation of measures which are widely recognised among like-minded countries. The enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence shall continue to be consulted before the adoption of a decision of a specific national or foreign policy significance. Let me also add that the new law does not alter the basic principle that Norway makes its own assessments before the possible introduction of EU restrictive measures. We always make an assessment of the specific sanctioning regime. There are some EU sanctions Norway has not stopped. In most cases it may be for Norway’s role in peace and reconciliation processes, but there may also be other situations. For example, Norway has not concluded on the EU General List of Terrorism and EU action against Turkey’s drilling activities in the Eastern Mediterranean. So it has other reasons that the Committee is well aware of. Penalties are, as I have pointed out, an intervention against individuals, and the legal certainty of those who are subject to sanctions must therefore be ensured. Firstly, the legislative proposal introduces administrative remedies for listed persons. Secondly, it is proposed in the proposal that those listed should be able to have a special lawyer appointed if he is suing the State for the purpose of verifying the validity of the listing. A system of special lawyers shall ensure both the possibility of counter-dictation in line with human rights and at the same time ensure the need to keep information secret for the sake of national security or the relationship with a foreign country. The last amendment of the law that I want to mention is that the scope of sanctions and export control legislation is extended to include Svalbard and Jan Mayen. This is, of course, in order to ensure that violations of the law are also punished in or through these areas. I am very pleased with the support in Stortinget. The new law will therefore allow Norway, together with other like-minded countries, to react quickly and effectively to serious violations of basic international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e521	We have all felt that the concept of ‘human rights’ is constantly evolving. We have fundamental human rights, and then we have other human rights. And we have, among other things, some who claim that climate pollution is a violation of human rights. And if you're going to keep going that way, you can get pretty far. So my point is, where do the sanctions end? Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that pollution – climate and other forms of pollution – will be subject to sanctions, i.e. human rights are increasing in scope?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e526	As I was a little bit into it, and as the proposition is also in it, it is not initially intended to extend the scope of restrictive measures when it is relevant for Norway. We are bound by international law to implement UN sanctions in Norwegian law, so this is when the EU or other groups of like-minded people decide to impose sanctions. We normally get a request to join, and we do, as I just mentioned, assessments of it. What we have seen so far is that where it is relevant for the EU or groups of like-minded people to introduce these types of restrictive measures, it is primarily in the thematic areas I mentioned. So it's a gross human rights violation. It's the use and spread of chemical weapons. And these are cyber operations. These are also the three regimes on the part of the European Union to which we have joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e531	So it's the areas, only those areas, or will the EU expand these areas to include more? There is great pressure to increase the scope of human rights. Is it independent of that, so that this law applies to those areas, only those areas, and nothing else? If the EU extends these areas, will Norway not be involved, or will the EU extend the concept of human rights and Norway will join? I had a little difficulty getting it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e536	I think I said it relatively clearly that at present it is the thematic regimes in which the EU has chosen to impose restrictive measures on individuals, and these are also the thematic areas in which Norway has been involved. For the time being, I am in favour of hearing discussions in the European Union that it is now time to expand this. Should this be the case on the part of the European Union, we will, as I also said, carry out our assessments of it if there are other thematic areas. But let me say this: it is sadly more than enough to deal with in the areas I mentioned, where the EU has therefore wanted to be able to use restrictive measures, and it has been important for Norway to join, when we see that it is in line with Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e541	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e548	A few speakers from this House today have pointed out that this is a unanimous vote by the Committee. That is not the case, and my party colleague Christian Tybring-Gjedde has also made it clear: the Advance Party is not in favour. Then it is quite right, as the Foreign Minister says, that Norway is obliged by international law to implement sanctions by the United Nations and the Security Council. And it is so understandable that the government now wants to modernise the law, so that newer forms of sanctions can also be sanctioned there. Penalties are more often used as a political and economic means of pressuring and are often directed at individuals and companies. Then we hear the foreign minister's assurance of the areas for which this is to apply, and we hope that it will also vote in the future. Tybring-Gjedde has already explained several of the concerns that the Progress Party has related to the new Penalty Act, and we are particularly concerned that the list of reasons for sanctions is increasing. In our view, this could break fundamental principles of national self-determination and sovereignty. We have to be careful about interfering in the internal relationships of other sovereign states, and therefore we are a little surprised to see that the Center Party is so wholeheartedly supporting the law. Let me point to a couple of other issues where the Progress Party has concerns. It is mentioned that the law will strengthen the legal certainty of persons who are subject to sanctions, but it is appropriate to point out that, following the draft law, access to justice is limited to persons with a certain connection with Norway. The other batches highlight in the setting that: ‘Norway needs a legal basis to enable the government to conclude rapidly and effectively these measures and implement them in Norwegian law’. This is a less good argument. If it's really urgent, a law can be passed in the Storting in three days. This is stated in the Grundlagen and Stortingen Rules of Procedure. Rapid treatment of laws has been done in the past, most recently in the Korona crisis, but also when we got the refugee crisis on Storskog in captivity in 2015. Thus, a new law is not essential to get a quick decision on Norwegian participation in sanctions. So this law will make it easier for the government that always sits on sanctions regimes to end without necessarily having this debate and anchored in the Stortinget. This can therefore in practice involve a shift of power from the Storting to the Government. Although the Penalty Act is adopted by a majority in this Chamber, I assume that the government takes note of the objections raised in this debate and that it chooses to inform the Storting when it assesses the support of a new sanction regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e568	This is according to my and the Labour Party's discretion, as explained by the representative Christensen, a necessary and correct law. It's fine with the width of the connection that the setting expresses, and we also notice it here in the hall. For my part I just want to say that I personally have great confidence that the government knows where the boundaries go if you need to get to the Stortinget. There is, of course, a perspective in the discussion we have here about the extension of the concepts and the sanctioning basis. If that happens, I feel confident that any government will come to the Storting before imposing sanctions – that's just what I said. But there is one perspective in this, presented on the part of the Progress Party, which I do not get access to, and which I think it is useful to be clarified before we close this debate today. The party of progress is against the law that comes to pass. Then the question is, are they for the law that exists, or do they not want any law at all? Neither the representative of Tybring-Gjedde nor the representative of Wold has explained it. I think it is useful that it is clarified before the debate is over. Where does the Progress Party at all stand in this matter? We've been told that they don't want the law that's now being proposed, but what do they want instead? Nothing or the old laws? There is a question there is reason to travel, and as I think should be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e577	I take the word to clarify something I said instead, which was wrong. It's not unanimity. I'll explain why I was wrong, too. It is because I did not see any alternative proposal from the Progress Party. It's also because I couldn't see any arguments against. I couldn't quite find that disagreement. So I just wanted to make it clear that I have come to understand that the Progress Party is against. I haven't come with me why, but I acknowledge that it's not unanimity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e584	The representative of Kolberg seems to have a kind of professional habit of coming to the pulpit after I've had the floor. But he must listen first, I will ask the representative to listen first. I'm just going to repeat what's said from here – maybe before he got into the hall, I don't know. The Progress Party agrees that the Government's proposal for a new Penalty Act mainly continues the main features of the two existing general law on powers. We accept that international sanctions are directed against natural or legal persons who are deemed to be behind violations of fundamental international standards. Then it's clear. So to the representative Michael Tetzschner, who doesn't find any challenges with this, and thinks it's clear in the law. Then you have to read the text of the law a little bit more thoroughly. In fact, I trust the Advocate General more in the interpretation of this, which is quite clear that if you are not aware of this, than my excellent colleague Michael Tetzschner – therefore this comment too. It has not been said that it is slipping out, but it can emerge, and that is exactly what is the point of the Progress Party here, that if you allow this to slip out, you get a situation where sanctions are applied against businesses, against individuals and against countries, and, of course, selectively, because human rights are still being extended, the definition of human rights is being extended, and the European Union also looks at this because we have a common starting point in the field of human rights. It will then be difficult for some people, businesses and some countries to live up to the standards and rules that we define as human rights and are constantly expanding. I think we should be a little bit more aware of what we actually decide, be a little bit more critical of what the law actually says, and make the concerns that are necessary in a law like this. The government's task is, of course, to defend the law itself, but we in this Chamber must not defend it, either the representatives of the government parties or the opposition. Every time it's a unanimity, you have to ask the question one more time: maybe you have to read a little bit more carefully, maybe you have to look a little bit for the objections that are coming, and maybe you have to take these into account and don't take the Council of State into account the most? It's absolutely crucial. And read the law, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e601	I need to add a couple of things, and it's related to making legislative proposals for each time. It is true that by means of a rapid procedure, the Storting can adopt a law technically within three days, but there is a lot of pre-work to ensure that a law is passed. In my view and in the majority's view, it is not necessary to make legislative proposals for each time. At the same time, however, we know that if sanctions or restrictive measures were to be imposed that have foreign policy significance beyond the normal, the government would of course come to the Stortinget and consult on it. It is in line with current practice. It is possible that I heard errors, but I heard the representative Morten Wold say that we must be careful, more cautious about interfering in the internal affairs of other countries. But the whole point of the sanctions regime and restrictive measures is that it is not a country's internal affairs. Serious violations of human rights, the use of chemical weapons or large cyberoperations are not what are considered to be the internal affairs of a State. That is precisely why we have joined the EU sanctions regime against those who were behind the poisoning of Aleksei Navalnyj. We have joined the sanctions regime against those who were behind major hacker attacks. There are many nationalities on the list – as two examples. I also think it is right to support the debate that the Advocate-General agreed to the bill after weighing the various considerations that existed. But it is quite right, as the representatives of the Progressive Party stress, that the Riksadvokat has pointed out some concerns the Riksadvokat sees, but nevertheless believes that there is reason to recommend the bill. In conclusion, I believe, as I said, that the government, as today, should be empowered to implement measures that have broad support among like-minded states. It also means that powers should not be limited to sanctions adopted by the United Nations or restrictive measures adopted in the EU. That's what's most topical today, but evolution is going in a direction where you can imagine, for example, that. Part of the EU Member States want to implement something and cannot prevent one or two countries from blocking a consensus in the EU. I believe that this is an entirely up-to-date situation, where it is important for Norway to be able to participate. Then there is no change in Norwegian sanctions policy in the law, but there are up-to-date tools for us to be able to participate in what I experience is a clear Norwegian policy line for human rights, for violations of human rights, and also for keeping responsible for those who commit these abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e614	It is with increasing amazement that I hear the comments from the representative Tybring-Gjedde, because with that reason he should also go against the sanctions laws we have today. Nor can they be said to set a uniform, medium-term limit on what could be implemented under today's legislation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is involved in the pedagogical here by saying that it concerns universal human rights. That means that they are rights, freedoms, that we carry with us as individuals no matter where we are in the world, and regardless of whether or not that territorial state recognizes them. It's these rights that we're talking about, and that's also what we have experience of becoming the subject of international sanctions. So it's not about the pressure we're looking at right now to water down the concept of human rights. There I mean Tybring-Gjedde has a point. We must protect that human rights are the fundamental universal, and not possibly the right to free university education, or as the lady who now went to the EMD because she complained about the noise of a nearby discotheque. Then we should be together to pin on what is the core values, and which is the United Nations Universal Declaration, which has thus become part of the context of the industrial murders that had taken place on ethnic groups during World War II. That's the context we're talking about. Those are the civil and political rights. I have to say again that one of the reasons why the representative Christensen had a reference to our unanimity is that the committee expresses unanimity, also with the votes of the Progress Party. They highlight three qualities of the Penalty Act available. The proposal provides for those affected by the listing, administrative access to appeals against such lists, and the legal certainty of the listed persons is to be strengthened by the possibility of bringing an action against the State before the courts. It is equally gratifying that we now have a final explanation that the scope of the law also applies to Svalbard and Jan Mayen. These three willful qualities, which one unanimously agrees to highlight in a unanimous position, run away by voting against the whole law. That's not very logical. Nor do I think the attempts to explain it are very convincing, because we have the opportunity to counteract the dystopia that has been highlighted by the speakers of the Progress Party, because it is Norway that implements these sanctions, in conjunction with the sanctions regimes that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e624	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e643	'All power in this room' is an expression that means a lot to the North. This is about the very core of the regime, which is that the Norwegian people should decide in Norway. In reality, however, the basis for many decisions, laws and rules is being prepared far beyond the Grand Chamber, often in such a way that bureaucracy, or non-popular persons, has a major influence on the final decision or law adopted by the Grand Duchy. A safe and sound office is a natural and necessary part of any democracy, including the Norwegian one. But there is a limit where the government becomes too powerful and for the disengagement of the people's rule. The centre party believes this is one of the main problems in the EU today, affecting both the EU's own citizens and the Norwegian people through our relationship with the EU. An example of this is the Treaty approval procedure in the Constitutional Act § 26. This provision means that the executive, i.e. the government, cannot enter Norway on its own into treaties of particular importance, and limits the accessions which may be granted under the EEA Agreement without the consent of the Grand Duchy. Often, consent is given by the Stortinget by incorporating the EEA provisions into the law and submitting them to the Stortinget for treatment. In reality, however, the Storting did not have much to say when a treaty or law was presented to this Chamber in accordance with Paragraph 26. Often, there are two options for action: either to approve or to reject the Treaty or the legislative proposal as a whole, which have already been negotiated or prepared before the Stortinget case. Firstly, if a treaty or other agreement is to be concluded, the negotiations on the content have already been conducted by government representatives, without the Stortinget having had the opportunity to express its opinion. Secondly, if new EU legislation is to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, it is often drawn up and agreed by the EU in practice, and there is little Norway that can do to change its content. Norway may avail itself of the right to reserve resulting from the EEA Agreement, but this mechanism is practically unused. This illustrates one of the most common objections to the EEA Agreement: it is undemocratic. Most in the political landscape seem to agree that the EEA Agreement is not a good solution for Norway’s relationship with the EU today, much because of the democratic deficit in the agreement. The difference is often found between the adherents to an alternative trade agreement that does not require Norway to renounce sovereignty and centralise power to the EU institutions, as the Centre Party believes, and those who believe that the best option is to secure influence through full EU membership. Norway is currently subject to a number of EU laws and regulations that we have not had any influence over. However, the problem, which is at the heart of this interpellation, is that this is not only due to Norway’s form of association with the EU. The Central Party believes that a major problem, which is profoundly problematic, is that the regulatory and legislative processes within the EU are fundamentally undemocratic, and that even the inhabitants of the EU's own Member States do not have the opportunity to influence or follow those processes in a reassuring way. Over many years, the EU has been criticised for its own legislative processes. The Member States of the European Union have pointed to the serious problems of democracy in the Union. The EU Ombudsman has repeatedly used his voice to shed light on EU legislative processes and how they are characterised by secrecy, bureaucracy, hidden power structures and lack of public transparency. This criticism is particularly addressed to the European Commission and the Council. In the class struggle on 18 December, via Investigate Europe, the EU ombudsman, inter alia: that it is ‘so to say impossible for citizens to find out how a European law was created’. The European Parliament is the only democratic alibi in the European Union, with elected representatives from all the Member States, but in practice the power lies largely with the European Commission, which does not consist of elected representatives. On 10 February 2021, the European Parliament itself adopted a resolution criticising the lack of transparency in legislative processes in the EU, in particular with regard to the European Commission and the Council. The European Parliament also criticises itself for the lack of transparency. Continuously, the public lacks access to and too strict classification of documents, requests for transparency rejected too often and without sufficient justification, and meetings held behind closed doors. Both the European Parliament and the European Ombudsman have been criticising these conditions for a long time – over many years. The European Parliament also gave clear signals in 2018 when they dealt with a report and a resolution on transparency in legislative processes in the EU bodies. Even then, major weaknesses were highlighted in the legislative processes, and the European Parliament expressed deep concern about the lack of democracy. The European Court of Justice has also concerned the secrecy and interpreted the EU Treaty and the EU Transparency Regulation in favour of more transparency, for example. in Access Info Europe v Council of the European Union. However, part of the criticism of the European Parliament on 10 February was that the Council circumvented the decisions of the European Court of Justice in practice. In December 2017, the Dutch Parliament endorsed an initiative that brought together 26 parliaments on a joint letter to the Council and the Eurogroup with concerns and concrete proposals to increase transparency in the EU and, in particular, in the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, this criticism has been slightly followed up over three years later. When the legislative processes in the EU are subject to such strong and long-standing criticism, it means in practice that this criticism is directed towards the processes behind it, we promise at last to implement and adopt it here in the landfill. This concerns the Center Party, and it should also worry the government. In Norwegian democracy, publicity is a very central principle. The social debate shall be informed. The legislative procedure in the Basic Law § 75 is, in principle, public. People should be able to participate in the debate on legislation and legislation introduced in Norway. And most importantly, the people shall rule the land. The power shall lie with those elected to Stortinget in accordance with the Constitution § 67. The principle of publicity has been laid down in many areas of constitutional law, including: in the Basic Law, § 84, which states: ‘The size is kept open to open doors and its negotiations are published at the pressure, except in cases where the opposite is determined by a majority of votes.’;» Open democracy is precisely a fundamental consideration behind this and other provisions. Only in very special cases do we close the shots for people. If the negotiations or documents of the Storing are to be kept hidden from the public, there must be serious grounds for doing so, such as: the security of the State. Despite Norway’s pride in being a free and open democracy, it is accepted that we are importing thousands of laws and regulations from the EU that would not have achieved our own standard of democracy and process if they had been here and become here in Norway. The undemocratic construction of the EU contributes to strengthening the democratic deficit of Norway's relationship with the EU today. The serious consequence of accepting this situation is that people over time are losing confidence in democracy and governance, both here in Norway and at European level. What does the government think is that Norway is bound by a multitude of EU rules that have become part of undemocratic legislative processes without transparency and transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e686	Transparency about the development of rules and the ability to influence them is important. It strengthens the freedom of information and expression, ensuring democratic participation, the legal certainty of individuals, the confidence of the public and the possibilities of public control. These considerations are also explicitly highlighted in the purpose paragraph of our own disclosure law. The interpellation here is essentially raising two main questions. The first concerns the possibilities for EU citizens, national institutions and the general public to gain transparency in the development of EU rules, based on EU legislation. The second part of the question is more specific as to what opportunities Norway has to follow or influence European regulatory development that will affect us on the basis of the EEA Agreement and other agreements. I will first talk about the EU's actions to ensure public interest in my own regulatory development before I go into what I see as the key issue of Norwegian interest. On the first main issue, the interpellation appears to be based on the fact that EU legislation does not emphasise or provide only very limited opportunities for transparency, transparency and transparency in EU documents. It is – perhaps not surprising – a premise I do not agree with. The EU institutions are subject to a fundamental principle of transparency. Since the Treaty of Lisbon, the main principle of disclosure has been enshrined in Article 15(3) of the Treaty on European Union. This means that transparency requires justification for a specified derogation. It is more detailed in regulations that have been clarified by case-law. Everyone has the right to apply through the procedure described therein and on which the inter-pellant is involved, the EU has had an Ombudsman elected by the European Parliament since 1995. The regulatory basis is that all documents are publicly available, but in the same way as for access under Norwegian rules, certain information has been exempted for reasons of public security, personal data, international relations, military secrets, etc. The exemption rules have been interpreted strictly by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the EU institutions have a high degree of transparency. In 2018, the Commission granted 80 pst. by the requests for transparency, the Council 72,2 pst. and Parliament 96 p.m. The Commission receives most of the requests for transparency and the number is increasing. EU legal developments have not been static either. Public affairs have increasingly been put on the agenda in cases before the European Court of Justice. Publicity and transparency requirements for the practice of transparency have been a priority for the Nordic countries of the EU, in line with the Nordic legal tradition. It has also been the subject of debate and increasing focus in the EU institutions. Although administrative traditions in this field have been partly very different in European countries, there has been considerable awareness and legal development in this area. It is necessary to add that EU cooperation over the years has evolved from primary economic cooperation to cover a number of other important areas of society. The possibility of democratic influence on EU rules is central, and it follows from the EU Treaties that EU citizens have the right to participate in the EU's democratic life. The Commission conducts open consultations for all major policy initiatives, which are also required under the Treaty. Open public online hearings are always provided for both initiatives where impact assessments are required, initiatives to be carried out through evaluation and quality control, and green papers, i.e. policy discussion bases. Consultations take place for at least 12 weeks, and Norwegian actors can also make representations at these hearings. Then it is the Council and the European Parliament which are legislative bodies. The Council shall be composed of representatives of the governments of the Member States. These representatives are, of course, democratically accountable to national parliaments of their own countries and are bound by the views of their elected representatives when they participate in discussions at EU level. Members of the European Parliament are directly elected by the citizens of the EU and are accountable to their voters, irrespective of national governments and parliaments. The European Parliament thus gives a democratic dimension to the legislative work of the European Union. The Treaties require the legislative institutions of the European Union to have an open and regular dialogue with civil society and stakeholder organisations. National Parliaments of the Member States have a contractual right to be kept informed of proposals for new EU legislation and participate in regular consultations and the management of the principle of subsidiarity. As mentioned above, the EU institutions are subject to a fundamental principle of transparency. The Commission’s legislative proposals and strategies are published on the Commission’s website, the Council’s meeting calendar is publicly and easily accessible on the home page, and the conclusions of the Council meetings are publicly available. Meetings of the European Parliament are mainly open to the public, and of course meetings can also be followed by video transmission. It concerns both plenary and committee meetings, which is therefore more transparent than the Storting shows, particularly in relation to committee meetings. All proposals and documents to be discussed are open to the public on Parliament's website. Individuals, organisations and businesses are also able to see EU legislative work through the information provided on the websites of EU institutions. According to the Commission, covid-19 has led to increased interest in Commission documents. In addition to the information published, it is therefore possible to make use of the right of access. Both Parliament and the Commission are concerned with increased transparency. Parliament is committed to providing citizens with access to a wide range of sources of information as a basis for their own views. For this reason, Parliament wants a more proactive approach to transparency by the institutions and believes that EU institutions need to have a continuous assessment of new methods to achieve maximum transparency. That is a priority I agree with. Parliament believes that, in particular, the Council should seek greater transparency and, in particular, wants Parliament to review and update the 2001 transparency rules. Both the European Parliament and the Ombudsman regularly review transparency and criticise and propose improvements in their reports. In its last resolution on transparency, adopted by Parliament on 10 February, to which the inter-pellant refers, several concrete proposals and wishes were put forward. Parliament wishes, inter alia, to: less secrecy of documents, increased transparency of infringements of the Treaties before the Court of Justice of the European Union and increased transparency of Council discussions. Parliament also wants a more user-friendly solution for transparency in Parliament's vote. Transparency is also an important priority for the Von der Leyen Commission. Transparency is a prerequisite for ensuring the confidence of citizens in EU legislation and policy initiatives. A recent agreement has been concluded between the three EU legislative institutions on the establishment of a transparency register to ensure the transparency of their contacts. This applies both to lobbying and to documents received. During its deployment, von der Leyen took the initiative for a conference on the future of Europe, and a central theme for the conference is precisely the question of how to bring citizens closer to EU decision-making processes. So to our rights and opportunities for transparency based on the EEA Agreement and other contractual relationships with the EU. These are in addition to the general possibilities to gain insight into the EU processes that I have described. It is important to remember that the EEA Agreement gives us treaty rights to be included and to gain insight into the early stages of regulatory development in line with EU Member States. This follows, among other things: Articles 99 to 101 of the Agreement. I would also like to add that more and more legislative developments are based on research and the acquisition of new knowledge that is closely linked to our participation in EU programmes. There, we have also been given specific opportunities to participate in Articles 79 to 82 through the EEA Agreement. On the basis of the EEA Agreement, participation opportunities have also emerged in a number of key issues for Norwegian welfare. I just want to mention here examples of health, food safety, pollution control, consumer protection and aviation security. I would like to add that other basis of agreement with the EU also provides us with transparency and opportunities for participation. Schengen cooperation involves a significant degree of transparency and exchange of importance for the control of our common external border and has allowed for simplifications of essential importance for travel within the Schengen area. The government has a central objective of pursuing an active and effective European policy. We are therefore seeking to make use of the opportunities we have through our works of agreement and cooperation with the EU, in particular the EEA Agreement, to influence and contribute to legislative development in line with Norwegian interests and good pan-European solutions. EU regulatory developments are usually a long process, and the chances of getting through and affecting the content of the legislation that is relevant to us are greatest in preparatory phases, not unlike what it is at home. That is why we take advantage of the possibility provided for in the EEA Agreement to participate in expert groups and committees under the Commission and in EU agencies when proposals are being prepared. In addition, Norwegian actors, including Norwegian authorities, have the opportunity to make representations through EU open consultation processes. The government and the civil service also have extensive contact with the Commission, the Council and Parliament. We also participate in many informal processes. Transparency is important, participation is important, but I do not agree with the premise that this does not happen in the EU processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e739	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It seems to me that a ten-minute defence of the Commission and that the Norwegian Government is more positive to internal democracy in the EU than the EU itself is. The premise that I have set out in this interview, which is the background to the question, is precisely criticism that comes from the EU's own elected body, the European Parliament, and not least the EU's ombudsman. The Minister of Foreign Affairs put great emphasis on explaining how the standards of transparency in the eyes of the government are obviously very good, but I didn't fully understand whether the government believes they live up to Norwegian standards at all levels. Then I wonder if the Minister for Foreign Affairs can say in concrete terms whether she disagrees with the EU's own representative, who has stated that it is so impossible for a citizen of the Union to find out what a law was like. Some of the main problem here is that Norway’s government or Norwegian bureaucrats who communicate with Brussels may well be able to make some input into negotiations or in early legislative processes, but what this is all about is the extent to which our citizens have the opportunity to influence the processes and follow the laws of Norway that come from the EU and which Norwegian citizens have to live with in their everyday lives. Both the Right and the Left, which are two out of three government parties, have an explicit objective of working for Norwegian membership of the EU. I hold firmly to what I have said in my opening speech: I believe that the EU system as it now stands is fundamentally undemocratic. It's built up to centralize power, it moves enormous amounts of power from elected people to a bureaucracy that people don't face, and decisions are made or prepared to a large extent in such a way that you can't change them afterwards, by people who haven't been in elections. I therefore believe that it is an illusion to believe that we would have more influence over the comprehensive EU legislation we are importing by registering in the Union. So my next question to the Foreign Minister is: does she and the government think it would be wise for Norway to apply for full membership of the EU, in the light of the internal democratic problems I have described?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e752	It was not a ten-minute defence of the Commission; it was a ten-minute description of the situation. I am fully aware that the centre party disagrees with it – something else would really surprise me, all the time the centre party is not only against Norwegian EU membership, but also against Norwegian EEA participation. That's a point of view I'm very disagreeable with. I believe that for 25 years the EEA Agreement has ensured Norwegian interests in a very good way, and I am still looking for the so-called ‘Centre Party’ option – what it should mean, and how it should take care of Norwegian interests in a better way than what the EEA Agreement does. So I also said that both Parliament, the Commission, the Ombudsman and others are concerned with increased transparency, more proactive approach by the institutions and new methods of maximum transparency. I also suggested that these are assessments I agree with. You can always get better at it. But the fact that not everything is perfect today doesn't mean that everything is like the description of the Center Party. I think it is also important to bear in mind that the countries that are members of the EU are in the EU because they believe that it takes good care of their interests. So to the question of full membership of the EU. I probably don't reveal a big secret when I say that for the Right, we believe full membership is what can ensure even better influence. It's also a position left has. The Christian People's Party does not have that position, but we are all fully in agreement that the EEA agreement at present is the one that definitely guarantees our best interests. I think it is a huge paradox that in a situation where criticism of the European Union is that we and all citizens of the European Union do not have enough influence on legislative design, laws and rules, there should be a problem to take place around the table and be involved in the whole process. I've never understood that argument from the Center Party, and I don't think I'm ever going to understand that argument from the Center Party. I have full respect for the fact that there are different views on Norwegian membership. There may be many reasons for this, but just when the criticism of the EU is about participation, influence, democracy, Norway has opted to withdraw the possibility of full participation in the EU institutions and thus even more impact on legislative design. There is an election majority in Norway has taken twice. I fully respect that, but I think the argument from the Central Party is pretty hollow when it's used as an argument against membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e771	The representative of the Central Party, Emilie Enger Mehl, shall be praised for addressing this issue. Because although Norway is not a member of the EU, we are bound to a part of EU legislation through the EEA Agreement. That is why it is frightening to see that even the European Parliament, now even without skeptical British, is criticising the EU's legislative processes in such a crass way. The European Parliament uses very strong words in its resolution. For example, we find that Parliament strongly regrets the fact that the Council does not actively publish most of the documents relating to legislation, which prevents citizens from knowing what documents really exist, thereby preventing their right to ask for access to the documents. The right to information and understanding of legislative processes is fundamental in a liberal democracy. We have to have at the back of our heads that this is happening at the supranational level. The leading elected bodies in Europe, the national parliaments, have little place in the EU legislative process, although the decisions taken at EU level often have a major impact on the lives of ordinary people. The European Parliament, the elected body at EU level, which here criticises the Commission and the Council for the lack of democracy, has even chronically poor elections. At the elections to the European Parliament in the summer of 2014, the electoral turnout was approx. 42–43 pst - the increased correctly to 50 pst. in 2019 – which shows that the European Parliament is a body with a weak mandate to express the will of the people of Europe. Although Norway is not a member of the EU, we are thus bound up to a lot of EU legislation through the EEA Agreement. The Progress Party has a more nuanced view of the EEA Agreement than the Centre Party, because we clearly see that the EEA Agreement is generally a good one for Norway – not least for industry, which has free access to a market of over 450 million people. We recognise that we cannot choose and choose among what we like and do not like the EU's laws and regulations, but we are in line with the EEA Agreement's framework conditions. As a result, we have to accept that part of EU legislation is included in Norwegian legislation where relevant for EEA cooperation. This is how we ensure, for example: that we have the same standards for goods and services across Europe, which facilitates trade. At the same time, it is worrying that our agreements with the EU, including the EEA and Schengen, limit Storting’s ability to formulate policies. We are assured that the European Union's laws coming to the Stortinget have been treated and anchored in a good, democratic way. That is why the resolution of the European Parliament is worrying. Extensive democracy also applies not only to cooperation with the EU. There is a growing trend that international agreements and membership of international organisations undermine national democratic processes. Areas previously governed by democratic processes at national level are increasingly transferred in full or in part to international or supranational decision-making processes. A well-known example of this is the United Nations Migration Platform, where issues of migration and integration, which traditionally belong to areas over which the nation states decide, are raised to an international level. Of course, the Progress Party voted against the platform, as it is known, while the Centre Party, which is usually alert to the dangers of transnationalism, simply gave its support to the migration platform. It didn't surprise us very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e788	The EU began as an integration project where control of key resources for warfare was placed under an international organisation in the hope that it would prevent the intention to engage in other national states in Europe. Because of the origin of the organisation and the area of competence added to it, it was unlikely that the responsible would be technocrats, for market efficiency would stagnate if all the promises were to be debated politically and democratically. Of course, such a structure makes sense for steel and coal trade, but not when the same institutions are now developed to include civil and social rights. The Secretary of State said it's a paradox that it's a problem that we're going to sit at the table when the Central Party claims it's a democratic deficit. Then you have to look at what the EU is and has been. The continuous integration of national and international institutions has led the EU to have far greater executive power than national states. During the last decade, the European Court of Human Rights has developed legal principles that now apply to social, political and civil rights to such an extent that it has a strong influence on integration in Europe – the direction that integration should take. It makes individual parliaments in the various Member States far too weak to have an effective balance of power between the EU and the Member States. It turned out, for example. when the EU tried to stop euro prices. Then undermined a space for action to national parliaments with weak economies. Despite the fact that the members of the European Parliament are directly elected by the citizens of the European Union – as another moment to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it is true that, or at least indicates, modern research that people smoke at their international representatives according to national preferences. The reason for this is low trust in the European Parliament and the fact that national interests are still the most important for most people. This leads to a low turnout in European elections. EU institutions are still too technocratic because of their historical development. Expert groups and large lobby groups have a far greater impact on the legislation being developed than citizens have. Again, decisions in the EU do not reflect citizens’ preferences and wishes. What people vote on is rarely turned into politics, which in turn brings low up, low trust in the Union. As you can see, it is strange that a majority on the Stortinget want even closer ties, i.e. membership of a union with such a large democratic deficit. The EU has grown up to become a completely unique form of international interaction across borders. Clearly, it is a better project than opposing nation states in today's global society. We need to stand together against China and Russia, and indeed the United States, in order to be competitive, but the EU must improve democratic processes if we are not to end up with even an authoritarian regime in which decisions about the space of action of the individuals are taken by a few individuals in closed spaces. In an article in Bergen’s Official Journal, the Prime Minister wrote that Putin’s authoritarian regime and strong association with oligarchs are a problem for the EU. It may be right, but the emergence of hateful extremists is at least as scary, especially when you see how difficult it is for the EU to control countries like Poland, where right-wing radical legalism and nationalism flourish. If the EU is unable to govern its own members when they break democratic and liberal values, then it is time to evaluate critically whether the organisation wishes to protect the freedom of EU citizens. This is the organisation that a majority in Stortinget wants Norway to join by accepting – and it is recommended – the implementation of legislation that has been developed where lobbyists and some large organisations with a very high economic muscle and action power can influence far more than the elected representatives of the EU Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e805	After hearing the representative of Navarsete last, I have to ask the question: Does she believe that it is the EU or the countries responsible for protecting its citizens? I mean, it's the countries. EU cooperation is also to help. And when she uses expressions such as that the EU cannot control its own members, I have to say that I am a little confused about what the EU believes to be and not be. But the interpellant began his speech with the familiar words of Johan Sverdrup: All power in this hall. There was an expression in the struggle between kingly power and the Stortinget. Since 1872, when this was said, we have had some experience in this world that should ensure that international cooperation should be as binding as possible between states if it is to work. I have used it before, but when Norway got its freedom from Sweden in 1905, we had to sign a declaration that we should never turn the watercourse in Trysilelva. They were afraid of the water in the river Klarälven. It has narrowed down this room's space of action. I hope the Center Party believes that it was a reasonable victim. When criticising the European Union, which makes laws and regulations in common – most of them are actually very good – because we have to decide for ourselves, I wonder if you have such a Chinese attitude: not among you in our internal affairs. We just had one thing here in the hall where we discussed the law on penalties, and I didn't realize that the Center Party was against it. So that means that it's easy to put a poster with 'All power in this room', but one doesn't go far in reality until it becomes a floss. Of course, it is right that the EEA Agreement has a democratic deficit, as it is well known. We're not at the table when decisions are made. This is the weakness of the EEA Agreement. But we are involved, as the Foreign Minister pointed out, in the preparatory work, and if we were to replace it with a trade agreement, as the British have done, we do not get that opportunity. Is our influence on regulatory developments in the EU increasing or decreasing? I'll say less. One important difference between the EEA Agreement and a trade agreement that should worry about the batch of the interpellant is the agricultural situation. Now you can study the situation we would be in if we were to cancel the EEA Agreement and negotiate a trade agreement. We can study it in the United Kingdom, because that's exactly what they've done. Now we're negotiating a trade agreement with the United Kingdom, and what do we experience? Yes, we experience agricultural organisations that are on the verge of fear that we are ‘sacrificing’ agriculture against fishing interests. That is what is the difference between the EEA Agreement and a trade agreement: in the EEA, when we negotiate Section 19 on a little more cheese and hortnesia into the quotas of Norway, agriculture is, after all, protected. They cannot play the agricultural interests, their offensive interests, against our offensive interests, whether fish or trade. That is what we now experience in the negotiations with the British, and it will only be a kind of dry exercise if we are going to go to negotiations with the European Union about the same thing. Then everything is on the table, and we have to balance the interests. I would be very worried if I were a farmer. That's why the Farmer, at least the ones I'm talking to there, asks us to protect the EEA Agreement from being cancelled. That, I think, is a perspective – in terms of the alternatives we are facing – that the interpellant party should really take over and think through when they use all possible approaches to try to weaken the credibility of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e820	It's been an interesting debate. In fact, I am a little surprised that even the European Union's workers in the Labour Party and the Right are unable to see that it is quite serious for Norway when the EU's own institutions and bodies are so undemocratic that there are inside notifications. There is no nuance in the debate as to the importance of this through the EEA Agreement. Instead, it ends up with, as in the previous speaker, a defense for today's connection, without reflecting anything about the issues that form the basis for this interpellation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said in his previous post that she did not understand, and also never came to understand why the Central Party thought it would be a problem to take a seat around the table and be in the whole process. She further argued that participation, influence and democracy are what we have said about ourselves by not being a full member of the European Union. But that is precisely what I have been trying to make visible in this interview, that participation, influence and democracy are not something that the citizens of the EU countries have, even if they are a member of the EU. That's the whole point of the interpolation. And with regard to this illustrious table that is being discussed by EU members, both the representative Svein Roald Hansen and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have mentioned, the Central Party believes that it is largely an illusion, precisely because it is impossible for EU citizens to influence or have access to the processes. The resolution of the European Parliament of 10 February states, inter alia: that they deeply regret that the Commission and the Council insist on holding meetings for closed doors without sufficient justification. It is Krass' criticism that has been known for many years. I find it problematic that the Norwegian Government is not more concerned about these issues. When the EU is swept into democracy by the EU's own representative, by the European Parliament itself and by judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Central Party considers that the Norwegian Government should take it much more seriously. We import thousands of these rules into Norway through the EEA Agreement, and the standards in Norway are openness, democracy and transparency, which I do not believe is the basis for many of the rules we adopt here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e831	As the interpellant says, it has been an interesting debate in many ways, something that, to some extent, makes some fairly clear dividing lines that we were well aware of from before. With regard to the Norwegian legislative impact, there are very many resources and instruments that need to be combined in order for European policy to be effective. This is why several coordination areas have also been established within the Norwegian administration, which it is important to be aware of. The government also attaches great importance to consultations with stakeholders in EEA and EFTA work, and it is its own advisory bodies with representatives of both parliaments and the social partners that are involved with the authorities of the EEA and EFTA countries. Not least, we have talked many times in the past about the importance of Storting's own work, both in the formal bodies and in the informal party contacts, which is an essential part of the Norwegian influence, as well as the completely informal channels we have. One example is the Road Alliance network, where we work with some like-minded countries for example. improving safety and working conditions in the transport sector. Then I would like to repeat what I have said twice in the debate, namely that it is obvious that there is also a need on the EU side to improve both democracy and transparency. But the fact that these are improvement points doesn't mean that the description of the Center Party is correct. I think it is a rather bad claim from the Central Party to say that participation is not a matter for the citizens of the EU countries. EU citizens would never accept that. It's also said that the table we're talking about is sitting around, to a large extent is illusory and non-existent, and that it's impossible to influence and have insight. Well, I mentioned in my main post some figures on the transparency given in both the Commission, the Council and Parliament, which I believe can serve as a good example of the fact that the Central Party wants to draw, not votes. As the representative Svein Roald Hansen said, the United Kingdom has declared very much of the influence we have under the EEA Agreement. They are now a third country, but a third country with less influence and less involvement in regulatory design than Norway has. It's a conscious choice on the part of the British, and I respect it, but we on the part of Norway have not wanted to say from us the possibility we have of influence. I think we can all agree, although the principle of all power in this Chamber is firm, that there are also regular warnings and criticisms against the Norwegian political system that it may be difficult to follow both legislative processes and other processes. It may not be unique for the European Union. But I'm saying that the picture that the Central Party is drawing is not correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e847	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e863	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e870	The safe construction of Norwegian nuclear installations and the management of nuclear waste is a major and important matter – perhaps not a matter that separates the parties so much, but it is a major political matter anyway. The nuclear effort in this country has been part of the industrial journey and modernisation of Norway after the war. Now we're left with four reactors, one in Halden and three in Kjeller, and we have many different types of fuels, but not so much fuel. It's a big challenge to deal with it in a good way for the future. All the reactors are now closed, and the Norwegian nuclear plant is in a new phase, where we are going to have a reduction in nuclear installations and waste management. Now, when we're going to clean up after the nuclear business, this is a very long-term job. The government estimates that as many as 15 increases in future will be involved in decisions and appropriations related to this clean-up work. The clean-up costs are estimated at approximately 21 billion. kr, and the work is assumed to last between 50 and 60 years. I believe then, and the Committee also believes, that it is quite important that we lay a good foundation for the work that will last so long and cover so much. Therefore, we need to ensure that clean-up takes place in a way that ensures health and safety and that provides security and predictability for the communities concerned – not only today but also in the course of the process – as well as for the various actors responsible for this. The State has now established Norwegian nuclear decommissioning, NND, in Halden, which is to be responsible for the decommissioning of nuclear installations. Now it is important to ensure that these are good competences. We have said that the transfer of competence from IFE to the NND should take place as early as possible, and I hope the government will follow it up, just to ensure its competence. There is a lot that still needs to be investigated and clarified. The government is clear that they have submitted a message very early in the process, and I want to give recognition to the government for that very thing. I think it's good. At the hearing in the Committee, a number of actors called for a national strategy for the implementation of decommissioning itself, so that one had a time horizon and a line for it. We have proposed this together with the SV and the Center Party, but unfortunately it does not seem to be a majority for that. We think that's a shame. In order to ensure the necessary predictability and progress, it must be established that the State takes full responsibility for the clean-up and covers all costs. That's a very significant point. It is therefore very gratifying that there is a majority for that very thing, consisting of the opposition in the Storting, which determines that the government has to base this on the further work. The government is also asked to provide a long-term financing plan for the Storting. I think that is quite a crucial point, precisely because it will create predictability for host municipalities, for the environment, for the actors involved, etc. That is why I am a little surprised that the government parties are not in favour of supporting this decision. The minority solution, to which the government parties have committed themselves, is that IFE will continue to contribute financially to the clean-up in the future, but we believe that it will not provide the necessary predictability. Although there is not much money, it is enough to doubt how this should proceed in the course of the process. We also believe that this disturbs the polluter-pays principle. I mean very clearly that the majority have affected this in such a way that it does not have consequences for it, but we establish an important principle for precisely predictability in the continuation, because it is a big and important matter. In addition, we believe that through decommissioning there may be many business opportunities that we should seize. It can be important competence, important processes to which we gain good experience and good association, and we believe that it must be worked in a targeted and clear way in the course of the process. Unfortunately, we have not been given a majority to create – let's say – a business strategy out of this. Even though we are in an early phase, I hope that at some point we can get into a phase where we look at the potential for nutrition and make more conscious use of them through the large and demanding process that we are now going through. As I said, maybe 15 grand is going to work on this in the future. It's a big and important thing. We're going to find solutions that last for hundreds of thousands of years, so it's a big and important political thing. I think maybe the most important thing we're doing now is to make it very clear that it's the state that has the full and the full responsibility for the cleaning up in such a way that no one in retrospect can question how this is to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e893	Would the representative like to comment on the proposals of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e898	Yes, the representative will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e903	Then the representative of Terje Aasland has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e908	I would like to start by thanking the case spokesman for the successful completion of work in a major and important matter where it is definitely crucial that one has a broad majority behind the main thrust of the big message, and it has one from the Business Committee in this setting. It's been a good process with information seminars, with hearing. The centre party has been visiting NND in Halden and has had a lot of exchange of it. But that's a few points I want to point out. First of all, the Central Party believes that it is right that the State assumes full and complete financial responsibility in this matter. It's a little surprising how the government party manages to do this to a question of whether it's the case that the forurein-payer-principle should be in force or not. It's like they're writing themselves. They're talking about about 2 pst. It's about an act that shouldn't be in the future, and it's about an act where it has our state framework for what pollution has been allowed. So if one pays two psts, it's the forureinar-payer principle as debt. So if it's the state taking responsibility for what the state has done here, it's not the forureinar-payer principle. It stands out as something strange. We're busy with the important business that IFE has, and we want the funds in IFE to go for the purposes that they have, and not for cleaning. Furthermore, as the case-leader was concerned: when it comes to business development, we want to see what is the potential in this, and we want to have a national strategy for decommissioning. There are a lot of difficult things that lie ahead of us in this case, and that you don't get into here, among other things. the future storage issues. I'm not going to go into it any more than to point it out. Then I want to – and have a little pleasure in – point out something that I think is a mistake from both the department and the case manager here. It's said that it's going to be cleared for 15 grand in the future. Not to be difficult, but it means 15 years. I understand that it's a 50-60 year, and then it's a matter of giving money to this thing for 15 major periods. So it's also clear. It's a demanding matter, it's an expensive matter. There might be a case one would want one to be in addition, but there's a natural consequence that Norway was one of the first atomic nations on the track. Now it's time to clean up, and it's a job that you have to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e923	In 1948, the State established a commitment to nuclear reactor activities to consider the civil use of nuclear power in energy supply and transport, as part of the industrial journey and modernisation of Norway. This has led to the development of strong areas of expertise in this country over several years, and Norway has also taken an active part in international cooperation to contribute to the safe operation of nuclear reactors. Nuclear research makes important contributions to industrial construction and value creation in this country, including: related to renewable energy, cancer medicine and petroleum activities. Now the nuclear reactors are in Halden and in Kjeller's history, and we have to clean up. The waste is very difficult to handle and is one of the most dangerous waste we have. It will therefore cost a lot of money and take time before the job is finished. But it's very important that we get started. The left has fought for a long time to get the clearing work going, and we have provided increased budgetary resources to prepare for the work on clean-up even before we joined the government. It is therefore gratifying to stand here today and debate the real beginnings of the clearing work represented by the Storing Message. In 2016, the government decided that the State should, on a social and moral basis, assume co-financing responsibility to ensure safe clean-up after the IFE’s nuclear activity, but that IFE should contribute annually to co-financing and clean-up with funds from research activities and pharmaceutical production. IFE has assumed its responsibility as a polluter and set aside funds in a separate decommissioning fund since 2013, and I believe that it is right that these funds should be used in the clean-up work in addition to the state funds. If the State were to take responsibility for all the financing of clean-up costs after the IFE’s nuclear activity, this would be a breach of the polluter-pays principle. It is important for me to stress that we want the state to cover about 98 pst. the costs of cleaning up the nuclear waste. It is important to provide for a rapid transfer of responsibilities and tasks from IFE to NND, so that we ensure state control of the processes and a clear responsibility. Moreover, it is very important that we take care of the valuable competences built up during the transfer. In the Left, we are committed to maintaining and further developing the nuclear competence of IFE, especially because it is essential to ensure a successful clean-up process, but also because its competence can contribute to important industrial development and increased value creation related to the decommissioning and management of waste. Now it is important that we remain united in the safe dismantling of the Norwegian nuclear installations and in the management of nuclear waste. We owe this to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e936	I agree with the case rapporteur that this is a major and important matter – perhaps bigger and more important than many are aware of – and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on the main points. I also agree with the representative of the Central Party, Mr Pollestad, that perhaps the most difficult debate is ahead of us, namely when we have to talk about where this is to be located. I think that could be the mother of all localization debates. The reason I took the floor was that the representative from the Central Party got principles to appear as something relative – it's only 2 pst., it's only a few million and therefore it's not the principle that the polluter pays that is being challenged. But it is not that principle is a relative size – a principle is a principle. Since 1953, the Institute of Energy Engineering has, rightly under a different name, been a private foundation, a commercial operator, and had significant revenues. During a Workers' Party-led government in 2011, the State assumed financial co-responsibility on the condition that the IFE would establish a mechanism to allocate funds for the same purpose. It is a direct implementation of the polluter-pays principle. To release IFE from it is to release them from that responsibility. It is contrary to the pollution responsibility that underlies the pollution law. The fact that the State assumes co-responsibility does not mean that the State should take full responsibility for funding and distinguish between responsibility and funding. When the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, said that this is a work that does not need notification, it was precisely due to the fact that it is an IFE co-financing. It's now rocked and could also cause them to lower their feet. Then, according to the opposition – the proposers and the opposition, the majority – that here you write that it does not form the precedent, it does not form the precedent. But it's not like that. Cancellation decisions form precedent unless the case concerns something that does not have a transfer value. And this case has transfer value, because it's about pollution liability, and it's going to be able to be transferred to other cases. So the principle is broken, and it creates precedent, unless you can see why it doesn't lead to transferability to other things. We are aware of the decision taken by Stortinget in relation to the whole and full responsibility of the state. Otherwise, we are pleased that there is a large and broad consensus so far in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e949	It is quite right, as the representative Pollestad pointed out: it is estimated that during the next 15 major periods we will have ad hoc work to decommission Norwegian nuclear reactors, in line with the staging message that we are now dealing with. 15 grossing-up periods amount to 60 years in advance. If we cut back 15 periods of growth, we're in the 1960s. Then Norway was as a NATO member and neighbor to the Soviet Union characterized by the cold war that one to an ever-fearing would be warm. Einar Gerhardsen was inside his last epoch as prime minister, and Norway was looking for activity that could give our nation wings and wealth. In 1960 it was also 12 years since a total accumulation gave its support to the nuclear activity of the Institute of Energy Engineering. Since then, the IFE has contributed to creativity and delivered important innovation in medical technology, renewable energy, petroleum technology and industry. But the activity has also resulted in a clearing work that we in the Christian People's Party are very happy that the government is taking seriously. The paper we are dealing with today is the government's strategy for the reduction of Norwegian nuclear installations and the management of radioactive waste after the IFE's nuclear activity. The communication contains complex professional assessments and several issues still need to be addressed. These include elements such as fuel management, landfill construction and location of treatment and heating facilities. Given that government appropriations have increased, it makes sense to have a broad strategy and approach to work, and therefore the government's communication is both important and good. Because it is also estimated that the Storting will be involved in the clean-up work for 60 years to come, it is further important to have a broad connection to the notification. This work is expensive enough from before, and at least we don't need costly processes created by us in Stortinget. Therefore, it is gratifying to note the broad political consensus on the content of the Single European Act. Part 2 of the Communication describes the Government's plan for the decommissioning of nuclear installations. The government principle is that every country and every generation must clean up their own waste. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the government is in favour of international cooperation and knowledge acquisition. On the trade day the nutrition committee had on 19 January, we heard experiences from other Nordic countries that have undergone the same processes. The cleaning work takes over Norwegian nuclear decommissioning. The degradation and cleanup are important here at home, but it also has an important purpose out there. Of course, we insist on principles that are clearly enshrined also in the Granavolden platform, to cooperate with allies to intensify the efforts for active, balanced, irreversible, mutual and verifiable disarmament of nuclear weapons within the framework of the non-proliferation agreement. Otherwise, I notice that the opposition believes that the state should take full responsibility for the economy in terms of cleaning up. It must therefore be mentioned that the State already finances 98 pst. I find it particularly remarkable that the environmental party SV does not find it reasonable to stick to the polluter-pays principle. All in all, we believe that this is a very good big message. With this we can look back at the nuclear activity in Norway and be grateful for all the creativity and will for innovation that has taken place. But we have to look forward with this and take responsibility for both degradation and clean-up. We don't know what Norway will look like in 60 years, but we want to know that at least today we took important steps in the direction of clean-up and management of nuclear waste and the decommissioning of nuclear installations. It's our generation's duty, and it delivers the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e970	The nuclear activities of the Institute of Energy Engineering are a demanding, long-term and costly task for the State. The process must be planned thoroughly. It must be implemented within all national laws and international guidelines. And it has to be implemented safely and in such a way that it guarantees confidence in the population. The Storing Communication ‘Safe construction of Norwegian nuclear installations and management of nuclear waste’ provides a basis for the clean-up process. The notification will be followed up by new investigations, detailed plans and proposals for the Storting in the decades to come. I am pleased to note that the Business Committee significantly concludes on the problem description in the notification and government's plans for the clean-up work. A cross-political understanding of the challenges of clean-up I believe is a prerequisite for achieving good solutions and a good process. For progress in work and control of costs, it is essential that the plans do not need to be changed unnecessarily. The process risk of this clean-up work is also significant. The various investigations and processes must be well coordinated and in line with an overall national strategy. I note the desire of the Joint Committee to develop a national implementation strategy for the clean-up process. Given the cost of the clean-up work, all major decisions will need to be anchored in the Storting through the annual budget proposals. I take note of the Committee's wish for a long-term financing plan, but recommend that it be drawn up only after we have gone a little further in the investigation and have a better understanding of the overall cost picture and the annual budgetary needs. I also note the wish of the Business Committee to transfer the nuclear sector from the Institute of Energy Technology to Norwegian nuclear decommissioning in January 2024. I share the objective. Whether it is possible depends on the time it takes to prepare and process a fully-fledged concession application. The current assessment is that it's hard to do it faster. The notification focuses on health, the environment, safety and security aspects of the clean-up process, and emphasis is placed on these considerations which must be crucial for when transmission can take place. But I would like to contribute to the good coordination of state agencies, so that the transfer period is as short as possible. I take note of the Committee's support in assessing the takeover of the properties where it is now to be cleaned up. ambiguities regarding responsibilities and decision-making powers in relation to the actions to be carried out in each area could hamper, prolong and exacerbate the clean-up process. I note that the Committee wants the Institute of Energy Engineering not to be involved in financing its part of the clean-up work. I believe that the decision violates the polluter-pays principle and the previous decision to grant the State co-financing responsibility. I consider it to be fundamentally unfortunate, but will of course follow up the decision that the Stortinget takes. The treatment of the gross domestic product today shows a significant consensus in the planning and work on the clean-up after IFE’s nuclear activity. I hope we can maintain much of that consensus when we are going to take the difficult choices related to the decommissioning of nuclear installations, the management, the location and storage of nuclear waste. It could contribute to the achievement of the Communication’s objective of a safe and cost-effective reduction and termination of the Norwegian atomic adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e992	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e997	Let me first say that I was happy when the Council of State stressed that she would follow up the decision, because that means an incredible amount. When the representative Eidem Løvaas spoke, one could believe that he urged not to follow up the decision. In that case it would be extremely unfortunate. I think there are few cleanup works that can be equated with the cleanup we are about to carry out, in terms of both size, the basis for what we are going to clean up – it is largely initiated by the state and state activities – and not least the duration. It is also an essential factor that the government itself writes in the biggest message that ‘IFE, which is an independent foundation, is also not suitable for being responsible for the clean-up from a government management and control perspective’. The government itself acknowledges that IFE should not have that role, so I am glad that she underlines it. Can she just once again confirm that the government will follow it up quickly, and establish that the state takes that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1004	After all, a government council must deal with the decisions of the Stortinget, and this, as the representative says, is one of the largest, if not the largest, cleanup works in history. We're starting in many ways now with this big message, and it's the first step on a very long way. That is why it was important for me to have this big message delivered so early. This is something we need to have broad political agreement on for many decades to come. There may be some political disagreements about small things, and we have to deal with that, but basically we have to have the Storting behind us when we're going to start this important work. Although, of course, I have to deal with the Storting decision, I would like to stress once again that I believe it is an important part of the polluter-pays principle that IFE also bears part of the financial burden, even though they cannot bear all of this heavy burden in any way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1011	Now the Stortinget says very clearly through the decision that it is the state that will take full responsibility here. One of the reasons for this is that it became very clear that IFE as an institution is an important player in the development of Norway, in both renewable industries, green opportunities, etc. The Research Council included: It is very clear that if one does not relieve IFE 100 pst., the IFE will become worse in both EU programmes and other types of funding related to important research activity in the future. Does the Council of State have any information that would indicate that what the Research Council says is wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1016	I think you can ask any technical industrial institute if they would come out better, for example. Horizon Europe if they had had a higher basic funding than they have today, and would have been given a yes from all of them. It is clear that the money they have available will be spent in the most reasonable way possible to achieve their purpose. But that doesn't mean they're also going to have a responsibility to help finance what's a very expensive and long-term clean-up after the nuclear waste they have as a result of their operations. I believe that what the Storting is now doing is across what the Storting has previously thought, that is, that the polluter should pay, and that it is a principle that has been established for a long time, which is now being broken. Even though I see that the majority doesn't want it to give precedent, it's like you don't decide when you give precedent. There's going to be times when private actors are going to point this out and want the state to take the entire bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1023	Now I guess I didn't get an answer to what was really my question. I asked if the Research Council's recommendations and clear comments to the Committee were incorrect, and if the Minister of Industry had information that in some way made it clear to the Research Council that the IFE would have a weakened role if they had a co-financial responsibility for the cleaning up was wrong. At least it was clearly clarified by the Research Council in connection with the hearing. What is important now, of course, is that a boat has a very clear idea of how to work with decommissioning, has a very clear strategy for how to implement it, and has a financing plan. Can the Minister of Industry now say something about the time she sees possible return to Stortinget with a somewhat clearer framework on progress plan and strategy and possibly a financing plan, which I realized was positive for the Minister of Industry to assess in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1030	What we've put in the big message now is as far as we can go now. So we're constantly working on new investigations, new assessments, and we have big decisions ahead of us. But I can't say from the pulpit today exactly when I can come back to it. It works well, it works continuously, and we will keep Stortinget continuously informed about what we think Stortinget needs to be informed about, in all the work that is now to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1035	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1042	I'm probably the one in the room who lives closest to the plant in Kjeller, and who almost daily sees the now shut down JEEP II reactor – or at least built where the reactor is. I want to take the opportunity to give recognition and praise to those who over 70 years ago started the work done on what is today called the Institute of Energy Engineering, IFE – important and significant people, such as Gunnar Randers, Jens Christian Hauge, Finn Lied and many, many more, who did an excellent job – and all those who do an excellent job at IFE today, first through what was called the Institute of Nuclear Energy, IFA, who changed the name to the Institute of Energy Technology, IFE, in the 1980s. IFE has played and plays a very central role in important energy and environmental research. One day like this, I think it is important to have two thoughts in my head at once. We're both going to have the story with us and be proud of it, and we're going to take responsibility for cleaning up what needs to be cleaned up. It is very important to be able to establish that the State will take full responsibility for that clean-up. It would have been totally unreasonable if IFE would take that responsibility. Yes, we just have to say that it would not have been possible for the IFE to take on such enormous work that is now ahead of us. We must both clean up history, and IFE must be able to focus on important work ahead. I will also take the opportunity to give recognition and praise to IFE, the Institute of Energy Technology, in their work, using what they have acquired for over 70 years, and taking it further in their work on research into renewable energy, battery technology, capture and storage of CO 2, solar energy, nuclear safety, material technology, radiopharmaceuticals and other key areas with which IFE is working. I just want to say it's a happy day. I want IFE to be happy with the work they're going to do, and I also want Norwegian nuclear decommissioning, NND, to be happy with the important clean-up job they have in front of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1060	Norway took an impressive seven-mile step into the atomic age in 1946, just a year after the end of the war. The history of our four nuclear reactors is a history of Norwegian engineering and foresight that deserves a greater place in our history. It's a story that shows that a small country like Norway can do wonders just for us. This is also a story where serious mistakes have been made. The 31-year-old defence minister, Jens Christian Hauge, was driving forward the project. Hauge believed that the reconstruction of the Norwegian defence had to be based on modern technology and involved in a more extensive modernisation of the country's industry and production. The starting point was that Norway was going to develop its own nuclear weapons to withstand the threat from the Soviet Union. The research on nuclear energy was a daring project. The politicians of the day hardly knew what opportunities the research would provide. The project was also daunting because Norway lacked everything to produce nuclear power. Experience from the United States and the United Kingdom showed that building a nuclear reactor would be very expensive, but our ancestors still started, at a time when there was a need to build up the country and the well-being of its inhabitants. When the reactor at Kjeller was opened in 1951, only five countries in the world had nuclear reactors — the United States, the Soviet Union, Canada, England, and France. It was a big technological event for a small country. During the opening a large number of prominent guests were present, led by our own king. The guests got a Viking ship in metal that had been made radioactive, as a gift. This kind of gift would hardly have been given today. In the beginning, it was a goal to be able to develop their own nuclear weapons. Later, research was turned against civil ends. The Institute of Energy Engineering has developed knowledge we benefit from in the petroleum industry, knowledge for the development, management and operation of complex industrial systems, and they have developed models that are used in international power trading and in many other societal areas. Knowledge of nuclear energy has also proved useful for research into medicine for cancer treatment. The program that was developed to produce our own nuclear weapons became important in our work on the international disarmament of nuclear weapons. Now it's time to wind up what was built 70 years ago. It's estimated to cost 21 billion. kr and will take very many years. We've probably earned the cost of dismantling, so it's going to last. We leave behind waste for many generations. I think we should take care of and further develop that technology and competence. We can do that by increasing the stakes on thorium. It's all right if we want to – and if our generation turns out to be as forward-looking as 31-year-old Jens Christian Hauge was 75 years ago. The installations must now be dismantled and processed. The cancellation message seems solid and thorough. It seems that we have developed a great deal of expertise in nuclear power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1081	There's agreement about, let's say, the long line in this case, and I'm very happy about that. It's very good that there's a broad connection to it. But to the last discussion, about the polluter-pays principle, I think it is important to stress that this is a very special matter, except what we normally handle, and that is probably only this matter it will be about in view of the state's having to pay. When, through the form of decisions, we are also very clear on this, I find it a little regrettable that both the Minister of Industry and, to the extent that the position is also trying to problem it. We're very clear that this should not form the precedent. It is also such that in other cases, as far as I can remember – it stands and falls on my mind – both in connection with the clearing at the Løkken mine and at Sleep mines, have taken full responsibility. But I'm not going to confuse those things into this. I believe that it is unusually important here that the state makes this statement. Because there are new thresholds, new issues to be solved, not least related to landfill and storage, where it is crucial that the state's role is very clear and complete, really, just to make sure that a local host and others can clearly know what a person is going into, and what processes are there. That is why it is important for the majority to stress the very principle that is in place and that is, hopefully, adopted. I think it is a pity that the Minister of Economic Affairs is debatable or problematic in that way. It should be in everyone's interest now that we get to do this in the way that the mass mass actually confirms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1091	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1108	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1115	The case concerns the location of the combined GIEK and Export Credit, which has been named Export Financing Norway, and which the government wants to locate in Oslo. This is a representative proposal from the Progress Party where you would like to localise head office and departmental offices to Álesund and Bergen respectively. I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on the matter, which at least at a certain point in the process was both good and fruitful. For the Centre Party, it is natural that these types of jobs are located outside Oslo. For this reason, we also have national guidelines governing this. The letter from the Council of State states that the government has made an exception to these rules because of the nature of the property and the risk attached to the enterprise. The Central Party believes that export financing Norway can well be located in the West – and should be located in the West – in order to be closer to the export markets that are to be established in this area. I don't see any reason to make any exceptions to the guidelines that apply to this. So it has been claimed that this is a wrong time to move it out on. Yes, but then you might ask yourself, Was it the right time to put it together if it was so important to make peace? The center party thinks it's possible to do both, and we have to move on so that we can get a location outside Oslo of these workplaces. The aim is not the workplace itself, the aim is to contribute to additional jobs in the maritime industry and in other export industries by bringing export finance closer to Norway. Once the government has located it in Oslo, I would like to thank you for saying that it should be added to the Groruddalen. In the Central Party, we also have the sense of decentralizing jobs internally in Oslo. We still think that there are other jobs than these that are suitable for locating in the Groruddalen. We look at us, and put forward a proposal that also means moving 200 other jobs from the Oslo Centre and locating them to the Groruddalen. It has been an important part of registering that there is still no decision on where to locate these workplaces. On the basis of that, I will deal with the proposals that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1132	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1137	There is good reason why this matter has received a lot of attention. The trade balance has fallen by almost 400 billion. kr in the last eight years, and we lose market shares internationally every single day. We use significantly less resources to promote Norwegian exports than the countries around us, and Norwegian companies experience an instrument that is not available, untransparent and in too many cases does not meet the needs of local businesses. It's a serious situation we're in as far as we're concerned. It is quite obvious that these challenges are crucial for finding good answers to where to go and where to go. It is very bad that the government, which had a review of the instrument back in 2018, has not managed to present a case, especially at a time when we so clearly need to strengthen our instruments, in order to scale up, create more activity, create more growth in Norway, but at the same time facilitate more exports. That's why, of course, it's understandable that there are issues like the one we're dealing with now and that it creates commitment. Those I have spoken to now in the affected business world around the West are sincerely concerned. They see an instrument that is not close enough, they experience an instrument that does not understand them, and they experience the same thing via GIEC and Export Credit as it has been until now. There are, of course, serious signals in this. That is why we have to make sure that those tools are better and stronger towards business, that they see business, that it is not like one saying that it is only those who have DNB on the team who get guarantees via GIEK. It can't be like that. It is about the governance signals, direction and speed that the Minister of Industry must give to the instruments that are actually intended to help Norwegian business not only to scale up but also to get into the world and to finance its export-oriented actions. We must ensure that good export finance schemes are established for green conversion, commercialisation, scaling up and internationalisation far better than is currently the case. That's why we also accepted that it's right to merge Export Credit and GIEK, precisely because there needs to be stronger instruments, instruments that are close to the people who work in businesses. We need measures to make the instrument for business more nutrient-oriented and customer-oriented, in particular measures that can simplify and make the instrument available to small and medium-sized enterprises. We're in a new era. The equipment, the Ministry of Industry, the Minister of Industry and the Government must recognise it and adapt the instruments accordingly, precisely to meet the needs of this case, which is not primarily about geography, but availability and help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1152	Should the representative address the Labour Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1157	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1162	The representative of Terje Aasland here drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1167	President! ‘The people of the North, it will be dangerous, it will bring power to others. [...] Therefore they go over the sea, over doubt, again they fight the North against the Great, against the Feather.” Our coast is export. That's how it has been, that's how it is, and that's how it will be. We think of Hardanger as a national romance, but really it's an export machine of tourism and of the metal industry. I look over at Framo, who exports pumps to the whole world's ship, and there's a representative from Austevoll in the hall, and we don't even have to mention what they export of food to the whole world. Once upon a time, the guarantee was a sword, a shield, and a fast boat. Now there are still fast boats, but there is more financial security. I would like to thank the proposers for raising a problem that is constantly up to date: how we ensure that the state's competence workplaces are located in the best possible way, and how we provide the best possible support for our exports. For us, there has been an important objective in this matter, while we have also been involved in the role of the new organisation as a hub in the Norwegian export industry, through guarantee and export financing. In addition, it is our responsibility to ensure good responsibilities and a good process. We have therefore come to the conclusion that we will give the proposers something right. It's a good idea to consider decentralizing this new organisation. In a combined organisation with the ambition to provide even better services and services for our export industry, it is necessary to consider locating parts of the competence closer to those parts of the Norwegian export industry that are not located in Oslo and Viken. And with respect for the exports going on here: our export industry is probably a more significant share of business than in other parts of the country. We believe that it will be better both for understanding and for providing services if we assess whether the new organisation can become more decentralised, representative and present. We see in many contexts, not least in terms of investment, that localization provides understanding, contact gives ideas, and cooperation can provide more export and better understanding of risks. Together, we believe that this will provide better services, more exports and better risk assessment. I understand that such processes as we see here can be disturbing to our employees. That's after all the people's work and livelihood we're talking about. When we now assume that a significant number of jobs are to be assessed to ensure a greater regional presence, it must be done in a form that ensures good processes and security for our employees. At the same time, we have an obligation to ensure that government jobs are distributed across the country, and therefore we cannot always choose the simplest path. Therefore, I also assume that the investigation we are about to carry out will produce a result that will give a greater regional presence of the new company, with a significant number of employees. A pooling should release resources that facilitate this and provide better services to our export industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1187	The basis for what we are discussing here today is, as I see it, a very sensible aggregation of Export Credit Norway and the Guarantee Institute for Export Credit. The pooling of these resources may, as the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee, make the offer easier and more accessible to those using the schemes today, and may hopefully make it easier for other new groups to make use of the offer. When we propose that the merged entity, Export Financing Norway, should have its head office outside Oslo, it is mainly about two aspects. First, Norway probably has one of the most centralised central governments in the world. All the 16 departments, very many directorates, underlying offices, names, beings, advice, supervision and other public glory are located in Oslo. The same is true of the central bank, the management of the oil fund, the Folketry Fund – and now also export finance Norway, which is proposed to be located in the capital. There is no way of how much power and authority to concentrate on one city, despite the fact that the wit is probably fairly evenly distributed across the country. For those who are historically interested, today's situation has clear parallels to the 400-year-old. Now it's not for Copenhagen you have to get the stamp and signature, but for Oslo. Part of this proposal is therefore about building up new competent, dynamic and value-creating environments elsewhere in the country than in Oslo. Secondly, it is about the fact that large parts of the market for the new stage are actually located along the coast. Four of the six most exported states are on the south coast and the west coast. At the same time, Rogaland and More and Romsdal are the countries that use the most GIEC and Export Credit respectively. The proximity of markets and customers is almost always promoted as a pretense when discussing industrial policy in this room. Now it's all of a sudden not as important, now it's for some reason the Grorud valley is being lifted up. I don't have one bad word to say about the Groruddalen, it's certainly a fine valley, but some particular connotations to the export-oriented business don't give it. However, Ålesund and Sunnmaere do so with their maritime cluster, with shipyards, design companies, shipping companies and equipment suppliers. A lot of the same thing can also be said about Bergen and the area around it. The government councils and government parties will probably say that they do not ignore the fact that a location outside Oslo can become applicable at a later date. That'll be very rare. Moving something that exists is much harder than moving a new merged ether. We have the chance now, that's now we have to arrest it if something is going to happen. If not, the present situation with the power of the capital will be cemented further. I would then like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party and inform you that we will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 6 and the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1202	The representative Sivert Bjørnstad then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1213	Now it's clean and nice up here, I can sign it. I would first like to thank the proposers for a timely proposal. This is, of course, a seemingly limited matter, but it concerns major issues. The starting point is that Norway is losing the terrain. The export share has been up. The trade balance is starting to grow weak for Norway. We need to build a completely different export right of business both on the business page and on the support page. We have been compared with other countries, with our neighbouring countries – we are far behind them when it comes to measures and aid for exports. While this happens, we see that we have great potential in this country. But there are signs that industrial trains are now passing because we're not fast enough. We don't have the tools that are good enough, that target the possibilities that we have. Liquid sea winds are one of the major future industries of Norway and could play a decisive role in all the industries currently linked to the petroleum industry, which can have new opportunities for the production and development of floating sea wind turbines. The government has not shown any strong ambitions. They've been on a pilot. Regulatory work takes a very long time. Battery production is another area where Norway has a lot of potential, but the government doesn't see the cloths properly. There have been criticisms by the government that one has not taken part in a European programme, the IPCEI, which will enable one to directly support the industries associated with it. A battery production project is already established. The government has also chosen not to participate in it. On green shipping, we've been playing far ahead because of forward-looking Westerners and throngers who from the county's point of view arranged to run elf ferries in rounds of purchases, but also in the area where we're far ahead, we're now seeing tendencies that we're being taken again, because the government doesn't open up at a higher rate and means of action that allow us to take more segments in, more boat types, etc. In terms of area by area, we need export rights, and in this area, export financing Norway, which is now to be called, will have a much greater and much more important role to play. For SV, it is crucial that they are both strengthened, that we turn our attention to export finance in Norway to the new, green, forward-looking industries and, not least, that one has closeness to the value creation itself. That is why we are considering a proposal today asking for the future organisation of export finance in Norway where an unautonomous choice of Oslo, but looking beyond the whole country, and seeing where the value creation is actually happening, so that one gets the closest investment that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1230	The representative of Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1235	First, I would like to thank the proposers for a particularly interesting proposal, which has many things in it. It is absolutely essential that we also continue to achieve climate change solutions in order to re-close the export gap and strengthen our tool. For Norway's wealth is built on hard work, an equal society, and the sum of all the good ideas that its inhabitants have converted into valuables. We're leading the world in a number of industries, such as: maritime nutrition. Oil and gas have contributed to making Norway a rich country, but this has also led to a major focus on a single industry. We haven't had to diversify our business, so we haven't done this before the last few years. This has led to Norway having an export deficit without oil and gas, and we make less money than we earn when we trade with the rest of the world. Over the past 25 years, we have lost export market shares in relation to comparable countries, and this cannot continue. That is why we are betting on new, green industries, and that works. Nordic mainland exports continue to have stable growth despite challenging years of pandemic management and lower economic growth at national and global level. Exports have been growing steadily since 2013. We must continue to strengthen our tool in order to succeed properly. That is why it was a good news when the Minister of Industry announced that GIEK and Export Credit were merged into Export Finance Norway. The aggregation shall facilitate the understanding, identification and use of the public export finance offer by industry. At a time when Norway needs to increase its export investment, this is good. The government has taken a number of steps to promote the export of Norwegian goods. The last operation was NOK 75 million for a new export unit to help connect the companies and tools with market opportunities in the world. The proposal we are discussing today is about the location of the merged unit. I am the basis for the relocation of several state jobs and have been on it for a long time, for example. When we last created parts of the Agriculture Directorate to Steinkjer, we moved the Peace Corps, now Norec, to Förde, to mention someone. GIEC and Export Credit have had very important tasks in managing the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. It will therefore be important to implement the ongoing consolidation in a way that does not affect the ability of GIEK and Export Credit to be a tool for export businesses throughout the country. However, it is important for me to stress the importance of good regional competence and knowledge of business. It is therefore important for the government to start an investigation with a view to establishing a stronger regional presence near the main export environments around the country. Export finance Norway will continue to contribute to raising Norwegian innovation and new technologies, which will help transform us from the oil-dependent economy into a green future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1254	The Government has decided to merge Export Credit and GIEK into a new establishment, Export Financing Norway, which will be operational by 1 July of this year. The merger has received broad support in business, and there is also a broad cross-political consensus that it is a good organisational approach. It will improve the efficiency of financial services to export-oriented Norwegian business. At the same time, it is a fact that large parts of business, maritime industries in particular, are now in the midst of the worst crisis of peacetime as a result of the coronary apathy. In such an extreme situation, it is essential not to create uncertainties about the framework conditions for access to capital in the form of loans, credits and State guarantee schemes for export-oriented enterprises. Two administrative bodies with a critically important function for Norwegian export companies will now come together and become a new, larger and more efficient organisation. It is itself a demanding process, and it is very important that GIEK and Export Credit maintain their ability to be a tool for export businesses throughout the country and to manage several temporary arrangements as a result of the pandemic. We believe that a relocalisation that coincides in time with bundling and crisis management could lead to uncertainties about the continuity of service production to industries that are particularly hard hit by the pandemic. Nevertheless, like the majority of the Committee, we believe that there is also a potential for increased efficiency through a stronger regional presence for new export financing Norway. We have noted the input from industry, particularly in the West and in More and Romesdal, which points to the benefits of a decentralised structure in which export finance in Norway has a strengthened geographical presence in regions that are the focus of export-oriented business. The savings bank Vest writes in its record to the business committee that a decentralised structure is beneficial to both capital providers and borrowers, and that geographical proximity between financial undertakings and business facilitates network construction and information exchange, thereby tending to reduce transaction costs and cost barriers to the provision of credit and capital. – These are arguments that we in the Christian People’s Party place great emphasis on. We are therefore pleased that a broad majority of the committee consisting of the government parties, the Workers' Party and SV today are promoting a proposal asking the government to establish a stronger regional presence for Export Finance Norway and return to the Stortinget with the matter. The same batches specify in a joint note that the regional office is part of the solution and that one can thus build on the possibilities of making State jobs more geographically independent and located in relation to the main export environments using the services of Export Finance Norway. This is a clear order that I know is well received at both Møre and Romsdal and other regional centre of gravity for export-oriented business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1275	The government brings together GIEK and Export Credit Norway to make it easier for our business and to have a more efficient export finance system. I record that the merger has been well received out there, and that it is working too hard to get Export Finance Norway, or Eksfin, operational from 1 July 2021. The establishment of Eksfin is part of our export effort together with the creation of a new strategic export unit. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on the importance of exports for value creation in Norway. The debate on the location of the exsfin has created quite a lot of commitment out there, and I understand that. Export finance schemes are important to our business. The recordings show that there are a lot of views about where Eksfin should be. I am pleased that the majority of the Business Committee agrees that this is not a fundamental issue of state jobs. In order to operate with export finance, it is necessary to know the business community well. Export finance users are exporters and buyers throughout the country and abroad. Expensives must reach both existing and new users and industries. It is important to help Norwegian business in transition and to produce new export companies. The exfine shall cover all the regions and industries which together constitute the export nation of Norway. I am in favour of finding out a stronger regional presence for Eksfin in important export regions. At the same time, we must bear in mind that we are now working hard both on bundling, on promoting new exports and on following up companies with different challenges. In addition, GIEK manages several temporary support schemes. And the total number of enterprises has approx. 140 employees. The most important thing is that new Eksfin operates export finance schemes in a good way, so that we succeed in promoting export and value creation in small and large enterprises across the country. It was important before the coronary crisis hit us, and if possible it is even more important now and in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1286	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1291	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is probably far from the worst department when it comes to the proportion of jobs in underlying establishments located in Oslo. Nevertheless, design and architecture Norway, Export Credit Norway, GIEK, Innovation Norway, Norwegian Research Council, Norwegian Institute for Water Research, Norwegian Space Centre, Patent Management, Standard Norway are all underlying establishments of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, and all are located in Oslo. Although Groruddalen is not Majorstien, Aker Brugge or Tjuvholmen, it is Oslo. So once again, the government, and the majority of the population, chooses to add a new branch to Oslo – and departs from the general rule in their own guidelines. What is the reason why the government, with the knowledge and will and without pressure from the Storting or others, departs from its own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1298	It is true that in the Ministry of Food and Fisheries there are also some underlying agencies and bodies located in Oslo. One of the companies we have located in Oslo, but also throughout the country, is Innovation Norway. So we see how important it is to have that contact with business across the country. In the case of Exsfin, there are various reasons why we have chosen to allow them to establish themselves in Oslo. First of all, because there are two units that are currently located in Oslo. This isn't moving anything to Oslo. There are two bodies that are in Oslo today, which are now going to merge. If we were to create this department somewhere else, after the experience of other emigrations, we would see that we had to recruit a lot of new people. It may be positive in some statements, but right now our business is in the situation that they need all the forces, put all the cloths on, and then we have to keep the people we have, to do the job that they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1311	In this case, derogations have been made from the guidelines on the location of state employment. Ein has made exceptions and said that this should lie in Oslo, and then a reason has it, among other things. with the ownership. Then my question is: what about the ownership of financing the export business that means that it has to lie in Oslo, and not, for example. in the West?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1317	There's been an overall assessment of this case, and one of the arguments I just had was that if we're going to move this out now, we have to expect – after the experience we have from other emigrations – that one has to recruit a large part of the workforce, that is, completely new people; that one does not make people move to the new location. It would be difficult as the situation is now, with the needs of business for these services. Then there's an assessment related to access to competence. The competence we now have in the new unit is something we especially want to maintain, precisely because they have had good continuity of competence, which I'm afraid we would have lost if you had moved out. But I fully agree that the wit is evenly distributed, and I fully agree that there is the potential for having people elsewhere in the country. That's why I want to look into building up local presence more closely in the large export regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1324	These are arguments that can be used to move a workspace out of it, but now they are available. I have praised that once one has chosen Oslo, one points to the Groruddalen. But then it says, ‘or in an equivalent area where the activities will contribute most to the development of Oslo and central municipalities in the Oslo area’. Then my question to the Minister of Industry is: can one guarantee that one with the government model will land on the Groruddalen, or is there only something you have done in this process now to tempt? And when can we expect a location to be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1336	This is not something that has been done in this process, it is government policy that we want to locate state-owned businesses that are in Oslo, in the Groruddalen or in other areas where it will have a positive impact on urban development. Now we do the rounds that we always do, and we have to do, in connection with the relocalization or localization of a new unit. That job is going on, but exactly when it's decided where they end up, I can't say here and now. Nor are we sure that we get them physically merged from the time they are combined as units. Having said that, I would also like to mention that we have now gone out and said that we are going to set up a new unit with the somewhat poor work title Business Norway, where we are clear that it is not to be located in Oslo, precisely because that is what the government's primary policy – to create government jobs outside the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1345	This matter has clearly shown us that there is a strong desire and a real need to have a stronger regional presence for our export financing. I think it's important to stress that this situation has been, with great distance, little availability and an export finance system that may not see enough the smaller businesses, we need to do something more immediately. Therefore, my question is: will the Council of State now, without delay, investigate how to get a stronger regional presence for Export Finance Norway and quickly return to the Stortinget with this? It will be crucial to clarify this issue, not least for the Western economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1352	I believe that the representative here is concerned with what I see as the very central thing in this. This debate has in a way two tracks, and the location trail may have been given the greatest attention. The second track is about understanding how the new export finance unit should operate operationally, how close it should be to business, a little independent of where it is located. In any case, they may not be everywhere in Norway, but they must have a basic understanding of how the export-oriented business operates and operates daily. I believe that the representative here is concerned with what I feel that the business community is much in demand. We're going to start that assessment and investigation, and then we're going to get back to Stortinge in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1357	I'm glad, and it shouldn't take very long to figure it out. Export credit probably has an office located outside Oslo already, and it is absolutely necessary that there be more of that type of location in the establishment of export finance Norway. Then it would be wise to do both at the same time, just to meet what has been the strong expression in this matter, i.e.: closer to the small and medium-sized enterprises, more knowledge of the many opportunities that lie around the country, working with local funding institutions, etc. There are many of them. Then my question is: will the Council of State now ensure that this discussion can take place in parallel with the establishment and establishment of export finance Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1364	I know that export credit has. I don't know if I'm going to call it an office – as far as I understand it, there's one person working in Ålesund. They are very pleased in Ålesund with this one person. It says a lot about his work capacity and how he feels to be close to the industry, and they have also received feedback about it. I know that the interim board in the new Exsfin is already concerned about this matter. We're going to do this, and then we're going to come back as soon as we have something to get back to Stortinget with. We're going to look at how we can facilitate a larger geographic presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1371	On the table now, in SV, we have put forward a proposal asking the government to sort out the future location of export finance, where one assesses places other than Oslo as well. So one doesn't automatically go to Oslo as head office, but also evaluates other places, and goes into it. The government party has not even supported it, and I think it's a little special, because the whole point is that we want an organisation, both a regional organisation and a central office of export finance, which is best suited to the need in Norway to secure credits, loan guarantees, etc. to the right of export. What is the reason why the government party won't even work out anywhere other than Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1376	The government has assessed this issue and concluded that its head office should remain in Oslo. I'm glad that the Storting joins it, precisely because it will give our new unit the peace that is now needed to get two cultures in two different units to become one. It will give them the peace that is needed now to really face a business that has great challenges as a result of the Korona, and give us the speed we need out of the Korona crisis, while I really believe and am concerned that with geographical presence it can be positive both for Eksfin and for our export industries. But when we're going to create a new unit to work on export, I'm quite clear that it's not going to be located in Oslo. It must be somewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1383	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1390	This is a good example of the fact that moving out jobs from Oslo is nice in party speeches, but when it comes to the play, it seems to be a lot harder. Here you have the opportunity to move a new unit, i.e. Export finance Norway, out of Oslo. So the majority chooses to focus on urban development in Oslo rather than take into account the parts of the country where these services are most actually used. It is from those who wear the shoes that this proposal actually comes about. They say that they need this institution more to see what needs are. It is good to hear that there is one person in Ålesund, and that they are very pleased with the person. So we think that he should have a lot more employees with him, who could have been there in the country where this offer is actually being used. Then we hear that in Ålesund there is no competence. Oh, shit! In Ålesund, we have NTNU, where we have Norwegian Maritime Competence Centre, which has some of the country's, and perhaps the world's, foremost expertise in maritime operations and industries, and which also includes economics. We have Nordea's fishing department. They have a seat in Ålesund. The majority of the customers are actually in More and Romesdal. Of the export credits borrowed in 2019, half were produced in More and Romesdal. In Bergen, Norway's School of Business is located, and it is a professional environment in economics, maritime and marine subjects at the University of Bergen and Højskulen in the West. In other words, it doesn't have competence. What it says is the willingness to locate this institution where users and customers are actually, where the conversion and export take place, and where there is a need for a greater understanding of the needs of these industries. That's why I'm disappointed that the Storting is failing here. It is well and good to listen to the Workers' Party, who say that there is a serious situation, and that there is a serious signal. But when it comes to the problem, you're not willing to do anything about it. The centre party has gone from running urban development policies in the Groruddalen to having now moved to the West again, and that is positive. But it is disappointing that the government is not now using the opportunity to move out the jobs of that part of the country where the largest value creation takes place, and where the customers of Export Credit, what is now Export Finance Norway, are actually located.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1400	Thanks to the proposers, because here we have seen an incredibly strong commitment, but we have also gained insight into the weaknesses of today's system. This is not primarily about state jobs, but about strengthening our export assets, so that we contribute both to progress in the transition and to increased income. Changes take place faster than expected. The climate challenge offers new opportunities where Norway has to be able to position itself. In many areas, such as CCS, hydrogen, ammonia and sea wind, value chains and markets have not been developed yet, and this also imposes entirely new requirements on the instrument, which they have to address. We learn that regional financial actors in risk assessment must closely interact with industries. It concerns technology and the market, but also new business models. In addition to food competence, treatment needs to be much more effective. Major players have a greater opportunity to choose other funding options, but that possibility does not have the same degree of potential for medium-sized enterprises in Norway. Export and financial actors also call for a more forward-looking approach with a view to reducing the amortisation time when businesses are at high climate risk, or looking at regulatory adaptations based on the challenges of different sectors or how different EU countries use similar support schemes. There is also a growing fear that more foreign funding will lead to technology being exported out of our country. We've also seen that 60 billion. SEK of GIEK's outstanding loan guarantees of a total of SEK 91 billion. kr is highly at risk of loss. These are the values of the community. Does this indicate that there is a good credit trade with regard to the use of public funds in today's system? It is an advantage to establish something new in the West that is adapted to the large export industries that also have the potential of the global green market. In the West we have maritime, renewable industries, CCS, sea food, sea wind, process industry and also furniture industry, all of which are dominant in us. We therefore have great expectations that the government will investigate what they have just said and that it will happen relatively quickly. It is a matter of getting closer links with local business areas, where there is a lot of exports, but also of moving forward in the new proposal to create a new unit to strengthen Norwegian exports, as we saw in the press release here on 19 March. It means a lot that we can increase export income, that we can be forward-looking. We have challenges both with climate and, not least, with increasing value creation and more employment across the country, and then we have to act quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1417	I hope that the most likely has been given the chance to read a brilliant article by the managing director Marit Warncke of the Bergen Food Council and leader Siv Remøy-Vangen of the Maritime Bergen in E24 today, who tells us about this proposal that we in the Advance Party have made, is a proposal they wholeheartedly support. This is for several reasons, including: that the industry needs someone closer to and understands the industry better than today. They point out the importance of having more exports out of Norway, that we are lagging behind the OECD countries, Denmark and Sweden, and that this proposal from the Progress Party is correct. I hope everyone reads it, especially the Workers' Party, as it is now sitting on the verge and can vote subsidiaryly for a proposal in the hall and make sure that all hope is not out with the voting tomorrow. So this debate always gets a rush of emigration elements in itself. Then I start thinking back on the good years between 2013 and 2017, when we had a popular government with the Right and the Advance Party, which was busy listening to the Storting in a completely different way from today's government. At the time, Left was a completely different game from today. When we hear the Minister of Industry today and remember how the representative of Skkelstad is talking about moving the Directorate of Agriculture out of Oslo and into Steinkjer, it is quite unlikely that it could be the same party four years later. We then sat in government and were busy working well with the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget. When they made good suggestions, we seriously evaluated them, and we stretched far to meet the Left. As a result, the government moved the Agriculture Directorate to Steinkjer. We moved state jobs to Förde and to Bodø, and we thought it was a good policy. It was a completely natural policy. So I'm disappointed that the government like Left is now a big part, not meeting the Progress Party in the same way, and not stretching to find solutions with us to allow Storting to influence policies like this. Especially when it comes to establishing a new device, it has a historic possibility to actually place it outside of Oslo. Now there's a plan to move her inside Oslo, to Groruddalen. I have nothing bad to say about the Groruddalen, which neither the representative Bjørnstad had, but I have now run around the Groruddalen, and the closest thing I find is something that reminds me of maritime industries, is Bislett Kebab, who has a seamatburger. That's the closest I found. Are we in the West and in Bergen, find us financial environment, we find DNB's head office for export, and we find Nordea's head office. We find enormous nutrients that match this supply. Therefore, I had hoped that either the government party or the Labour Party would have considered voting subsidiaryly, so that we could make a good decision to move this to the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1430	This issue has created a lot of debate – localisation of state jobs often does. This is also the case in this case. There are several considerations that need to be weighed against each other. It is close to industry, the recruitment of skills, the relocation of jobs and the professional environment. Not least it is the concern of those who work there. Because there are many reasons that can often be contradictory, a thorough investigation of the location should be carried out and not adopted in the context of a Document 8 proposal. Now, the fact that these two floors are in the middle of a merger process reinforces the argument of figuring out the relocation more thoroughly. It is in no way given that those who work there today will be included in a possible relocation container. It is not a favourable situation for Norwegian business that these floors are exposed to a massive leakage of competence in the middle of that process. In addition, we are in the middle of a pandemic and a challenging situation for Norwegian business. This is not the time to lose sorely needed competence. In fact, there is very little that suggests that we should adopt a shift of the new export finance right now. A lot can then be said about where the new export financing will be in the future. GIEK and Export Credit now have a total of 140 employees, who manage about 130 billion. kr. They have built up a solid environment of expertise, especially in finance. I record that there are many voices who want it to be for the West. Even I think these are strong arguments that it should be in Oslo. The financial industry is the strongest here, and it is not as easy to build a similar environment elsewhere. Then I see that the majority will investigate a stronger regional presence for export finance. I think that's a good idea. At the same time, we must remember that export financing is available for the whole country. Although the West is the largest export region, with Oslo in second place, proximity to customers is not necessarily the only argument. Export finance needs to work closely in these regions, but they also need to be more present in parts of the country that may not be equal to customers today, but that have the potential to be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1443	Once this discussion has been lifted from business in More and Romesdal and also other places in the West, it is because one sees the value of a stronger regional presence of the instrument and the combined GIEK/Export Credit, Export Financing Norway. Everything has been argued from moving the entire organisation out to regionalising the entire organisation into a more complex model where one has a stronger regional presence for Export Credit/GIEK. I think it would be good just to develop Export Credit/GIEK, or Export Financing Norway, that we are making sure to get a stronger regional presence. The proximity of the export industries is important. It's important to be close to where things happen. We are now in the midst of a very demanding process for many of these industries. We're going to go through the coronary apnea, and we're going out of the coronary apnea in a good way. We have a business that will meet many of the challenges behind this pandemic. It'll take a lot of conversion for a lot of people. We have to go through a green transition and over to low and zero emission solutions. Just in these processes, an instrument that understands business, which understands the challenges facing business, will be necessary to facilitate it as well as possible. Therefore, I think it is incredibly important that export finance Norway finds an organisational form that brings them closer to the export industries. That's why I also think it makes sense to have a thorough and proper investigation of what a majority now supports, namely how we can ensure a stronger regional presence for this merged organisation. As I said, it's not primarily about the relocation of state jobs, although it's also a good point in itself. It's primarily about developing the organisation to get something better and even more organized for the business you're serving, than what we see today. There are very many good reasons why the office in one of Ålesund should get bigger, and as a representative of More and Romesdal I want to put in a good word for it. A very large part of the export industries is found in our state. We're incredibly dependent on them. The new jobs are created within the export-oriented industries of More and Romesdal. Therefore, I believe Ålesund is a very good starting point for assessing a more regional presence for export finance Norway. I think the investigation will show that, too, when that day comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1456	Of the less important things in this regard, that one has joined Export Credit and GIEK and formed Export Financing Norway, is that the Committee has praised the name choice, which is both ground-to-ground and understandable. Then it's a little frustrating to hear the council stand here on the pulpit and call this Eksfin. It's obvious here that when you have a name that is understandable, the government has to come up with an abbreviation that is completely incomprehensible. It's to have fear of clarity, and it shouldn't have. I am also pleased that the Progress Party has made it so clear that they will support proposal No. 6 from the Center Party. It shows that there is movement in this case. It's possible to get a multiple for this. The Rogaland Workers' Party has been very clear that they support a relocation to the West. Then I hope that they exercise pressure so that the vote of the Labour Party is influenced by this. In the Right it boiled, there were elevenville states – Sveinung Stensland in Rogaland, Helge Orten in More and Romesdal, there was no way of how hopeless the Center party was in this case. But when we propose to move Export Finance Norway to the West, they vote against. They'll vote against it. I think it's important to look at what people say in the media, when they can create games and specks with the help of communication departments that get bigger and bigger, and what they vote in this room. It's when we say this that we have the ability to decide how to do this. It is not when a game is created in the press that this is determined. It is not when county layers have their state instances that this is decided. That's when the party groups vote. As it looks now, it is possible, if the Right or Workers' Party wants it, that proposal no. 6 from the Center Party, actually gets multiples. Then I would like to stress that the Centre Party has put in several proposals that create the right balance between city and country. We are the ones who are able to cope with the difficult balance. How should we manage to move jobs to the outskirts of Oslo while building up the industry in the West? It manages our proposals, and that's what's on the table at the moment. The exposure has been great, and I want to give a lot of praise to the businesses in the maritime environment along the coast. It is touchingly beautiful to hear that the business community in Bergen says that the most important thing is not that these jobs come to Bergen, the most important thing is that they come to the West. That is what this is all about. It's not about the 140 workplaces, it's about the meaning of the rest of the exported business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1473	After listening to this debate, it's hard to know at all what the end is going to begin, but it struck me what Ivar Aasen once wrote: 'No, little knows it's not going to do, a faith must support up below'. It's probably the same threat that characterizes the plurality of this case when one is standing here celebrating that one is going to get it defined as a thorough explanation. It is the type of distribution that follows if one adheres to the state guidelines for the location of workplaces – which the government has actively opted out, which the Storting could have corrected today, but which also the Storting actively well away. There's nothing but the virgin plural trying to do in this. It is commendable that the government is concerned about how users should be affected by the possible relocation of jobs, which could have contributed to strengthening the environment of expertise in the private sector out there where they are already located. But the users aren't afraid of it. Those who depend on access to this capital to continue developing their businesses are not the ones who go to the barricade and say that we have to keep the competence environment in Oslo to a large extent. On the contrary, those who say first of all that by moving this closer to the users, closer to the companies in the private sector, yes, not only can a person gain more competence and understanding in the tools for how the private sector works, but he can strengthen the whole basis for, for example, this. the maritime clusters of the West. All these arguments being used against this proposal, I have already seen in every question about flagging out. The difference between now and now is that the government has sidelined them and adhered to its own guidelines – as one so actively well away today. It is a paradox when users are willing to take the risk, while the government and the Labour Party are more concerned about driving urban development in the Grorud Valley, while trying to do so for the benefit of businesses. There is some kind of double communication that isn't threatening. The export-right industries along the entire West Coast had benefited from an instrument that understood more fully the challenges, for example: when all or a large part of the fleet is at berth, and as a clearer way to adjust the course along the way, which also meant that a catch built a larger trade union environment. Today, the Storting is playing away the ability to achieve just that, with an argument that doesn't stand for three seconds once.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1486	This is in many ways two debates in one. In order to spend some time on the first, on export finance, there are many ways in which a person just wants to bet on the representative Dale was in town – to make sure that the maritime industry on the coast actually has the opportunity rooms, and that one does not start to jump around in the middle of a pandemic. This applies both in a permanent pandemic, where ships are ashore, and also how we are going to deal with it afterwards. In any case, it has been my entrance not to stress what is case number two in this, as I hear that not least the representative Njåstad places great emphasis on this. There is no doubt that I am particularly in favour of a general relocation across the country, based on a good footing strategy based on the following: breaking up where one has existing good trade environments and existing business life associated with it. I was then asked by the representative, Listhaug, to say that this is urban development and to argue that it is urban development. No, because when you don't do anything right now, it's just considering the industries that are struggling. It's primarily like the representative Grung brought up. I'm going to be the first one to join in moving things, because I think one has to have regional presence of state jobs. But it's not a contradiction to what the Minister of Industry said, even if you want to interpret it that way. I must be allowed to say that it is very interesting that the representative Pollestad has a little lesson for us in gambling. Yes, I listened with great interest to the special representative Pollestad, who is the name of the game, because here we have an expert who knows most about it. Well, that's exactly what we don't want. What was the Central Party in the government done from relocation? It was the Veterinary Institute from Oslo to Ås – three miles. Once we've done this, we've got a lot more. I'm not going to repeat it. I could bring some extra. There are far more jobs that have moved out of the Oslo area with today's government parties and also at that time with the Progress Party. Then the answer was that we had to have a proper investigation of what we were going to move, and we had that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1499	To start a little bit with the political game: there are some people here who might not have taken exactly those words in their mouths. Then we can refer to the Zenterpartiet, which stood in the Groruddalen – Oslo Centerpartie wanted it to be to the Groruddalen, and there was certainly also the Zenterpartiet leader and supported that very principle. Afterwards, they have considered urban development through this case with regard to Groruddalen. If someone's kind of playing a political game with it, it's the Center Party. I think it is a pity that the Progress Party, which has been the proposer here now, is taking a level of debate that talks about urban development in the Groruddalen and kebabsjappa up at Bislett. That's not what this is about. This is about making instruments and export financing better and stronger. This debate has made it very clear that the situation is not satisfactory. It should be noted by the Minister of Industry. They must be closer to small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a new time. The oil and gas industry risk that has been taken and focused on the West — it is a new era. We're going to do something else in the future, we're going to export something new. They have to be closer to SMEs. They need to have more knowledge of the new opportunities that lie not least in the West but also elsewhere in the country. They must work with local financial institutions, including savings banks. In a way, we must support the bottleneck that is now there, and which is perhaps real, that if you do not have DNB by its side, you will not be guaranteed its export financing. Of course, these kinds of encumbrances cannot be encroached on Export Finance Norway. It's serious, we have to do something about it. Then they have to work faster. I hear about months of decision time from GIEC and Export Credit. The new company must be faster on the ball, and it must be easier to get to the table. I think the majority position here is really very wise. It is very clear that we are going to investigate a stronger regional presence for export finance Norway. The working party may well conclude that we should have it, based on what we already know, but it has to be investigated and put into a proper system. We're the first to end it because it means something. I would like to stress that the other instruments for business – Innovation Norway, Siva, the Research Council, Enova – should also have a stronger regional focus in the continuation. It's about scaling up, giving business more opportunities before they go on export, and before they need export finance. That is what provides the very basis for one finally needing export finance. This case is important, and it is important that a not trying to create rhetorical games out of it in a way that destroys the whole case and what has been expressed very clearly from the Western industries in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1512	It's a first time for everything: it's the first time I fully agree with Aasland's representative in his entire post. Right is for the relocation of state workplaces. I think we have, too. I would like to mention three rather recent examples: election supervision, consumer supervision and food surveillance. All of these are new. So there's a difference between moving and creating. I also think that the representative of the Progress Party, Jon Georg Dale, said quite well: it's about building skills, and it takes time. There is a process that needs to be reviewed, and you cannot do this in a Document 8 proposal. I want to stay a little bit with the benefits of working in the state. One of the major benefits of working in the state is just security. Yes, we're going to change, we're going to make it more efficient, we're going to even move, but you're going to have to stop standing and brush your teeth on Tuesday, January 12 and listen to the news at noon. 7 that the workplace should be moved because someone has promoted a Document 8 proposal. This is not how we exercise responsibilities in the state. And that's not what the Center Party was about, a decentralization. It's at best a re-centralization. Both Ålesund and Bergen are definitely central areas. We may end up there in the end, that it should be there once in a while, but first we're going to figure out, then we're going to build these environments of competence, which the proposers themselves were involved in, and then we're going to have to have a proper process, and then we're going to see what the result is. It's not that when we vote tomorrow, we put a dot for this. This is a process that is going to go over a long, long time. But to rediscover an environment of competence in Oslo now, when you might be in one of the most difficult stages in many, many years, is probably not what the industry sees for itself. I think they're thinking something more long-term, and I think they too can live well with what's going to be the result of the vote. We also see how such a process becomes hopeless when it ends up as a Document 8 proposal. This Document 8 contains assessments of moving – think of a number – 200 jobs up to the Groruddalen. You don't know which, you don't know when, you don't know how. It is also stated in this proposal that the NRK should be placed in the desert. That's not what we're going to do. This has to be done properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1527	Localisation of state workplaces is an important theme in itself, where these workplaces are to be located with the environmental impacts they create for local construction and activity. When it comes to this case of merging GIEK with Export Credit, it's a very important dimension as well. In the meantime, it's a good idea to have a directorate or head office here or there, but when it comes to financing our export industries and exports, it doesn't matter. There is an obvious advantage to the environment that will help and stimulate more exports, where many of the export-right industries are successful. The West is thus calling for the location of export finance, from now on called Export Finance. I myself come from More and Romesdal and know that Ålesund is an obvious good alternative that needs to be considered together with other possible locations. Therefore, I am pleased that the Center Party clearly says that we will place new export finance to the West. What I'm responding to is that the Right has spent more time harping with the Center Party's position than deciding to put this environment to the West. So we don't get multiple numbers for a location in the West. What we in the Center Party focus on, as well as our clear position on adding export finance to the West, is that the Groruddalen, if our proposal had been given multiple numbers, must of course have been given state jobs of the same size as Export Finance. The central periphery tanker is as durable in Oslo County as it is in Trondelag or Westland County. Important industries that help to finance our well-being with the value they provide are also fueling politicians who understand that the dynamics between industry and the financial environment have a lot to say about how successful this will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1538	This could have been a good thing for maritime industries, not least in the West. Here, the industry is actually asking for relocation. Their financial institutions ask for the same thing. They think that it had given a tighter cooperation, simpler decision-making lines and that one had managed to renew after a while. When a representative hears Strandskog argue that this is not good, I become even more skeptical. One can say that one doesn't have a financial environment to handle this place other than in Oslo, that these are going to affect the whole country, that it has to lie here. When you hear both the Right Party and the Workers' Party tell you what's not working, and what's to be done, a thought it would be pretty good to go for these suggestions. When a person talks about not being able to do this overnight, it is not what it says in proposal No. 6 or 7 from the Center Party. In fact, one has to wait for one to go through and finish, but one has to decide where to go. Ein begs ‘the government investigated and selected a model and location in the West for export finance Norway that best serves the export environments along the coast and in the country.’ It should be for everyone if one really thinks what one has said today about that change. And proposal No. 7: ‘The Government is asking the Government to await the merger of GIEK and Export Credit Norway to decide, on the basis of the corona crisis, a solution for the location of head office outside Oslo in line with the location of State jobs.’ Here it is responsibility, but at the same time a clear message. It's a shame the majority don't want to be on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1557	I am aware that it is a rhetorical tool to try to misplace what people are saying, but I do not think it serves this debate. We've seen some examples of that -- now last. That's not what Mr. Strandskog said. Then you should listen better. We have now experienced a few representatives from the Central Party going up to the pulpit and presenting their clear position. For us who have followed both the communication, to use Pollestad's expression, and the writing in the matter, it is not so obvious. I don't know what's been going on in the back room of the Center Party, I'm never going to know that, but that things have been going on, there's no doubt about it. For we who have followed this, have seen a party that was initially completely for emigration from Oslo, without any terms and conditions. Then, in Avisa Oslo a little later, they are opposed to moving out of Oslo because a former Labour Party representative, now the Center Party representative, had won the discussion – and then to move to Groruddalen. Then they have later been opposed to moving to Groruddalen, but to move out of Oslo with a Grorud compensation of 200 undefined, but certainly state jobs from some undefined source somewhere in Oslo, which is not Groruddalen. It's quite clear, clearly, shining clearly, clearly as ink. I dare a claim and a question. It would have been a good idea to indicate which 200 jobs this is about, and which 200 jobs the Central Party believes are not suitable for moving to another part of the country, i.e. not suitable for moving out of Oslo, but suitable for moving within Oslo. I'm excited about it, because it's supposed to be a process. I could call it what's described here, a process, but I'll almost dry to call it a mode operator that's obvious. We've seen quite a lot of times that this party has given completely different versions of its own policies in different media and different places. What's worth noting with this particular one is that everything that's referred to comes from the same source – and that's to the extent that a process does. Let me stress: we have some expectations for export finance in Norway, and I have to admit that right there I agree with the case rapporteur, who is now coming after me with his unlimited speaking time. I almost thought the Council of State was talking about ex.phil when she talked about Eksfin – she gets forgiveness. I have three expectations: it will be better for the export industry – a better offer through a more forward-looking company, such as the United Kingdom. learners of their German counterpart, who actively seek out the projects and who actually won a project with a Norwegian company to operate ferries in the Mediterranean. I expect a company with a more diversified portfolio, and I expect a company that is present to a greater extent and more locations in Norway, as the majority position in this case suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1570	I have no ambition to clear up the confusion that was revealed in the previous article, but I want to point out what this matter is really about. Then, I think, a possibility, for many today have been concerned that one should work out, many have been concerned that one should choose the location according to what is best for the export industries. Finally, in the debate, I would like to quote proposal No. 6:@item: intable Text context ‘The government is asked to select a model and location in the West for export finance Norway, which best serves the export environments along the coast and in the country.’ That's what this is all about – is one for or against that position. There the Centre Party has made a clear choice, but we also want to spread jobs in Oslo, and we have done so in other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1580	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Case No. 5 and 6 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1611	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1618	It is a unanimous committee which asks the Stortinge to adopt the position of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries on the amendment of the EEA Trade Law on the mutual recognition of goods. Furthermore, the Economic and Social Committee urges the Stortinget to agree to the approval of the Decision of the EEA Joint Committee No. 105/2020 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Regulation (EC) No 105/2020 of the European Parliament and of the Council 764/2008. [[EF]] The principle of mutual recognition of goods implies that the principle applies in areas where there are no harmonised EEA requirements for goods. This means that, as a general rule, a product which has been lawfully put into circulation in one EEA State may be placed on the market in another EEA State, even if it does not meet all the technical requirements relating to its design, size, weight, composition, labelling, wrapping, etc. The overall objective of the new Regulation is to strengthen the impact of the internal market by improving the application of the principle of mutual recognition and removing unjustified barriers to trade by facilitating market participants' access to the movement of goods which are not regulated by common European legislation. It appears from the proposal that the aim of the proposals is to make it easier for businesses to sell their goods in other EEA countries while at the same time enabling consumers to have confidence that the products in the market are safe. The regulatory framework of the product package is mainly a further development of the existing legislation and systems that we have today. Norway has an open economy, and we rely on international trade to ensure high employment and value creation. Trade means that we can export where we have a comparative advantage to produce and import what we need. Free movement of goods is an important driver of increased competitiveness and economic growth. The rules contained in the product package help to facilitate increased trade and are therefore positive for Norway. The EU is Norway’s main trading partner. The purpose of that Regulation is to ensure that the free movement of goods within the EEA is not impeded to a greater extent than is necessary. It is important for Norwegian industry that all EEA countries comply with the rules on cross-border trade in goods in the EEA. For small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, it will be important to avoid unnecessary, burdensome costs of additional testing, conversion and labelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1633	The principle of mutual recognition of goods contributes to making it easier for traders to place their goods on the market in all EEA countries. While the principle is already enshrined in the EEA Trade Law, the European Commission’s investigations from 2014 to 2016 showed that traders rather than using the principle, they adapt their goods to national legislation. The new legislation is a further development of the existing legislation, which establishes clearer and simpler procedures using the principle both for operators and for national supervisory authorities. This will help to strengthen the application of the principle of mutual recognition of goods. Improved application also strengthens the effects of the internal market by removing unjustified barriers to trade. It could in turn contribute to increased trade and competition within the EEA. The new legislation will make it easier for Norwegian traders to place their goods on the market in other EEA countries. The legislation is a further development of existing legislation and has no impact on the scope of action of the Norwegian authorities when they consider limiting the freedom of movement of a product, compared with the current situation. The national implementation of the Regulation will require amendments to the EEA Trade Law, which are fully justified in the proposal, and I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposed legislation. The EU is our most important market, and it is important that we work to strengthen the internal market and remove barriers to trade between countries. The free movement of goods in the internal market is an important tool for ensuring trade between countries, and by removing unnecessary trade barriers between countries, we provide for increased market access for goods while at the same time providing a level playing field, which will benefit both consumers and traders in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1646	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1651	It is an important principle that we have high health, environmental and safety requirements for the products we have in Norway. My question then is this: with that legislation and regulation, could one then risk reducing the scope for action in order to set health, environmental and safety requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1656	It is an exception to the principle of requirements for goods which are justified by overriding reasons of general interest relating to health, the environment and safety. It is provided for in Articles 11 and 13 of the EEA Agreement. The scope of action of the Norwegian authorities to impose this type of requirement is not modified as a result of the new Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1661	In connection with public procurement, it is often pointed out that solutions should be chosen as a focus on health, a focus on environmental sustainability, and a focus on product safety. Can a person come into situations where Norwegian municipalities, agencies or other public purchasers have made demands, and then suppliers from other EU countries come to the door with this regulation and say that it is not actually permissible to make demands? Does this change to the current legal state?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1666	The idea behind this change is that a product authorised in one country can be sold in other countries with the same packaging, i.e. the same product, without having to adapt to national legislation. It's an exception, which I referred to both in my post and in the previous question, for these compelling general health, environmental and safety considerations, that do not change our room of action with this. The purpose of this change is to make the principle more accessible both to Norwegian traders exporting their products to the EEA market and to non-resident traders exporting to Norway. I cannot rule out situations where this may occur, but which are not about health, the environment and safety, which the legislation currently takes care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1675	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1694	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1701	This is a long-term project for very many locally and too many people running on the E18. I myself have been involved in discussing this project for almost 30 years, because it goes through my home municipality, so it's amazing that it's coming now, and that you're finally going to get this project in place. I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. There has been a good round in the committee, and I expect that the different parties will explain their views. This is a good project, with 7 billion and more than 400 million in government money. Then it's 3.9 billion. kr through tolls, which are not as joyful, at least not for those of us who believe that building the road and getting the infrastructure in place is a state responsibility and not a tolling responsibility for the drivers, who already pay a lot in taxes and charges to get the road built. There have been 129 accidents on the route. Three people have lost their lives since 2009, one has been seriously injured, two seriously injured, and 123 people have been more easily injured in this way. That's why it's important to get a new path, with four fields. But part of this distance is an example of how we built the road some years ago, building a two-field road instead of building a real four-field road with middle parts. It's very bad, because then you might not have had to do what we now have to do: build a new road. Unfortunately, my home state and East-Agder are examples of how you built things in the past, and where you now have to rebuild things again because you didn't really do it that time. That is why I am a little surprised by the SV's proposal, that SV does not want to build a proper road on the entire route right away. I think that's going to be worse for both the environment and those who're going to drive on the road. That's why I'm glad that there's a majority that says that we're going to build a real path on the whole route, which is about. 54 km. It's a good project, over 11 billion. kr. I also want to say this from the pulpit: it is important to have good dialogue with local authorities and New Roads as a company, which is going to expand here, and I feel that it has been very good dialogue, it has been very good rounds, but that perhaps it has stopped a little bit more around the good mood. That is why I think it is important to send a signal from the Stortinget, as a majority of the committee also says, that local involvement is important, and that local authorities feel that they are in a good way. Constructive and good dialogue is important. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, where we propose State full funding of the project, i.e. 100 pst. With that, I look forward to the debate. I have tried to explain, as the rapporteur of the case, but I expect most of the parties to explain well their views where they have a different view of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1724	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1729	This project is lagging behind and includes the development of approx. 54 km road between Tvedestrand and Dørdal. It is stated in the case files that 129 accidents have been recorded throughout the journey. The objective of the current national transport plan is a continuous non-conversational four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h throughout the Oslo-Kristiansand route. The range of E18 is part of major intermunicipal planning cooperation. We in the Workers' Party will underline the importance of seeing the entire area of the plan in the context and making further progress also for the E18 Grimstad-Arendal section. The project demonstrates good experience in intermunicipal planning cooperation, and we believe that this needs to be assessed against the experience of using government plans in other projects. The conclusion should have an impact on how planning is organised in other major road projects. The Labour Party will also point out that the counties are now above the limit of how much a county municipality can bear from guarantees on the roads of the state, and we expect the Swedish Government's decision on State guarantee liability to be applied to this project as well. The working party also assumes that if the economy of the project becomes significantly more favourable than that used in the financing analysis, the cost reduction shall benefit users, either by reduced rates or by reducing the amortisation time. We also believe that the debate on transport policy priorities is undermined by a right-wing argument that bears the mark of political propaganda and ideological wishful thinking. There are probably no parties – including the Workers' Party – that do not share the objective of cost-effective road development. However, we are concerned that if it is a one-sided measure of cost-effectiveness, it can lead to road projects being built with foreign, cheap labour, and this will lead to pressure on Norwegian wage and employment, which we will strongly warn against. It is the Board of Directors of New Roads that prioritises and decides to launch important road projects. The Labour Party considers this to be a matter of concern and it should certainly be discussed. We believe that we need to have transparency and debate on how to build the country, both to strengthen the Norwegian construction industry and to provide predictability and a level playing field. We need to look forward to socio-economic profitability calculations and strengthen the valuation of nature and food land. It has also been very much discussed in this matter that we are now dealing with. Now the national transport plan has been presented, and then we have an opportunity. It will also give us knowledge of how to build society and how we want it to be built in Norway. Then the Progress Party was in on this with tolls, and they are promoting their own proposal, that the expansion should take place without tolls. That is, with all of the projects we've already realized, we're talking about between 100 and 200 billion. kr in transport projects, or toll financing. What the Workers' Party can agree with is that in connection with our request for an investigation into road pricing, we also have expectations that it will also come to the existing projects. There are discussions around the country about the cooperation between New Roads and municipalities. We in the Workers' Party have expectations that this cooperation will be as good as it can be, and we have the impression that this with a planned collaboration will make this good. So overall, this is a good project, which we fully support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1748	Today we are dealing with a very important transport project. Tvedestrand-Dørdal is part of a holistic expansion of E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand and Stavanger. The distance is 54 km long and is planned as a four-field road with a speed limit of 110 km/h. The project is estimated at 11.35 bn. kr, where the State contribution is SEK 7,44 billion. kr, and SEK 3,91 billion Tolls are tolls. Vestfold and Telemark County Municipality and Agder County Municipality have decided to provide a guarantee for the borrowing of the toll company. The project shall be developed according to the plan with the first sub-opening in 2025, and the entire section shall be completed in 2028. The development shall take place under the direction of New Vegar AS, which has also had previous projects on E18 in its portfolio. This is a continuation of the development of new road safety between the already developed four-field sections between Oslo and Kristiansand and the last completed projects on E18, Ruggtvedt–Dørdal and the Arendal–Tvedestrand sections, both opened in 2019. This project will contribute to the regional development and strengthening of industrial development and will contribute to the expansion of the construction and labour market regions. For example, one could expand the labour market of the region northwards towards central clusters in the Grenland area. One will achieve shorter travel time, which is important for both food and passenger transport. E18 is also an important part of the international connection through the ferry ports along the routes. The Tvedestrand-Dørdal line is a highly trafficked road with annual traffic of between 8000 and 10000. That's numbers from 2018. During the period 2009–2019, 129 accidents have been recorded on the route, with a total of three fatalities, a very serious injury, two serious injuries and 123 minor injuries. With this extension project, a few roads will be road-safe, one will improve the development and ensure that a building road will meet future needs. New Vegar's working method involves early involvement of municipalities in the planning process, and in this process the municipalities of Bamble, Kragerø, Gjerstad, Riser, Veggershei and Tvedesstrand have made up the intercommunal planning cooperation. Careful involvement and local anchoring are important in all municipalities and close dialogue with New Vegar AS, which is responsible for the development. So we know that there have been many recordings in the planning process, and that one sees that the regulatory work will be clear towards the summer of 2021. It is really only to wish you the best of luck with the work planned and with the rapid and good implementation of this important project under the auspices of New Vegar AS, which will lead to a safe and efficient road, and help to bind the working regions closer together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1763	Here you will hear another post. There's a lot of people going on autopilot in this room. How many of the representatives who have spoken today have gone behind the case and asked some fundamental questions? I wonder. This case has many sides, and each of them is alarming. First: I have never seen a case that is so bad both in terms of ignoring the unpriced consequences and in terms of the process – or lack of process. Well, in that case, it would have to be a competitor in the Rogfast process, maybe. Firstly, it seems that there is too much money needed for transport by the state, that there is no other need to cover neither railway, district roads, racial protection, the aftermath of maintenance, yellow mid-strip or anything else when it comes to prioritizing such things. So this is going to be over 11 billion. kr on a motorway where large parts are built in virgin terrain parallel to a rather new two- and three-field road. Is that possible? Yeah, that's possible. Everything is possible for this government and the highway-free majority in the hall here. But then there is a need for this way, then – it must be? No, that's what it's not, not for a four-field. Of course, both ends have to be repaired, there are obvious bottlenecks, but it could have happened by upgrading the existing road and accepting 90 km/h, two- and three-field middle-drawing solutions. It is safer than a narrow four-field road, and it is able to cope with the fires in mass, up to 15 000 in annual traffic, ODT. Here it's pretty much under 10,000 A.D. Then the government might have saved around 8 billion. kr. - Cut, cut, I guess this is a little bit of money. Ask whether Inner Agder might have needed some of this money to upgrade the road network there, not to talk about Rv. 13 Fjordvegen – talk to those who live in Kinsarvik. I think large parts of the country's municipalities had been very satisfied with 90 km/h, I'm going to be honest. So to the second important point, and that's the process. Very much of a hard and persistent planning process is due to the objectives of the genius-clad New Wegener in Mandal. It must be built extensively, it must be built quickly and it must be built as cheaply as possible. Is there anyone in this room who doesn't realize that it's at the expense of anything? Of course, it is at the expense of environmental considerations and local democracy. Much of the ordinary planning process is added. So what do you do to get a quick process? Yes, the rapporteurs of the municipalities concerned, in this case six in number, are being gathered as a sort of party and democratic consortium in meeting with the New Roads. Then there is a discussion of the municipal plan, routes and seafaring everything within the four-field road concept – that's what we're talking about, always the four-field road. It's served in a dish. So at best the local government gets to take a look at this finished concept afterwards, but then the room for action is tied up, because here it has to cut the economy considerably. It's been cut, because it's not enough socio-economic benefit if it gets too expensive. What the six rapporteurs did not understand, or would not understand, was that this resulted in a proposition being made to the Stortinget today where all the tunnels were gone, they were simply removed when the proposition came here. What does that mean? This means that unintelligible natural values are being destroyed, like Hallandsheia, an area that is popular both for animal life and for walkers. New roads have drawn this trajectory, which thus remains high in the terrain – the cheapest, the cheapest, but the most desperate. The municipalities of Vegårdshei and Tvedestrand will have a tunnel here, but with a pen stroke or two tunnels removed in the prototype. Is that possible? It's been done. We have slept for an hour, says Vegårdshei's rapporteur, Kjetil Torp, from the Christian People's Party – there is no doubt about that," he says to the Tvedestrand Post. What should have been done was to present the proposal for funding when the regulatory plan was in place, not at a local authority level. Then so much is clarified. At the same time, by setting the cost framework so low as to make the project saleable to Stortinget, the planning of regulation in the municipalities becomes almost illusory. I think this is at the limit of the administrative legality. What about the investigation instructions? That's my question. Then I'll take up the suggestions that SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1784	Then the representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1789	In Stortinget today, a proposal to finance and build E18 on the Tvedestrand-Dørdal route in the municipalities of Bamble, Kragerø, Gjerstad, Vegårdshei, Risør and Tvedestrand is being debated. This section affects a total of six municipalities and has been active in the process. Indeed, the good experience gained with inter-municipal planning cooperation in this project should be assessed against the experience gained in using government plans in other projects. This project provides a county guarantee, but the Central Party will refer to previous request decisions in the Stortinget which state will assume the guarantee liability for national toll loans. The central party expects shared guarantee liability decisions to be made in force for this project also for the county municipalities of Agder and Vestfold and Telemark. The toll debt has accelerated violently with transport ministers from the Progress Party and this government. It is now necessary to enforce the adopted law that county councils should not be liable for the roads of the country. This project is part of an overall development of E18 from Oslo to Kristiansand and Stavanger and has an expense of 11.35 billion. NOK 7,44 billion. kr is state funds through New Wegener, and SEK 3,91 billion. kr shall pass through tolls. The centre party would like to stress that if the economy of the project is better than that on which the funding is based, the cost reduction is assumed to benefit the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1802	The previous speaker said that it was part of a whole project, i.e. Oslo–Kristiansand and on to Stavanger. It's an extension The Stortinget has been enthusiastic about, and in the case of the 54 kilometers through the municipalities that are affected here, there has been great enthusiasm at local level. They would like to have this road, because they see that there will be a good regime for transit traffic, given that there is a lot of heavy transport and commercial traffic that is frequented here, and in addition there will be a good regime for the local population, which will expand its living and working environment. Then it is also important for the Storting to listen locally when planning and actually deciding which areas to use. Several have indicated that there have been some sparkles. That's what we've heard, that there have been frictions between Nye Veier, some municipalities and the intercommunal plan collaboration, when the last and seventh decision was to decide both the trajectory and, not least, the execution of the project. It's probably not something that the Storting is doing so much. This is a municipal task, and it should be. It's the municipalities that have to regulate their area, it's the ones that have the most competence and commitment around where the road should be. But it is quite clear, and I would also like to say it from this pulpit, that New Veiger must maintain – and in this case perhaps establish – a good dialogue with the municipalities, so that no dispute can force state regulation. It's very unfortunate for such things. For the left, it's the commercial traffic that's the most important thing, that we build this road with such high standards. We know that that's what brings the most socio-economic benefit. Of course, it has to do with heavy traffic, which is to transport a lot of goods between these cities and densely populated areas both in the East and in the South and beyond to Rogaland, but it is also in view of the other commercial traffic, the electrician and the plumber who then gets a completely different area to serve by being able to transport themselves with their tools to the different cities in the neighbouring area. Here you have to be aware of the benefits of this route for this area. I hear that the Progress Party has now intended to vote against this project because of tolls. It amazes me when the Advancement Party may be the father of New Roads and was very eager. It was decided from the first day that there had to be some toll financing in this, otherwise there would have been no New Roads. I am surprised that the Progress Party is leaving the good attitude it has had towards these projects, that the benefits are so great that one can also tolerate a third of toll financing. It surprises me that when you don't sit in government, you suddenly change in relation to the concept that was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1816	I want to thank the Committee for a good job, and I am very pleased with the broad plurality that stands behind this proposition, with the Labour Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left, and with the Progress Party, which also supports this measure. When I heard the last representative here, Gunnes, and also when I heard the case spokesman, the representative, Hoksrud, talking about the project, it was like a 17th May performance, a 17th May speech, but I also noticed that they would not be involved in the project. It sounds very nice with state full funding, but toll financing is absolutely crucial for us to get to the finish line. If we refuse to pay toll funding here, we are actually saying no to other potters, good projects in other parts of the country, and as the representative Gunnes said, this is the model of New Vegar. I have experienced that the Progress Party has proudly raised New Roads, and they have had reason for that, for it has been a success, and I hope that they still stand behind that fatherhood. And then there's several things that have come up, even though it's a broad number, and I want to comment on some of the things that come out of the configuration from the committee. One of the things that is recorded is New Vegar's portfolio and the use of entrepreneurs. That's like 80 pst. of the contract value entered into by New Vegar is with Norwegian total contractors. That means that 83 pst. the contract value is left in Norway by the portfolio of New Vegar, and there is a large proportion. If we really want to have a market with foreign entrepreneurs as well, it must be a certain aspect of it, and it shows that we are actually very happy. So we have an entry of foreign entrepreneurs, but the Norwegians are doing well, and they are definitely taking their share of responsibility. The Labour Party and the Centre Party address this with guarantee liability, the State guarantee liability. Yes, we are working on following up the call decision on shared guarantee liability, and it comes back to us in the state budget for 2022, but so far the legislation is the same. That means that in this proposition, but also in other propositions on national roads, there will be county guarantee liability, of course, until the Storting has made a decision to change it. But let there be no doubt: we're working too hard to follow it up, and it's especially important for Rogaland County because they're so close to the border. I found it interesting to see right-wing representatives from both the Labour Party and the Centre Party pointing to the level work done in this matter. I want to agree with an assessment, and it's not always that a government plan is the good solution. That's why it should also be for inspiration, some of the plan work done here. The most serious criticism comes from SV. Yes, I think we just have to be a few about it, that with New Vegar we have chosen a solution with a greater political distance to the expansion that is there. But it has been a great success. It has provided lower costs and greater benefits, and we experience a completely different development in the road sector cost-effectively than what we have done, among other things. by rail. When it comes to this distance, New Roads has managed to reduce the cost by 28 pst. compared to what was expected when this part entered their portfolio. I think we also have to look at the health here. We see that the time from Oslo to Kristiansand has been reduced by one and a half hours in the last ten years, and that's because we have built a four-field road, which has produced very good results. I'm happy for the many people who also point to the positive effects associated with road safety, and we need to see this distance in a single unit. And then I want to stress that New Roads, when they start expanding, are busy starting with those parts of this distance that are most exposed when it comes to security, and that have the potential for improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1840	The Council of State was concerned with this with a State guarantee and the decision taken by Stortinget. He pointed out that the Storting had to take a decision first in order for this project to be put into effect as well. So my first question is really pretty simple: when can we expect the state to take part of the guarantee for its own roads, as the Storting has decided?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1845	Let there be no doubt, we are working to follow up the call decision that was made in the fall of this room. But it also builds up to some other problem settings. We're going to provide a cure, a solution to this, and the plan for that is the state budget for 2022. Then it's natural that a decision is taken with the consequences it also has, because it's going to create some other problem options. Until one has done so, we have the legislation we have today. These guarantees are part of a market, so we're forced to make final decisions here. But we are working too hard to follow up the appeal decisions, and we see for ourselves a shared responsibility where the state takes its share of responsibility for the national roads. We also know that it's important and that it's urgent. In particular, Rogaland County, but other states will come up with this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1852	I thank the Council of State for the answer and that we can expect that by 2022 we will have a case for Stortinget again. Another issue raised by the Committee on a committee trip in Agder is tolling costs. For example, from Stavanger to Oslo, when all the roads are finished, it's more reasonable to take flights than to drive a car from Stavanger to Oslo. We're cutting down on road sections, and there's a lot of discussion about the fair location of toll stations. The Labour Party has made proposals, and it also has a Christian People's Party, on the investigation of road pricing. My question is: how are things going with the investigation of road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1859	There is no doubt that - call it - the next generation toll system will be a road pricing system. But it's a pretty complex and huge work, and I think that there's a consensus between the four parties that we're not going to put anything around this before the option. It's a lot of work. But it is natural to look at this, and it also points to national transport levels, that there are many possibilities here. I also believe that it could provide an even fairer and better distribution than today's toll system is in reality. Oslo–Kristiansand has got a lot of new way, and it has been very positive. It is clear that there will also be some costs related to tolls, but it is not unnatural that those who get a new road, who get the benefit of it, are also involved in paying and taking part when we know that the state takes such a large share.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1866	There is no doubt that the Progress Party is for the project, but we are very sceptical about funding. I want to ask, because one of the government representatives was in the pulpit and boasted that this would be so good and regional magnifying: does the council think that paying 30,000-35,000 kroner a year in tolls just to drive if you live in Tvedestrand and work in Bamble, or living in Bamble and working in Tvedestrand, is quite okay? And doesn't he think it helps to reduce the effect of actually building a new road?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1871	There is no doubt that toll costs can be a challenge, but there is a cost that one has a very short period, often 10–15 years, and then the road that is built is free of charge. For example, if we take the road that was built in time between Grimstad and Kristiansand, which had an even greater toll financing, there was no doubt that people understood very clearly why they paid: here came a nice, fairly narrow, quadruple road between Grimstad and Kristiansand, and people understood it to replace a road that was far worse – it went faster, it was safer, it was better to run. I didn't think it was unnatural for them to take part of this cost. And remember, for every penny a payer in tolls here, the government has given more than two dollars. So the state takes the far most part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1878	I hear the Council of State says it's okay that people are involved and contribute. But NOK 91 every way after a discount means that if you don't have a piece, you spend well over NOK 100 each way every day you drive on this road. Does the Council of State think that $91 to get to and from work, and when you know that a large part of the salary actually goes back to the state through other taxes, etc., is a perfectly acceptable thing to get the new way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1883	I thought the representative of Hoksrud here reflects well, because the alternative is, as he says, that one gets an increased tax cost. This road has to be paid, and it can happen by the state taking its part, but that's our everybody's money. Then the options are even higher taxes or that you pay some tolls, because those who use the roads are also involved in paying. But there is an exciting system called road pricing, which can be even fairer and even better. I see now on Hoksrud's facial expression that he's probably a little uncertain about whether that's the model he wants to go for. But that's how it costs to bet on infrastructure, and in some place we have to take the bill. That's why there's not only one solution to this. I just think that the state takes the majority, but also that those who use the road pay their share, is a good solution to the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1892	There are huge costs of building roads, and on many routes there are drivers who pay a lot through tolls. There are tolls for which the county councils are responsible for the guarantee, despite this request decision that I know the Council of State. It was promoted to bring down the financial costs and get neat facts in the case, saying: «The government is asking the Government to bring proceedings against the Stortinget, where the State assumes responsibility for the guarantee of national toll loans, both on current and future projects.» What does the state council believe after state think about how to take on new toll guarantees when there is a large majority who have requested the county councils to release it, and does not seem to the state council to wait a long time for this to happen by 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1903	The representative Mossleth says it very well here, and the appeal decision is about us bringing up a case for the Storting. That's what we're going to do, but what we're going to do on guarantees is pretty complex work. It is also a market that actually works today. So it's important that we do this properly. What Stortinget suggests in his appeal decision will also create some problem settings that I believe it is important for Stortinget to know well when making a decision. But we're working too hard on this. There may be a good solution, for example with a shared guarantee liability between the State and the county councils. Some county councils have problems today taking on new guarantee liability. Rogaland is the highest state, but it is also because there have been so many positive, good projects that Rogaland has received. But I want to be clear that we are planning to file a case on this in the budget of the cottage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1910	If nothing else, at least the lines of Norwegian transport policy are clearly identified. I would like to refer to what the State Manager's Environment Director in Agder said at a working meeting on 18 March, i.e. just now: ‘In practice, the Law on Planning and Building is disregarded. Local democracy is led behind the light of what bears the mark of having been a skin process. We ask whether this is a desirable and acceptable national practice for such planning processes.’ This is what the environmental director said, and this is from a newspaper report. ‘We should look into whether the requirements of the Administrative Act for investigations have been met for this part of the toll proposal’, said environmental director Løvdal. Does the Council of State think that the administrative law's requirements for investigations have been followed in this case, or does he have some sort of bad taste in his mouth?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1925	It is never the case that the law on planning and building should be set aside, but as I see this case, one has followed the procedures that are correct. So it may be that someone feels that they have heard the case say well, and others do not, but there is no doubt that the municipalities have been involved in the solution that one goes for here. So I also think we're going to be honest and say that with the way we've organized this, with New Roads, we've chosen to make some decisions, with a greater distance to what time this kind of thing is going to come, time, and then we've chosen to do it. But the results of New Vegar have been very good, and that is among other things. because we have had good cost reductions. It is important that on the road side we have experienced something different and had a more positive development than we have unfortunately done on the railway. It is a real challenge with the large cost excesses that this sector has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1932	The cord shift is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1939	To sum up a little bit of what has been said so far in this Chamber, I have to say that all the other parties in many ways now in transport policy turn their backs on two UN panels. I've said it sometimes here from the pulpit. The nature panel is not taken into account, not the climate panel. There are no critical questions at all about new motorways. Is that how we're going to do it? We're talking about a motorway that's going to operate below and up to 10,000 ÅDT, as we say. So says the state's own investigations that a two- and three-field road can handle the fires in mass up to 15 000. Several other countries take it up to 16 to 17 000 YEARS, but we continue as before – just as before. Then we have a planning process entirely on the frontier, in my opinion, of the legitimate in view of the investigation instructions. So that's what we're doing. The whole majority here accept this, and you don't go back in a single thing like this, because it's just a joke, and you're used to voting on autopilot for these billions. Then I can take out some games. Why in the world does the Senter party vote for this? Now there are no representatives left in the room. But if they want the district roads well, why do they vote for billions of people who don't need them? I don't understand. Then to the representative of the Left. What's left of the green in the left when they can vote for such a road project? I must really wonder about that. The representative Jon Gunnes is standing here defending this with all his heart and talking about an electrician with tools in the backseat that's going to work. I think it lasts 90 kilometers per hour. It's very well served by this electrician. We're talking here about a saving of – how much is it – one and a half minutes, two minutes. I have to say like Nordahl Grieg, 'You must still be the world.' So we haven't come any further than this. We no longer ask questions. We're going on an autopilot in this room for such road development. This can't go any further. We have to go behind. Is there something I'm going to be remembered for here in the hall, is that I've been trying to raise these questions. I'm going to promise the President – if it has any significance for the President – that this will be one of the themes I'm going to bring into a new government. I promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1952	To my dear colleague Nävra I would say: No – absolutely no. I see no reason to ask critical questions by saying that Norwegian politicians and Norwegian magnification now – finally – take the responsibility they should have taken already when the Workers' Party presented its motorway plan at the beginning of the 1960s, before I was born. Then, in fact, the Workers' Party had visions and visions of building the country, as all other European countries did after World War II, as Eisenhower did in the United States in the 1950s, and so Eastern Europe did as soon as they got rid of the cold war and the wall that blocked them from the rest of the world. I note that SV still wants Norway to be a different country, that they still want people to stand in steady, slow queues, and that it should be so uncomfortable to drive a car that people are forced into collective solutions, so that everyone should sit on the same bus or on the same train. There is SV's transport policy in a nutshell, and it is quite fascinating to see how strongly they believe in these collective solutions. I almost have to say that's a little impressive. With regard to the second debate that has been going on here today, there has been a fine toll debate. I must say, it's been a little fascinating. But I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the Minister of Transport. I wonder if he might be very happy to drive a taxi, to replace a system that is absolutely not working, and as the minister himself says may not be very fair – namely tolls – with a system that is even worse, namely road pricing, is completely wrong solution and completely wrong way to go. Tolls are highway robbery, as we in the Progress Party have said all these years, and it doesn't hold to say, as the minister said before, that this is something you pay for a short period of time. 10–15 years may sound short, but talk to e.g. those I visited in Narvik a few weeks ago, at Hålogalandsbrua, who pay up to NOK 5000 a month. But if you take 4,000 a month, it's almost $50,000 a year, and if you take it over ten or fifteen years, we're talking about 500,000 kroner or 750,000 dollars. So even though 10 or 15 years might sound small, half a million or 750,000 kroner is crazy money to pay just to get over a bridge. But we in the Progress Party are deeply concerned if the poor solution tolls are to be replaced by the even worse solution to road pricing. Just to put things in perspective: the one where the hole in the North Sea, popularly called Langskip, that the bulk of the population wants to build, costs 25 billion. kr. Electrification of the base, which is completely meaningless, costs 50 billion. kr. To cash in all the tolls that are in the whole country, of which all the drivers, all the inhabitants, all the commuters and all the families of children would have benefited greatly, costs less than the two symbol projects on climate and environmental policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1963	First to the representative Nävra, who said it was on autopilot. No, it's not about autopilot, but it's about us being concerned about building this country. We need to ensure that there is good infrastructure across the country and that there is a good and effective way to get between regions and parts of the country. That's what this is about. It doesn't last 90 km an hour. It should be 110, it could be 120, too. To the representative of Gunnes, I would like to say that he has to read what the proposal says. So the Progress Party does not agree that we should build this project, but we are voting against the funding proposed by the government and supported by the majority in the Grand Duchy. The Progress Party believes that this is a state responsibility. When we had a discussion about this instead, in the line change, the council said it was about the money we have available in total. Yes, it does, but in this room there are many who seem to electrify to 50 billion. kr is a very good project. I think it's much better to use some of the 50 billion. to build infrastructure and road instead, rather than electrifying something that is really just symbolic policy. Then, when the Center Party talks about tolls, I have been going through and checking, and since 2010, I can't find a single project that the Center Party has voted against. The Progress Party has voted against more than 30 road projects financed by tolls. But when the Progress Party was part of the government, we made sure to have a toll settlement that says something about reducing tolls by 1.4 billion. kr. It was 2 billion. kr in year. We have voted to remove – sorry, President, I was going to say something that is not quite nice – the project that is so bad, toll-financed, but that was promoted by the red-green government just before it went off. This concerns the road between Seljord and Åmot, which was an id... – I say no more – project, which should never have been promoted as a toll project. Nearly more money went to collect money and pay down loans than it actually cost to build and do something with the road. It's nonsense. So the centre party should start voting for road projects with real standards, and vote against tolls. But they don't, despite running around and telling the whole of Norway they're against. But they're in this room and they're in favour. The Progress Party is now voting against, because we think there are other ways of financing road construction, if you want. So to SV: It's a little great to listen to the representative Nävra, who says he's so opposed to the four-field roads. He's concerned about the environment and the natural diversity. Then Nevra has to take a trip down to Telemark. He should stand and look at Breviksbrua, Grenlandsbrua and the new bridge that comes next to. When they built that road in the 1990s – Grenlandsbrua finished in 1996 – they said: Now we have built the road for the future. No, they hadn't built the way for the future. That's exactly the stupidity SV is about to do now again – or they want to do it. Luckily, the Stortinget does not – you now build a real road once, when you have built parts of that road wrong once before, which was stupid. We want to build properly right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1976	The climate Left cares a lot about, and we actually have a lot of faith that there will be a zero-emission vehicle on this road in a few years. We can say that here without any airlock. We have just presented a climate statement that clearly states that we have a target of halving emissions on the transport side by 2030, and by 2050 there will be zero emissions on this type of traffic. As far as nature protection is concerned, it is clear that the best prerequisites for assessing the local nature protection interests are the local government around. It is they who regulate these areas. At the same time, we have a government around this, which certainly says from if it's not within, and if the local government says something that is contrary to state guidelines, the State Administration's environmental department comes and deals with this matter, so that you have to make other plans. I hear the discussion about this route – along these 54 kilometers there are some sections where New Vejer and the municipality have conflicting interests. Then it is not that there are New Roads that should always be determined. Then, too, municipal interests must be clearly balanced against this, and there must be democratic processes in order to achieve it, so that it becomes a minimum of natural value.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1985	The representative Arne Nävra has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1990	The representative from the Left is talking about the municipalities that have the best handle on the natural values in the area, and if they don't, of course the State Manager has it, it's said. I have referred the blast to the state administrator at the joint meeting that was here by day. It was a huge blast, it was turned into the table on the leveling process that had happened. Doesn't it make any impression on the Left at all, or on the other representatives here in the Chamber? So we are now adopting something that is being trodden down the rapporteurs' heads. They did not know that these tunnels were removed even when they sat and discussed this, and then there is a proposition where several tunnels have been taken out, changing the frames altogether. Because they've lowered the price so much, the costs have gone down so much, they just had to take out tunnels -- a little trifle -- and that means they get huge cuts, which ruin nature, tractive roads, and which probably give much greater greenhouse gas emissions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e1997	I just want to ask the representative Hoksrud to provide an overview showing how many toll crowns were adopted at the time the Progress Party had the Minister for Transport. I have heard that it is a new record, and it would have been nice if the representative Hoksrud could confirm that record.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2003	The representative Arne Nävra takes up something that's quite important. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have some general principles for how we manage the road construction. That is why we have also said that we want an evaluation of Nye Veger – who is responsible for what? Nature and climate must have intrinsic value. The municipalities have been asked to value their own nature, and it is quite essential that this is linked. But the Workers' Party believes this is something we should define in the climate plan and in the national transport plan, i.e. who is responsible for what. In Trøndelag, the State Manager has said no – it goes on zero-emission targets for Trondheim as a city in the urban growth agreement. So there's an incredible amount going on out there in terms of the role that New Wegener actually has. For the Workers' Party, this road construction is important, it's been waiting a long time, but we want to evaluate New Roads. How to have political governance on road construction in projects when one threatens that money will be moved if one does not accept it, because socio-economic profitability means more than both nature and trajectory choices? I was a little bit into this with tolls. The new Roads are now getting 5 billion today. 2017 krones, or 6 bn. 2020-krona. With the proposal from the Progress Party, it's interesting to hear whether to put a $4 billion in the government budget next year to finance tolls, or what other projects are going to go out. Will New Roads get even more? Now that we have been presented with a new national transport plan with a new portfolio to New Veger, we will have a calculation of this. Somewhere the money must be taken from.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2012	The party of progress almost doubled the appropriations for transportation when we came into government. We have greatly reduced the proportion, and we have actually voted against over 30 of the projects, while the Senter Party has voted in favour of all of them. So that means that the Center Party is a toll section, and we'll see that again today. The progress party is opposed to tolls, has worked in Stortinget to reduce the use of tolls, and we believe that this is possible. It's actually about wanting and wanting to give priority, and we've said that instead of spending money on symbol policy, we spend money building infrastructure – because it's for the benefit of the inhabitants of the country. Although I am the case rapporteur, I am not going to spend any more time, because now I have used the exact same time as, among other things. some SVs, who have spent their time. Then I have to stop there, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2021	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2026	The representative Hoksrud may not have heard what I was asking for. I did not ask how many toll proposals the Progress Party has voted against, I asked how many toll crowns have been adopted under a State Council of the Progress Party that has governed the movement of the Right Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2031	We really got a very wise and good comment from the representative of the Workers' Party Kirsti Leirtrø on New Roads and the financing of New Roads. It was actually a very important reminder. When we established New Roads, they got about. 53 miles of roads they were supposed to build, mainly four-field highways. Then we filled in with approx. 20 more miles, so they passed 70 miles. Now, in the opinion of the Advance Party, the government has done a very good job of filling up with even more projects. It's positive. Now New Weiger has a total of approx. 123 miles of roads for which they are responsible. But what is the challenge, and with which the Progress Party is not as satisfied, is that unfortunately no more money has come to New Roads, and that was the question from Kirsti Leirtrø. Yes, of course – in the NTP of the Progress Party, we will ensure that New Roads are adequately funded to develop the roads for which they have been responsible, and also to ensure that they can be expanded without tolls, of course. Then the representative from the Labour Party had another comment – that the money must be taken from somewhere. She wondered where we were going to take the money from. It is possible that I spoke a little quickly instead, but a symbolism policy on the climate side such as electrification of the socket is actually negative for the fast-moving mainland industry in Norway, because they do not get access to the current they need. As a result, electricity prices will rise, and this in turn leads to a weakening of competitiveness in the Norwegian industry. There's a lot of money to save – 50 billion. kr only to electrify the pedestal, which is a clean and circumstantial policy. Total baggage at the end of 2019 was 61.2 billion. kr. It puts things in perspective. If you bring the hole that you're going to dig into the North Sea, the so-called Longship, we have 25 billion. Add kr. An interesting fact-finding there is that the CO 2 capture that someone in this room is very concerned about, 25 billion. for CO 2 capture in the North Sea, shall not bind more CO 2 than the forest in the Romedal and Ståge public spaces. So one forest in a generality in Norway binds more CO 2 than it costs 25 billion. kr to realize in this hole in the North Sea. It puts things in perspective. There we have a great opportunity to finance the road network in Norway without tolls. It's actually not as hard as anyone here is trying to create an idea of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2054	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2071	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2078	I would first like to thank the Committee on Cooperation and the important input to the Committee's comments. The current national transport plan defines seven external transport corridors, both by land and by water and by air. I myself, as the county rapporteur in Akershus, had the pleasure of working on the theme in the Nordic setting. Common to these projects is that they have produced reports that emphasise how rail connections connecting the Norwegian and Swedish networks can trigger growth impulses not only for the major cities but also between regions. I dare say that cross-border transport has been high on the agenda at the regional level in all the Nordic countries. However, the experience from work is that it has stopped so far when it comes to national level and decision-makers there. The main obstacle to the development of cross-border rail links is competition for funds in a situation where there is a alarming need for investment in the national network. The matter we now have to deal with needs to be seen in the context of this. The project presented by the company Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 AB differs from previous initiatives in that it appears to be economically profitable. The basis for this is that a train connection providing a journey time of less than 3 hours is competitive compared to aeroplanes. 70 pst. of the 1,4 million journeys made annually by flights between Gardermoen and Arlanda, will be taken by train whose journey time is reduced to 3 hours. With longer travel time, the customer base will fall dramatically. The Committee notes that there is a strong consensus in the Committee that the Oslo-Stockholm project 2.55 is well worth following up. There's some disagreement about whether the concept selection investigation is the right tool. KVUs are both complex and obligatory. The majority assume that potential studies, as suggested by the Council of State in its letter of 16 February 2021, are a more appropriate method at present. It will be able to identify both current trasé choices in Norway and the sustainability of funding. The proposers propose that the Storting should ask the Government to follow up the KVU of the Directorate of Railways for the Kongswingerbahn and initiate its upgrading for both freight and passenger traffic. In its letter of 16 February of this year, the Council of State indicates that measures have already been taken in line with the KVU. The power supply has been strengthened and new crossing tracks are planned on the route. The proposal for a new transport plan also provides for freight trains up to 740 metres in length, which will increase the competitiveness of rail transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2093	On Friday came the national transport plan. If I'm not wrong, this national transport plan was no. Six in a row. The first one came 20 years ago. Over the 20 years, the cross-border routes and the possibilities available have been said very nicely. But there has been very little development of the railway on the border sections, also with the NTP that came on Friday. It's too little bet. The representatives present in the Chamber are all representatives of parties who have been in government sometime in the last 20 years. There are always railway projects other than the railway projects on our border roads that reach. This is why the Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 project is so interesting, because it does not fight for money across the national transport plan in the usual struggle with the other railways and the other transport projects. In my opinion, this is a very interesting project, where one should use what might be called conventional trains in the technical language – it is not about lightning trains or high-speed trains. One uses the existing network in part, and one has to build some new railway, especially two connections, and then manages to get the travel time between the two major sites to less than three hours. It's very interesting, and especially when the idea is that a loan is being taken up, and that one is financing the down payment over the ticket. It challenges us, it's a little bit of a new way of thinking about it, I admit it, but I also think it's very interesting. We know that Oslo–Stockholm is actually one of the most trafficked flight routes across Europe. I think these are new rates from the current Minister of Transport. I think he's speaking positively. I think he is eager to find solutions here. It's been a change of pace. There's another song in the pipe now than what we heard from his two predecessors. I hope so. Now, the Minister of Transport, the Ministry of Transport, the Government and the Norwegian authorities must be actively involved in this work, positive, solution-oriented in dialogue with the Swedish authorities to find a solution. This is very interesting, and that's a good way to think about the railway. So we're probably a little bit disagreed here today just about how this is going to be investigated and planned further, but at least it's very important that we now take this one step further and get to work. Finally, I would like to address minority proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2106	The representative Sverre Myrli then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2111	SV is on, as we know, in good collective style. It's known as a quaint railway party, and Arne Nävra has contributed even more to it, and it's positive. I have to say that, I also have to brag a bit of SV today, because this is an exciting and interesting matter. The Progress Party is also committed to getting a good rail offer to the people, but we support both road and rail. It is a bit a shame that SV is unilaterally concerned with collective solutions and does not fully understand the importance of also taking care of the car and the drivers and making sure that we build up better road capacity and safe, secure quadruple motorways. As I said, this matter is exciting. I believe that all parties on the Stortinget view this as a fine opportunity and as a positive case. It is clear to us in the Progress Party that it is positive that private people want to build and take responsibility and operate the railways, really on their own initiative and responsibility. It's hard to be negative to that. So absolutely, this opens up exciting opportunities, to be able to drive to Stockholm from Oslo by train in three hours. There is no doubt that it will then take a significant part of the aviation market. But for us in the Progress Party, there are opportunities. It opens up exciting opportunities, and an opportunity study, as proposed by the Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the Advance Party, we believe is sufficient. One KVU is more committed, costs more money, and one pulls the other, so we are not open to support it today. It is also important to remember that with the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right Party in the Government, we have actually increased the budget by 80 pst. There has been a huge investment, on both road and rail, but still it looks as if there is too little money. Unfortunately, we see from the government that recently the railway tunnel under Oslo was cancelled, the tendering process was stopped. The government is talking down intercity, outer intercity. Intercity through the cities seems to be being stopped, outer intercity wears. It is exciting and good with a better train offer from Oslo to Stockholm, but it would have been an advantage to get the train to Moss first, before you start thinking out of the country and further on to Stockholm. I find the proposal for an opportunity study – now available and supported by the majority – exciting, and I look forward to obtaining the results of that study.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2124	The centre party is positive in expanding the rail system to improve rail services in Norway and better rail services to and from Norway. However, we believe that a KVU on this route is too early now and therefore support the Council of State's assessment that it is right to conduct an opportunity study based on the work done on the Swedish side and the initiatives taken in Norway. The feasibility study has to look at trajectory choices, passenger basis and costs. The centre party sees that the large cost excesses that have been on the railway in recent years require an opportunity study in advance of any KVU on this route. The central party believes that there is no time now to speed up a new development project between Oslo and Stockholm. The national audit has recently established in a report that there is insufficient control over the costs of large-scale development projects. The Ministry has insufficient information on whether the appropriations for operation, maintenance and investment are used efficiently and there is no system that adequately measures the productivity of the operation and maintenance of the railway. The rail reform of the government, with the creation of several companies and the ambiguity of responsibilities, has not led to a more efficient development, rather on the contrary. The Centre Party therefore considers it important to present the following proposals, which have already been addressed: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the responsibilities of the Directorate of Railways, Bane NOR and the Ministry of Transport’. The central party points to the importance of upgrading the Kongswingerban and the proposed allocation of funds for action on the Kongswingerban in the Central Party's alternative state budget. We underline the importance of money for crossing tracks on Galterud and Bodung. Therefore, the proposal that the government should follow up the KVU of the Railway Directorate on the Kongswingerbahn and start upgrading it for freight and passenger transport is very important. The Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 initiative is of course interesting, but I would warn everyone today that it will not lead to costs above the state budget, both by upgrading existing track and single sections and not least through the proposal for a State guarantee. There have been, as you know, very large overruns on the railways lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2140	Everyone understands the background to this proposal, namely that we can move most passengers across from planes to trains in this way. A representative proposal a few years ago from the red-green opposition on this subject was unfortunately voted down by the government parties. It was then referred to that a KVU would be created for the Kongswingerbahn, where cross-border traffic would be included. The government presented the KVU for the Kongsvingerbahn last November, but there was no investigation on Oslo–Stockholm, as promised. On the other hand, it is explicitly stated: «The Oslo–Stockholm Relation is recommended to be further investigated in its own investigation work.» That was when SV took the government in a way and promoted the demand for a separate KVU for this route. But the government doesn't want it now either, so if the situation is a completely different one now. The Council of State is, of course, halfway through an opportunity study. And then we'll see what that means. There are important environments on both sides of the border that are now working for this goal of developing a railway that will take three hours or less between Oslo and Stockholm. SV believes that the development of infrastructure as important as this is a public responsibility. If private development is considered to be profitable, it must be relatively profitable for the country as well. Several of the other parties are hesitant to agree to a proposal for a KVU that points forward towards an extension, because they are terrified of demanding money from other railway operations on the Norwegian side. That is understandable. We're struggling enough like we're doing with funding, among other things. through exceedances at intercity, etc. Of course, it has proved to be quite demanding to finance costly railway development with regular financing through the ordinary framework of the State budget. It is therefore high time that other forms of funding were explored in order to carry out important railway projects that benefit the environment and not least the coming generations. Therefore, SV has also submitted proposals to investigate other forms of State funding. For example, there are not so many other countries that can borrow money at a lower price than Norway. The Norwegian sovereign debt has been granted the best credit rating by international credit rating agencies. And that's just supposed to be missing. As of March 3, this year, we have a current external balance of 9 277 billion. NOK – i plus, i.e. It must be possible to imagine financing options for important infrastructure other than those directly provided by the State cash register. That's what SV wants to figure out. I fully agree with the representative Myrli that there are new signals from the current State Council in relation to the two previous ones in the case of crossings, i.e. cross-border sections. It's very nice and very nice to see. And then we'll see what this potential study means. It's going to be very exciting to see how obligating it is. We're going to sit on the shoulders of the state council and watch out for that. I'm addressing the suggestions that SV is alone about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2163	Then the representative Arne Nävra has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2168	Tomorrow, March 23rd, we celebrate the Nordic Day. We are actually celebrating the Helsinki Agreement. It has become an annual event with flagging and stuff. That's very good. Then it is very good that we adopt an opportunity study for Oslo–Stockholm 2.55. I have to say that Sverre Myrli had very good arguments and rhetoric around why we should now bet on an opportunity study. It was very nice to hear – not least that there is now enthusiasm about this. The first time I heard about this project was when the transport committee was on a trip to Stockholm. I guess that's about. Three years ago. Then we heard about this project. You world! This must be exciting – not least the financing of it. It was not about asking the two countries for money; it was about getting the project financed with a limited liability company or finding another option. The best of all was to relieve air traffic, 70 pst. of air traffic between Oslo and Stockholm. That's what you believe. That sounds ambitious. But when the lightning came between Lyon and Paris, you also went out with 70 pst. But it was 90 pst. 90 pst. by air traffic was replaced by a fast train between Lyon and Paris. So I think it's definitely time to assess whether we're not going to have an opportunity to build these two countries together. Both in the climate perspective and in the case of travel activities in Norway, I think there are also other opportunities for rapid action. We want to figure out a place there are even more passengers on the plane. There are over two million air passengers between Trondheim and Oslo each year in a normal year. There should also be an assessment of an opportunity study on the financing of such a track. If you get under three hours, it's clear that it's a very good alternative, yeah, maybe a much better option than taking a plane.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2180	I am very pleased with the possibility of discussing this matter in Stortinget. Since Norway took this initiative on a feasibility study for just the Oslo–Stockholm section, it has been a debate in the Riksdag. Tomas Eneroth was then challenged in Riksdagen, and I feel that the support that is now in Sweden for this feasibility study is very strong. He himself has expressed a very positive desire to follow up this, and we will do that. But before I say anything about it, it's clear that there are some challenges to rail in Norway. Paradoxically, we have really raised the investments on the railways and shown our willingness to do so. I feel that there was a change when Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa stood at Oslo S in the autumn of 2010 and realized the seriousness, and from that time on we have more than triple investment on the railway. But even with that, we have to admit that we're a little bit from following the promises and ambitions we've had. I look at the President and think about the Eastfold Railway and the challenges that are there. We're willing to drop between 65 billion. kr and 70 brd. kr in the east fold track, if we take with us Follobanen. So we know that if we're going to Halden, it might be 40 billion. In addition, kr. But paradoxically, we've actually used the money and our willingness to do it, but we're a piece of that ambition. It's important that we finish what we have here. But I think the distance pointed out here, the private initiative that lies here, and the possibilities to look at alternative forms of funding, are well worth going into. If we get a train offer of less than three hours between Stockholm and Oslo, I think we can say that the potential for traffic on this railway is very large. There are a lot of people who use to drag just this distance, and today is flying it a do. Can we get this down? So it's very important that we do a good job. I think that a feasibility study, which is now Sweden and Norway, is the right move to do in the first place, to see the potential for a first round between Norway and Sweden about it. And then I'm willing, based on what the possibility study points to, to look at solutions and possibilities based on that. But there's no doubt that there's a great potential here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2198	The Minister of Transport mentioned Tomas Eneroth, Swedish Minister of Infrastructure. I have also had the pleasure of meeting Eneroth several times, and I think it is happy with the signals that are now coming from the Swedish government: that one is really interested in doing something about the train connections between Oslo and Stockholm. There has been no lack of party speeches in the past either. I have been a member of the Nordic Council myself, and I do not know how many resolutions I have been involved in adopting on how important it is with better train services Oslo – Stockholm, Oslo – Gothenburg – Copenhagen and what it has not been. But it's gotten pretty little out of it. I see Minister of Transport Hareide as eager and positive to continue working on this, and then my question is: What kind of dialogue do Norwegian authorities have with Swedish authorities? And what dialogue does the Minister for Transport have with his Swedish colleague regarding the Oslo-Stockholm 2.55 initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2207	I have had a direct dialogue with my colleague in Sweden about this project. We are some about this possibility study. I also had a conversation with him before he had his debate in Parliament. Because of the pandemic situation that has influenced us, we've had a very close dialogue, often towards a meeting every week, and then this too has been a topic that we've come across several times. I feel that there is a very positive attitude from Swedish authorities, and now we are some about this feasibility study. This includes: on the private initiatives that have been taken. But we'll go in and look at the possibilities that lie there, both when it comes to what supply we can get in place, and what funding options are there. Then, of course, the Ministry of Finance's prayer is changed, but we look at the soundness of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2214	I hear the Minister for Transport use the term ‘private initiative’. It may be right to call it that, but I am familiar with the municipalities and regions behind the company Oslo–Stockholm 2.55. So there's at least a mix of public authorities and private interests. I guess that's what gets me to the next question. Firstly, I think it is good that one does not start here with a locating fight if the train should go there, whether the railway should go there or there, but that it is the Oslo-Stockholm 2.55 project that is the idea. Then it worked out a good concept for it, and so the idea is to raise a loan and pay it off by people paying for the ticket, to say it very simply. I have also recorded in the course of the process that there has been a call for clearer engagement from the two governments. That's what I hope to get on track now, to use such a term. Would it be possible that the Swedish Government and the Norwegian Government, for example, would be up to date? form a limited liability company?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2221	I understand that the representative Myrli is calling for commitment. What I can say is that the Norwegian government is engaged, and I feel that the Swedish is the same. I think that's a good starting point. So I think a feasibility study is right, because then you can look at several options. What I said in my previous line is that financing arrangements are, of course, an area that the government must consider as a whole. But I thought that this company – and that is quite right, there is a company with also significant public actors inside this page, but since it is a company, we have chosen to describe it as a private actor – have drawn some very exciting plans. I also believe we should be honest and say that it is also because of the initiative that has come from this company that we have seen the need for a feasibility study. We want to look at this, we want to go into this and consider exactly the plans that are there. I feel that there is complete agreement on this, also from the Swedish side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2228	Bane NOR is part of the government's railway reform. The National Audit Office points out that the company lacks cost control. This creates challenges for the implementation of planned railway projects. Is it that when the railway reform turns out to be a failure, the government chooses not to clean up, but only to include projects among new actors, such as New Roads? What will this moment mean for an opportunity study like the one we're talking about today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2233	When we think about feasibility studies, there might be an initiative of our own and not, for example, associated with some of the issues raised by the representative Mossleth with Bane NOR. We are dedicated to clarifying the responsibilities of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Railways and the Directorate of Railways. It appears in the setting here, and there's something we're looking at. I think, and we also comment on it in the national transport plan, that there is a need for clearer leadership here. We're working on it, and I think that's important. I started my post by pointing out that we have been willing to really invest in the Norwegian railway. Still, we don't get the results that I think we all wanted. It's a common challenge, and that's what we're looking at. We therefore think that the responsibilities between the Department, Bane NOR and the Directorate for Railways need to be even clearer and clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2238	I notice that the Council of State says that the government has been willing to invest in the railway. In view of the large exceedances, the cost gap and the lack of control, I would like to suggest: Is it really a matter of will, or is it a mere necessity not to remain completely in disaster mode with the exceedances that have characterized the development of the railways in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2243	I think it's right to invest in the railway. In the ten years that have passed, we've actually gone from a time when we took care of the railways in Norway, to a time when we're really developing him, he's building, for a new time. But yes, it has been demanding, linking to some basic conditions that have created significant overruns. We are all familiar with the Folloban and what start cost we thought he should have when we decided he for the first time. Now, the cost is over 36 billion. kr, while the size in the first phases decided to expand, there were 12 and 16 billion. NOK that was at stake. We also see, for example, where we are now building in Moss, that cost overruns have increased due to mercury. Nevertheless, it must be our responsibility to complete the work we are doing. It serves the Austlands area and intercity development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2250	I notice that the Council of State writes in the letter to the Committee that perhaps one of the first things he wants to address is looking at funding forms in this investigation. Then it's exciting to hear from the Council of State if he realizes that one in that assessment can also imagine a more active state commitment. I did not quite get it right and did not hear quite clearly an answer to the question from the representative Myrli whether he could imagine a cooperation on a state-owned company between the two countries that could be important players for funding. One can very well imagine that one here is talking about owning the infrastructure and renting out to the train companies that are running. That's an opportunity. Can we get an answer from the Council of State on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2256	That's exactly the kind of question that the representative Myrli raised, and that now Arne Nävra mentions here, I think should be clarified through the feasibility study. It may be that a common company can be a good tool. Now we are some about getting to this feasibility study, looking at what solutions to be there, and then it's also natural that the funding solution is something we're looking at. It's one of the reasons we've been pointing to a potential study — it's pretty exciting. I also thought that when we now have the common understanding and agreement with Sweden, we should follow this up. I thought it was exciting, and I thought that the representative proposal addressed a lot of exciting thoughts, and we need to see what we can do in this area. But as I also pointed out, it's important that we do our job by rail in Norway. This doesn't have to go beyond it anyway. This could be a positive addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2261	Thanks for the answer. As I said, I record a very positive attitude from the Council of State to such a cross-border railway. It's very, very happy for good railway hearts here in the country. What I don't quite understand is why the Council of State chooses such a solution instead of one, what to say, proper KVU. It's more extensive, and it would look at all of those sides. I cannot see that the Council of State has a greater room for action by proposing the option he is proposing – an opportunity study. What is a KVU that might not be able to take care of? I don't quite understand that difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2268	It's enough because I think that a concept evaluation as described by the representative proposal will require a lot of resources and be very extensive in this round. I think it's more appropriate that a feasibility study be conducted first, at a more superior level, to clarify our ability to follow up these plans, and whether there is a basis for going on. Because we have a dialogue with Sweden, I think it's more right in this round, and also because some of the economic thoughts that are underlying here can be more easily assessed through a feasibility study. A concept selection is often different sketches. But this is the concept now, and also because we have come to the agreement between Norway and Sweden, I choose to go on with that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2273	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2280	Let me say right away that I think an opportunity study is right where we are now, because this is a project that is getting more and more support in Norway, and it is also the way in Sweden that support is growing. Then we first need an opportunity study to see how it can be done, also to see if it is possible to have speeds higher than 255 km/h, and whether it is a high-speed project we're really going to look at in the future. I think you need a thoroughness in planning to be able to carry out a project as big as this. I'm very happy that we get this opportunity study, because, as was pointed out, it's the Nordic Day tomorrow, and is there one thing we need, is to think more Nordic, think more Scandinavia, also in the transport policy. Because it's clear that we see Scandinavia together, this is a region that can compete anywhere in the world, whether it's economic, political or in research and education. But then we also need a transport network that is ambitious enough and that connects the cities of Scandinavia well enough. We need a modern network that does. We need it because, as has been pointed out earlier, a high-speed Oslo-Stockholm network will be able to compete for air transport. But there's only one part of this. Because no matter how environmentally friendly the aeroplanes become, it's more important with a railway connection, because the capacity will be much larger. And so these are two cities that we need to travel not less to, but to travel more to in the future. We need more contact between Oslo and Stockholm and the other cities in Scandinavia. Then it is clear that such a project is extremely important for the Oslo region and extremely important for the Stockholm region, but also for the regions between them. You don't get that with a plane connection, you just get that with a high-speed rail. And when it's important for Oslo and important for Stockholm, it's also important for Norway and Sweden. What the potential study will show is that the operation of a high-speed railway pays off. It's about how we're going to get investment to get it up. As far as alternative funding is concerned, the government has done something in the past. In 2018 – then there were three parties in the government – we opened up so that life insurance companies and pension funds could invest their client funds in infrastructure. They need long-term investment, which provides a stable and secure return. It was a step we took that time. In this potential study, it is necessary to consider whether there are other things that can be done to open up external funding. But this is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2293	I'm not going to prejudge the events with an interpellation – it's going to be here in the hall if not for so long, from my party colleague Eirik Faret Sakarisassen, who's present. It comes, about high-speed railways and possibly a high-speed investigation here in the country. But it's nice to have a rail debate left in the hall. It's fine. I want to hang on to what has been mentioned about domestic routes as well. It is natural to think that if a study of this kind proves that Oslo–Stockholm is profitable, it is permissible to think about it further, thinking that it might be profitable on some sections of Norway as well – and not only economically, it is at least profitable for the environment. Then there are some arguments that the representative Elvesuen had in mind, which it is quite important to bring forward. It's that regardless of whether we get electric planes, whether we get electric cars, there's something about the train that none of the other sources can hit. Firstly, it is not a microplastic pollution source, as the tyres on our cars are – it is a major problem, it ends up in the sea. So it's also like there's going to be a fight for energy in the future whether it's renewable. The electrical energy is valuable. There's gonna be a fight about it, too. We've seen that. Then we know that the railway is no one to compete with in terms of energy efficiency, maybe it's the five-six-way in relation to a lot that's car-based, road-based. We have to bring this with us. If I'm going to be completely honest, I don't think it's easy to carry that much timber on planes either. And then finally, it's a moment that's also important, and as the representative of Elvesuen also said, with airplanes you only have the end points to operate, while with a train you can stop along the way. That's a pretty big difference. I believe that in the case of freight transport, and in the case of the capacity of passenger transport, the train will win greatly. It's not a museum, it's not old-fashioned, thinking trains. What we see is that the continent is very much betting on trains. I'm terrified that we'll stay on the platform while the high-speed trains sweep between the capitals and the big cities of Europe. It will be exciting to see if the Council of State would like to comment on the possibilities for a next step, i.e. on some sections of Norway, possibly also in the debate surrounding the interpellation, with a new rail speed survey in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2304	I thank you for a good debate. There are many things that have been said about this, and I thought I would focus on someone that I think is quite important. One is that there must be a passenger base. That's really what this case is about, you have a passenger base, someone who is willing to pay to travel from a to b. At the same time, it's a significant moment, and it's regional magnification. In the border areas, such as Eastfold, for example, it is a great opportunity to link regions across borders. In the case of Oslo–Stockholm, there are three million people located between Oslo and Stockholm. We had a project called «8 million city»: Oslo, Gothenburg and Copenhagen. There are eight million people who could probably travel Oslo–Gøteborg–København either via Øresund or via the new link over Helsingborg and Helsingör. It covers an area of eight million people. This is, of course, a powerhouse in the European context. That's the kind of thinking you need. Driving Oslo-Stockholm, 40 miles by train, I don't think you need a high speed for – 130 km/h. It's supposed to stop in between, right? I think 250 km/h in itself is high-speed for Norway. The Swedes have also reduced their demand for what is high speed. The third thing I want to talk about is the missing link. The main problem is that both Norway and Sweden are thinking south – we are going south. The Swedes build Stockholm–Malmø, over Øresund and over Fehmarnbelt in Denmark down towards the continent. But there are still some areas where the Swedes have little interest and Norway can be of great interest. Between Lake Corn and Öxnered there are 13 miles, 3 miles on the Norwegian side and 10 miles on the Swedish side. How are you going to make the Swedes understand that there's something they should invest in? When you talk to Oslo-Stockholm, it'll be 60 pst. the costs incurred by the Swedes. There's 60 pst left. from Arvika to Oslo to the Norwegian side. It is about finding a method of financing that is not only good in terms of rail construction but can also be in a bilateral relationship. We've been talking about a common Nordic funding system, but what's important is not to make this more complicated than it needs to be. There is actually a public owned company on the Swedish side between those affected, which is behind Oslo–Stockholm 2.55.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2317	We should not make this more difficult than it is – I think that was very wise words from the case rapporteur. That's why I'm a little surprised by the contribution of the representative Ola Elvestuen, who consistently talked about a high-speed project. For this is not a high-speed project. Usually the definition of the train is more than 250 km/h. This is a conventional train concept that should go on conventional rail tracks, as professionals would have said – i.e. less than 250 km/h. One could say that it's high speed, but it's not a high-speed project or a high-speed project, which has also been launched. There's some completely different concepts than what we're talking about here. These are trains which are partly to be run on existing railways and which must partly have a new rail way. It has been launched that on the Norwegian side it must be approx. from Lillestrøm to Arvika, and that is the so-called Nobel Banana in Sweden. Apart from that, trains shall operate on the existing railway and it shall be capable of operating with a journey time of less than three hours. That's what the whole time, as far as I've known, has been the point of they starting to figure this out. One had to bring down the travel time for less than three hours. So I hope that the representative Elvesuen doesn't hesitate to do this now and make it into something other than what it is. It's a very interesting project. I know that someone else has other plans, but Oslo–Stockholm 2.55 and what we have heard about earlier today is a very interesting project that we need to support further. As I said, this is about high-speed trains, but not high-speed trains. It makes me think – it was Oslo’s former rapporteur, Rolf Stranger, who once said it – that Oslo is a big city, but Oslo is not a big city.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2324	Oslo is a city of ambition. Oslo is the smallest of the world's cities and has a meaning far beyond what size should really be. Then you also have to think like that when it comes to the relationships we're going to have. Because that's exactly what we've been up to in the past – we've worked with the ‘8 million city’ in the past, towards Copenhagen. Today there is a project with the cooperation body STRING and a separate OECD investigation that looks at the potential from Hamburg to Oslo. I think an opportunity study is right to have where we are now, also to look at the level of ambition to be put on between Oslo and Stockholm. There must be cooperation between Norway and Sweden. If it should be exactly the 2.55 project, there will be a conclusion to the possibility study as you go on or you can see if it can be more profitable with a higher level of ambition. Of course, we are looking up this project against other projects we have in Norway, fortunately. And I'm really pleased that one point from the Granvolden platform, that we're going to look at route high-speed investigations also for Norway, is followed up in the national transport plan. Now there's a stretching high-speed investigation for Oslo-Trondheim. Obviously, having a double-track Hamar-Lillehammer doesn't give you the right gain if you don't want to look at the win you can get from Oslo and all the way to Trondheim. There's a lot of positive, and there's a lot of good about this potential study. But we have to look up and raise the level of ambition, see the potential and opportunities of Scandinavia as a whole, what economic gains you get, how this can contribute to building this region stronger together. And the region that's right for Oslo is Scandinavia – that's the one we're going to connect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2350	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2357	The case concerns a amendment to the law that occupational diving and unloading are covered by the Working Environment Act. It is a very important but demanding matter. I would like to thank the Committee for very good cooperation, which ended with a unanimous recommendation for the amendment of the law, which says that the Working Environment Act should also cover diving operations and unloading – this sea if the Progress Party is not included in a number of committee majority comments. We have thus received a very good basis for the amendment of the law, when all the parties in the committee are behind the bill promoted by the government. Before I come into the committee position, I would like to stress something that is not mentioned in the vote, namely that when the committee writes about diving operations and unloading, this does not include rescue diving and other emergency diving, such as. The rescue company performs. This type of activity is not intended to be regulated by the Working Environment Act. The legislative proposal explicitly states that the scope of the Labour Environment Act for occupational diving is to be governed by the Working Environment Act. For the sake of simplicity, the term ‘innaskjær diving’ is used, i.e. diving operations in Norwegian territorial waters. The committee consulted with 13 organisations on Zoom. There were very different attitudes to the government's proposals. During the hearing, it was also claimed, inter alia: from Seafood Norway, that the government had broken the investigation instruction, and that therefore the proposition had to be returned to the government for further impact assessment. On this basis, I sent a letter to the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, on 11 February, asking for an answer as to whether the investigation instructions had been followed, and whether the case was sufficiently consistent. In the Council's reply, it was found that written recordings had been made. There had been meetings before, during and after general consultation. Professional input had been received from both the Labour Inspectorate and the Maritime Directorate, and the Stortinget was presented for various reasons and consequences. On this basis, a unanimous committee examined the matter. There is considerable disagreement in principle between the Hearing Officers and the Committee agrees with the Ministry that none of the solutions is inconvenient. However, the majority of the Committee, i.e. all except the members of the Progress Party, places the emphasis on the best and most comprehensive regulation of safety rules, regulation of working time and employment in the Working Environment Act. Therefore, in view of the need for safer conditions for divers, the majority of governments support the principle solution. Therefore, these conditions are to be regulated by the Working Environment Act with the Labour Inspectorate as supervisory authority. So this was not included in the Committee's comment, but the Progress Party is on the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and that is what is essential. Divers who do not have dive-related tasks alone have been an important topic for the Committee. Several maritime organisations wishing to maintain current legislation have stated that it would be fundamentally unfortunate to divide the supervisory responsibilities and regulations on the ship between the Working Environment Act and the Maritime Code. These organisations also find it difficult to put it into practice. This applies in particular to the so-called dive sailors. It is this theme that has been fundamental throughout our setting. So we've concluded with what I described, and there's a significant emphasis on the professional recordings, not least from the Norwegian Maritime Medicine and Diving Medicine Centre, which has the best competence in this area in the country. It is also clear that what we have laid down here is an attitude that means that there are more than just those who are employed, who are covered by it all – including those who are seafaring traders, to be included in the same way as the employees. Proposals have been made in the position that the department should come back with a detailed explanation to look at the circumstances that are particularly demanding. This applies, inter alia, to: that there are provisions for sick pay in ship legislation that are better than in labour law. There are also issues related to the captain’s responsibilities during such operations. As I said: Sick-hearted businessmen have been thoroughly involved and proposals have been made for a regulation to be introduced, which in total implies a level playing field in order to ensure that there are clean conditions throughout the industry, regardless of the employment situation under the Employment Environment Act used. I recommend the vote as a majority in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2378	Overall, this is about a matter that most people seem to agree on. Divers deserve better protection, comprehensive legislation and competent supervision. At least everyone has said that they want it. There are now a number of workers who are not adequately protected by the law. Here, the Labour Party agrees with LO's view that the Work Environment Act must cover all workers unless they are covered by other equivalent legislation. Professional diving is special and at the same time has a medical impact page. It imposes high standards of professional competence on the supervisory authorities, and there is no doubt about the need. The Swedish Labour Inspectorate’s report ‘Innaskjær’, summarising 64 overseeing the diving industry from 2016 to 2018, shows that 63 pst responded. of the supervision, and that in 60 pst. of the establishments were non-conformities which, in the worst case, could have fatal consequences. 197 divers provided the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with a call for all work dives to be subject to the Working Environment Act with one supervisory body where the supervisory competence for diving is combined. In a 2018 survey conducted by Industrie Energie among divers, 57 p.m. that they had experienced events where they feared for their own life and health. The vast majority of the hearing bodies have identified deficiencies in the proposition which may lead to confusion. Some of it has been attempted through the work of the Committee, for example: in the case of self-employed persons. Other conditions are impossible for the Storting to go deeper into. It is the government that has investigative powers and the responsibility to implement the law. But we've given some clear leads. I quote from the majority vote: ‘The majority believe that the government should come back to Stortinget with a statement on the scope of the Working Environment Act on Professional Diving and the follow-up of the amendment by the Labour Inspectorate, in order to ensure that the Stortinget can discuss more closely the demanding distinction between the Ship Labour Act and the Ship Safety Act versus the Working Environment Act of the Professional Divers who are also crewed on board ships.’ For example, this applies to health insurance rules that are currently governed by the Ship Labour Act. It is also about the captain's responsibilities when diving is carried out, as well as the clarification of the provisions relating to working and rest periods in the case of dive operations at sea. We expect the Council of State to clarify these matters before the law enters into force, and without delay at the time when the law will come into force. Furthermore, we expect the Stortinget to be involved in line with the majority opinion and the decisions we take. We also expect the government to take decisions immediately and at the latest tomorrow, contact the parties and follow up with them in line with the decision, so that the parties together, based on the Working Environment Act, ensure a level playing field and a level playing field that meets the industry's needs for diving services and health, environment and safety for those performing underwater work. I would like to be confirmed by the Council of State that the parties are included in the further work prior to the implementation of the law. If the parties agree on adjustments to the bill change, the Storting may decide. Finally, like the case rapporteur, I would like to stress that the bill does not apply to liferafts and other emergency diving to ensure shipwreck, and to the risk of loss of life. Such diving differs significantly from commercial diving operators in the breeding industry, for example, to which the legislative proposal applies, by not being planned on time, but rather involves dealing with emergency situations that need to be resolved there and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2402	When this case was mentioned in the summer of 2020, the board of trust elected in Abyss Aqua, Daniel Pilskog, said the following: ‘This is a major step in the right direction. It's pretty much the same job we divers do, whether it's diving from the dock or from the boat. So we should be able to have competent supervision and regulation. I think it's an important step towards professionalising the industry." The government is now taking the necessary steps to provide a vulnerable profession with the protection it deserves. These are workers who carry out extremely dangerous work and who need a law to ensure a safe and sound working environment. It's about the life, health and safety of the professional divers. Diving is a profession with an accident risk and it has made the impression of hearing about the divers’ experiences. These are spouses, mothers and fathers who ask to get home safely from their work. That's not too much to ask for. Unfortunately, there are too many stories about when it was going wrong – whether he who got the diving equipment so far before it was sucked into a boat propeller, about those who have suffered damage because of nitrogen bubbles that expand in the brain and spine, and about those who have run out of air because of a misunderstanding. With the case presented today, we assure the divers better working conditions and a comprehensive diving supervision under the direction of the Labour Inspectorate. Not to be doubted – occupational diving is both physically and mentally stressful and poses a high risk of job-related death and serious harm. We are taking that seriously today. The Labour Inspectorate’s report ‘Innaskjär’ shows that 63 pst reactions were made. of the supervision, and that in 60 pst. of the establishments were non-conformities which, in the worst case, could have fatal consequences. We are taking that seriously today. Senior medical examiner at Haukeland Hospital Endre Sundal has been working with divers for almost 20 years. He says that many innskjer divers have been exposed to serious incidents, and he goes on to say that they now see many of the same symptoms of innskjer divers as they previously saw in the North Sea divers. They find both the influence of the brain, a lot of noise damage and a lot of mental problems, such as post-traumatic stress. In Free Trade Movement, we could read about Tobbe, who carries a lucky bear in the raggsock every time he dives. He brought it with him so that he would come up again to the surface. The number of deaths in man-made diving is significantly higher than that of other industries. Therefore, the right considers that there should be great caution in allowing divers to work under burdensome working time arrangements. Total working time is a major risk, even if a smaller part of working time is involved in diving. Occupational health research clearly shows that long periods of work give rise to an accident risk and it has increased. According to STAMI, a working time of more than eight hours increases the risk of accidents of about 50 pst. and over 12 hours of about 100 pst., with a cumulative effect beyond the working hours. Some in the industry are concerned about working time arrangements in the event of a change in legislation. However, the right considers that the Labour Environment Act provides sufficient flexibility to adapt divers on ships, not least to the risk picture. The proposed legislation also ensures a level playing field and a level playing field, irrespective of where the dive is conducted. It is appropriate in view of the fact that the dive itself is the risk-creating element. Furthermore, the right considers that one legislation and one supervisory authority are necessary in order to ensure uniform enforcement and follow-up of the industry. The Labour Inspectorate has a long experience of diving supervision and has built up, over several years, a wide range of competences in this area, which the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs does not have. There have been hearings, numerous recordings and many meetings in this case. Given all the considerations, it is our clear opinion that occupational diving should be regulated by the Working Environment Act, with the Labour Inspectorate as supervisory authority. It's both right and important. In this assessment, we place considerable emphasis on professional advice and the fact that 57 pst. by the professional divers surveyed at Industri Energie, state that they have feared life at work. We have to do what we can to make sure that Tobbe and his colleagues feel safe at work and that they have to get up to the surface. We do that today by voting in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2431	Several of the previous speakers have thoroughly addressed the facts and the various objections to this proposal. Let me just say first that in Norway we have had animal-breeding experience in how it works if we manage serious risks of diving errors. The North Sea divers are among those who have paid an excessive bill for it, which we hope to be able to avoid in the future. This means that the Progress Party supports the main action: Professional diving should be included in the work environment law, as is actively called for by several consultation bodies. However, when we have a supplementary proposal that I would like to make with this, it is a matter of many of the other hearing authorities thinking that by the way that the Storting manages this matter, the new potential follow-up error arises, which makes it inconspicuous to follow it, and which makes it harder for the part of the business that has divers who dive in a smaller part of their working time, for example. because they are added as crew on board a boat. This means that the Progress Party in this process has been concerned first of all to establish that it should be safe, that it should be an effective regulatory framework for actors engaged in professional diving in Norway, either as a self-employed person or by the addition of them to a company. But we have also asked, through the proposal, that the government come back and respond to what I find very few actually spend time in the debate, that is, the main objection of several other major business actors, that what the Storting and the government suggest that we should spend in sum may, for some of the divers who dive in a smaller part of their working hours, as well as with a sufficient level of protection, be covered by the laws of the Ship Safety Act and the Shipwork Act. I feel that there are also several of the other parties who say – that they want an answer to it through the distribution that is now being requested. I only want to say that if there is a correct interpretation – there may be a few comments about later – it underlines the importance of this work being done properly by the government before the promise comes into force, for the simple reason that this must be a regulation that is not only understandable to the economic operators, to be aligned, but which is practically feasible for all the employees who are currently working on the ship and who are diving as a small part of the part-time job say. I think there should be a basis for several parties to support that proposal, which does not distort the use of the work environment law, but which says that one should come back and look at concrete assessments of this. But I assume that the Storting thinks it's different. I think it's a pity, because I think it could have given us a boost to an effective and better regulation and legislation for both businessmen and employees who are carrying out this important but risky work, and at the same time we could be able to carry out to a greater extent many of the business operators who have been very clear in their recordings, both through the treatment and not least after the setting was known. This means that we are going to maintain our proposal today, and we would have hoped that several parties would review it until tomorrow if they would join that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2442	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2447	I don't think human beings are more alone than when they're underwater, perhaps in harsh weather conditions, when the waves beat and the forces of nature decay. Today, the Stortinget can ensure that professional divers are a little less self-employed, protected by the Working Environment Act and with a requirement that employers provide the individual with more security. This proposition shall cover the field of professional diving and shall provide a common protection law and strengthened supervision through the Labour Inspectorate. SV would particularly like to thank those insiders who have raised their voice and committed themselves to diving security, and Industry Energy, who have been one of the most obvious voices to ensure better legal protection. We should also remember today the many who have lost their lives or lived with injuries. Pioneer divers, who, since the oil age in Norway began seriously in the 1970s, have suffered injuries and late injuries that have caused many ill-fits. We'll think of the pain the individual has felt, but also the ill and sad many families have sat back with after the loss of one they were happy in. All of these had been told that the law gave them protection, that employers took the security seriously, and that society didn't forget them. Some of this makes us a little bit up for today. Norway prepared the law for the North Sea divers early in the 1990s, but we should not pretend that this is just something that happened before. It's still happening. A study of Industry Energy carried out in 2018, gave alarming figures. 57 pst. By the divers they said they had experienced events where they feared for their own life. A report from the Labour Inspectorate in 2019 – which several others also mentioned – summarizing 64 supervision from 2016 to 2018 – showed that 60 pst. of the undertakings had deviations which, in the worst case, could have fatal consequences. Everyone should feel safe at work. Everyone should come home to family and friends without physical or mental damage. Everyone in Norway should be protected by Norwegian laws, whether they are at work or not. Questions have been asked whether this matter has been adequately dealt with. That's my SV that it is. Public distribution and reports have been provided and hearings carried out, and the Labour and Social Committee has received many input and feedback. In SV, we are willing to make a decision in this matter, precisely for the many who fuel safe and secure working conditions. I recognize that this does not remove everyone happening in the sea and records that there are coming critical recordings. They're going to take us on. My good friend and district manager in Industrie Energie, Ommund Stokka, said the following when the news of the bill came: ‘For a long time, there has been doubts about the law and supervision of divers, depending on the job they do. Together with a comprehensive medical profession and a large part of the employer's side, we have claimed that professional diving should not be divided into several laws and supervision. It is very positive that the Minister now listens to the professional divers.’ It may be unusual for the Council of State to boast about the signatures, and I don't recommend getting too used to it, but in this case, I would like to commend the government for having our soundtracks against the professionals and their representatives in the trade union movement. Diving will still be dangerous. The forces of nature cannot be controlled by man. But promises are man-made. Politics is man-made. We as the populace can rule the laws. We can ensure that professional divers are given a stronger protection, a safer everyday life and less risk of accidents and death. That means these changes in laws will lead to, and we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2471	Coastal occupational diving is currently regulated by the Working Environment Act, on the one hand by the Maritime Regulations, with two different supervisory bodies, and on the other hand without specific legislation. In the case of professional diving from ships, the proposal will in substance imply the same solution as it has been in force since 1993 for the petroleum industry. This means that the work environment law will apply to the divers, but not to the rest of the crew. The Maritime Law Administration, with the Maritime Directorate as its supervisory seat, regulates the conditions for the ship and its crew. It has been a good round of hearings in the case, and there has been significant and primal discomfort in the hearing. It deals, as we have heard, with the rules of law applicable to insiders' professional diving, which is made by crews on ships. There have been important recordings for both solutions. The Christian People's Party is grateful for all the recordings. Various interests have developed their views, and this has been particularly informative for the matter. The Christian People's Party supports a solution in which all interior diving is regulated by one regulation and is subject to one supervision. This will ensure a holistic enforcement and follow-up of the industry. But not least, this will raise the issue of security. Diving involves high risks, which are not related to serious consequences. Divers themselves seem to support the proposal to base the Work Environment Act and collect the supervisory image of the Labour Inspectorate. Although sea diving time represents a short part of the total working time of many professional divers, it is entirely decisive for safety that there are strict requirements for sleep time. Occupational health research shows that long periods of work increase the risk of accidents. The incidence of death-related workers is much higher before diving than in other occupations. It is the total amount of working time that increases the risk, not just the amount of time that goes into the dive itself. Professor Dr.med. Marit Groning in the Norwegian Center for Maritime Medicine and Diving Medicine says in her ear that the government has put forward a good bill. She is a neurologist and has worked with professional divers for 20 years. Every one of you is a risk, says Marit Greening, and breeding diving is physically hard diving with a very special risk profile, which is as big as in North Sea diving. Adding the supervisory image to the Labour Inspectorate is an advantage, as they have a long experience of diving supervision and have built up wide competences in this area over several years. The Christian People's Party understands the objections that have emerged, but believes that the care of security must be the most weighty. Work environment laws shall apply to those involved in diving operations, because these operations, including planning and implementation, represent a high risk. This means that all people who are supposed to be diving do not switch between two laws, but are regulated by one and the same law, the work environment law. The unemployment rate is currently covered by work environment laws or maritime laws dealing with working time regulation. It is unfortunate that central protection does not apply to this profession. Therefore, the Christian People's Party suggests that it is clarified that the losses are not covered by the exemption for maritime transport but are covered by the work environment law. The Christian People's Party will also support B, which aims to have a close dialogue with the parties for an ongoing evaluation of the impact of regulatory adjustments. The aim is to have legislation that ensures safety for workers, but also works in practice. This also means that it is appropriate to review the introduction of a regulation requiring hours of work and sleep for self-employed workers and professionals engaged in professional diving from ships, in the same way as workers under the environmental protection law. Although there are different aspects of legislation for these occupational groups, the importance of safety must be paramount. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will support the proposals in both A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2501	Today's draft law means that the Working Environment Act applies to the professional diving of all employees, i.e. even when diving occurs from ships. As stated in the legislative proposal, several actors believe that such diving should be regulated by maritime law. I understand that. As the Ministry refers to in the proposition, important consideration can be given to both solutions, but none of the solutions are inconvenient. However, when the government has ended up proposing that the Working Environment Act should also apply to this part of professional diving, there are several reasons for this. Of course, the most important is the particular risk of diving. In this context, I have placed great emphasis on the very clear professional advice from the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate that the Working Environment Act should apply, with the Labour Inspectorate as the supervisory seat. Similarly, it is difficult to ignore similar advice from, among other things. Norwegian Center for Maritime Medicine and Diving Medicine. The Labour Inspectorate has a long experience of diving supervision and has built up broad competences in this area over the years. Given the risk of occupational diving, I believe it is particularly important that this activity is subject to competent and comprehensive diving supervision. As I see it, in assessing which regulatory regime is most appropriate, it is also an important point that the actual work performed – the diving – as the clear general rule is not related to shipping or the ship as such other than as a physical starting point for the operation. I believe that the best reasons speak for the same type of diving operation, for example. in relation to the maintenance of a farm, should be subject to the same legislation and to the same supervisory regime, irrespective of where it is physically diverted from. An equal legal basis would also mean equal competition between actors carrying out the same activity, regardless of whether the divers are organised as on-board or land-based workers. Furthermore, the amendment will ensure that pectinidae and similar diving activities do not fall within the scope of the legal regimes but will be subject to the protection and supervisory regime of the Work Environment Act, including the specific diving rules laid down under the Working Environment Act. One consequence of the inclusion of all incisions under the Working Environment Act will be that for ships engaged in diving activities there will be two regulatory and supervisory regimes. The Labour Inspectorate will oversee the dives and dive operations in accordance with the rules of the Working Environment Act, while the Maritime Directorate will oversee the ship in accordance with maritime legislation. This would require, as at present, some cooperation between supervisory authorities. In this context, I would like to point out that today, too, there is a shared regulatory and supervisory regime for ship diving. The maritime legislation applies only when the diving operation is performed by the ship's normal crew, i.e. enumerated crew. Thus, when such diving is carried out by other workers, the employment environment law and the Labour Inspectorate apply. I have also taken note of the Rome decisions of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, which, of course, the government will respond appropriately. However, I need to comment now on Decision II under B, just to make it quite clear. The need to clarify the captain's responsibilities, if any, is identified when diving is carried out. In this respect, I would like to stress that the Ministry's proposal is not intended in any way to rock the master's authority under the Ship Safety Act. I also need to state that in the government's proposal there is no devaluation of maritime legislation. The intention is only to regulate the particularly vulnerable situation of the divers, for the reasons I have just gone through. Three short things in the end. As far as tamps are concerned, as I believe the committee has also received, from several organizations which are sceptical of the proposal, and which claim that it is, or may be, contrary to the ILO Maritime Labour Convention. This claim, as far as we have been able to bring the matter to the fore, has not been raised before, and I do not think it was up to the Stortingen hearing on the matter. In any case, we shall not take lightly our obligations under international law and will examine them further. I would also like to point out that the second part of the bill will at last mean that losers and Losaspirants will also be subject to the Working Environment Act. There is a broad consensus on the change, and I know that it is very longed for by the losers themselves. Finally, of course, we will continue to have close dialogue with the parties. This also applies in the period from the decision of the Storting and to the implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2535	In the proposals for decisions in the majority voting, there are some things that need clarification. I am pleased that during the debate and through the intervention of the Council of State we have now put one of those things into place, that there should be no doubt about the captain's responsibilities. Then we are left with questions related to sick pay, working time and rest. I am also pleased that the Council of State will involve the parties in dialogue about this. The law shall apply from the time the King decides. My question to the Council of State is: When does the Council of State see that the law will come into force, and will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that these clarifications are in place before the law enters into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2546	I have not speculated any particular time for the law to come into force, but the answer to the second part of the question is: I imagine we will make the clarifications that the Storting has also raised now, before the law comes into force. I think it's natural to get done away with as many of the clarifications as possible. Finally, it is fine that we then agree, both committee, magnificence and government, that there has been no intention here of doubting the captain's role in maritime legislation. I guess I didn't realize that our proposition initially did, but it's an important clarification to include anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2553	I agree with that, and I am glad that the Council of State clearly signals that one should aim to clarify the other things before the law comes into force. We hope that this will happen without any delay in the implementation of the law. In this way, I can say that the parties have been on us throughout the process, so they will I believe are ready at any time to stand before the Council of State. I can also say that we from Stortinget's side, if you see that it is necessary to get back to Stortinget, can carry out such a process very quickly. This was actually more like a comment and a receipt – I am pleased that we are going to have further dialogue on this, and we expect the law to come into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2560	I think we agree here, that we should both cooperate and talk with the parties. Then there is no doubt that here the parties believe different things, and the committee has also put nothing hidden on it or expressed otherwise than that. The point 2 is that there are some practical clarifications that also have to be made, because I am concerned that we will have to do this as quickly as possible. And then there are some things Stortinget asks the government to come back to Stortinget with, and it will be an assessment question of how much you should come back with in an appropriate way before any entry into force. But I also agree with the representative of Grande that we should not have any unnecessary delays in doing so. I'm concerned that we're going to get this code in place. Then, of course, there are two sides. Here you have to do both the necessary things that Stortinget asks us to take an extra look at, and at the same time do it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2567	Several major business actors, such as Sjømat Norway and the Kystrederien, and employee organisations such as the Norwegian Maritime Association and the Norwegian Maritime Officers' Association, have reported that they are concerned about the changes that are now being made and that it is difficult to see that there are no different problem options that may arise for crews on ships that perform diving as a small part of their work. For this reason, the question is quite simply: how will this be done, for example: The legislative areas, with these areas of law, are now understood? Will e.g. a crew that traditionally dives in approximately 10 pst. of its total working time, be regulated by the environmental law or by the ship's labour law at different times on board the ship?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2574	First, as I said, it's perfectly legitimate and even good arguments for choosing another solution as well. At the same time, it's about what you focus most on. What we have stressed most is the same thing as a large majority in the United Kingdom, namely the technical advice relating to the safety of diving, as a specifically vulnerable profession and activity. And the whole point here is that regardless of where the dive takes place, all diving will be subject to the same legislation and the same supervisory authority. Then there are two main points of concern. One is the more nutritional concerns, and I have great sympathy for them. It is one, and the other is the one that suggests that this could weaken the ship's labour law or the legislation applicable to workers at sea. There we're busy clarifying that it won't. It's a good code for those who are covered by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2581	That's so interesting. Point one: We fully share the understanding of how important it is to regulate the work environment law. The question is how to deal with what is for all practical purposes a minority of cases and where diving takes place in a smaller use of total working time. The question is, however, to the extent that it is unanswered. The situation in which we can end up is that the same worker, on different duties on board the boat – on the same watch – may be subject to different types of legislation, including the characteristics of the ship’s work law, such as: linked to sick pay. Does the Council acknowledge that with the legislation currently in force, for example: the rights of workers to sick pay are weaker by being placed in the labour environment law than they would be in today's ship's labour law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2586	Now there are two slightly different questions. One is whether one has different assignments on a ship subject to different types of laws. What is quite clear is that there will be two regulations and two supervisory authorities for a ship, but to the extent that you do diving and are there as a dive, you will be subject to the legislation to which the Stortinget is now joining, and for which I understand the Progress Party is also subject, then to the Working Environment Act and the Labour Inspectorate. This type of double regulation is also not unknown; it is common practice for other diving groups, for example. related to offshore. So I see that the committee is asking about sick pay, because there's a slightly different wording in the ship's labour law than what's in the law on social security, and that's a problem we're going to look at, of course. But I must admit that the purpose here has not been to change the health money code for either one or the other, but to provide a good, safe and predictable follow-up of divers no matter where they dive from.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2593	Those who listen to this debate may get the impression that there is a real disagreement between the Progress Party and the rest. That's not the case. The Progress Party finally concluded that they also support the amendment of the law. But it's a Roman number decision by a majority, all except the Advance Party, which is likely to be adopted, and my question is that any law is usually followed by a regulation. This is a law which, not least, needs regulations, which is referred to in the Roman Numeral Decision under B. Will the Council of State facilitate the simultaneous entry of both regulation and law, so that we can ensure that it is a whole, and thus also that the statement comes quickly, so that we can see the whole when the department has gone even more thoroughly into the dilemmas that are here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2598	When it comes to the question of regulation and law, I can't answer it on the stand. As far as the size should be concerned, it is important to have a delimitation there, of course, the size should not be subject to treatment regulations. But I guess I see that there's no big disagreement here. In order for the Ministry to lay down legislation and regulations, a clear legal framework is needed. The size of the house today decides this law house, and then you have some questions that you want us to work with, which is what these Roman number decisions say. I have said that, of course, we should follow up. And to the extent that it's necessary, or maybe even beyond that – the Storting will get information even if you want to – we inform in an appropriate way. When this comes into force, the regulations will be based on that legal framework, and I am interested that this legislation will be as simple, understandable and enforceable as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2604	What's special here is that the Storting gives both a law firm and asks for an explanation. It's a whole, and it's a whole thing that's needed for you to have a basis for designing the necessary regulations based on the Biggest discussions. So another theme that has been very prominent: the risk of occupational diving is great, and those who want to make sure that it is safe are a team. It's a team that's in charge of the dive, and the whole team is dependent on that to get that security. There have been several people who have mentioned how many people are needed on that team, and I want to ask the Council of State to consider whether one does not have to go into that part of the whole. It's a theme that we haven't really gone into, and it's a need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2611	I also have to say that she can do it. But now I'm a little uncertain about what the representative is aiming for, whether he thinks we should go in and assess how many people are needed in a team around diving. I simply have to say that it was a little difficult to see what the question was actually about. Therefore, I choose to answer that it may be, but then I may have to understand exactly what the representative is asking for, before I say something clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2616	Then Lundtigen will have a new opportunity in a last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2621	It's a dive operation. It's people who are in the water, and it's people who are over the water. Those above the water may be in a boat or in another device. It's diving leaders, it's the people who make sure the whole thing is sound. It is therefore essential that one has sufficient crew to ensure it and that it is therefore clarified so that the scope of the crew should not be a competitive advantage or a competitive disadvantage for those who carry it out. That's the exact part of what I asked you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2626	Then I understand. I understand what the representative is aiming for, but it is a little difficult to understand if he then believes that the question is about the parts of this team that are not themselves divers, for example. could be persons patterned on a ship – subject to assessment by the Labour Inspectorate. I just think that the answer to this is that we might get back to that. It may be that this is also an assessment that needs to be made, but I cannot say anything about it on the standing floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2631	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2638	I would have believed that when an almost collective gathering was in agreement – including the committee – one would have been a little clearer about what would be the result afterwards, but after listening to the debate, it seems that there are more questions than answers. It is a little unusual when Stortinget deals with a change in the law, that one must ask the government to come back to Stortinget before she can be put into action. There's a bunch of things that are kind of weird here. The case arouses a lot of attention along the coast, which it specifically concerns. In my home district, we have a large aquaculture industry that sometimes needs to visit service boats. They sometimes have to dive to see if the merdan are good and the needs are intact, as a small part of their job. Now it seems that the majority of Stortinget wants these service boats to have one code for the crew and another code for the one who is a sailor, or who has a different function in general, and who has a dive mission as a small part of his position. So this person has to be subject to a different code than the rest of the crew. It seems a little strange, and I think it's strange that no more will be with the Progress Party to address that issue. When you read the configuration, you get the impression that the events are currently not supported by a system. But if you go into the law, it's quite the same phrase in the ship's labour law and in the work environment law for diving – it's a quite identical piece of legislation. The difference is only for those who have the supervision image. For what goes on the ship's labour law, it is the Maritime Directorate that has the supervisory image, while for the work environment law it is the Labour Inspectorate. But there is someone who supervises both, based on a fairly similar code, and then I react very strongly to the fact that the majority correctly print out in the comments: ‘The Directorate for Maritime Affairs does not have this competence. It is important that professional diving is subject to competent and comprehensive diving supervision.’;» So a large number on Stortinget, minus the Progress Party, says that the directorate that has this task today does not have competence on it. The Council of State also confirms it in the proposition, where he actually says that it is an administrative advantage to implement it, because then the Directorate of Maritime Affairs will not be responsible for the oversight of divers on ships. So one can save money on the Maritime Directorate's budget. It would have been very interesting to hear if the Council of State is in agreement with the majority of the Committee, which believes that the Directorate of Maritime Affairs does not have competence in what they actually have as their task today. I hope it's a communication or a plural error, which determines that an important directorate that has a task does not have competence in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2652	The Chief Speaker of the Progress Party, the representative of Dale, said that the Progress Party supports the main action. No, that's much more precise. The Progress Party supports the amendment of the law. The Progress Party supports the amendment of the law, and a great deal of thanks to the Progress Party for it. Thus, one supports the inclusion of professional divers and pilots under the Working Environment Act and that the body is the Labour Inspectorate. It's not right to try to create the impression that the last speaker also gave the impression that the Progress Party is in a different position. That's not the case. It was not obvious that there would be unanimity in the Committee on the Conclusion, but it has become, and that is a fact, and that is what remains in this debate. The representative Helge André Njåstad spoke about the diver. There was some of my background to ask questions to the Council of State. It's not just the diver; it's the whole dive team. It's all the people that are needed to do this in a proper way that we're talking about here. So we have taken this into account in the Roman numerals in paragraph B, and what the Progress Party has in its proposal is, in fact, the relationship we have discussed in depth in the vote and which is part of the Committee's recommendation B. We in the Committee have received a number of e-mails since the vote was taken, including: by the Executive Director of AQS, Ove Løfsnæs, who is very critical of the inclusion of professional diving with dive sailors under the Working Environment Act. But today we have received an e-mail from the trustee of the divers in the same company, Nicolas Fares Hammer, and that company is Norway's largest and most successful service company. Trustees say here: The bill does not threaten jobs or safety on the coast, given that the Executive Director chooses to maintain divisive service boats. It is still possible to continue with the inclusion of Sjømat Norway in an industrial energy tariff for professional divers in the aquaculture industry, which will allow all divisive service boats to compete on equal terms. In addition, there is no point in the proposition that one cannot still work as a professional diver on a service boat under the Working Environment Act. Such information was provided by Abyss AML – i.e. the Working Environment Act – on its diviable service boats in the past, but it was no longer competitive when competitors chose to go under sea. Here we know something about the core of the matter. Here we get a level playing field in terms of working time, employment and safety regulations. Thus, there is an industry that can compete on equal terms and that has been an essential part of the Committee's justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2667	Thank you for the discussion. I just have some general comments. It is true that this is unusual – the Storting does not ask for an explanation, they ask the government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. Asking for an explanation is a little bit different. It has some slightly different implications. It is possible that this is unusual, but the core here is that the government asks the Stortinge to provide a legal basis, so that you can make one of them. regulations and the design of legislation, and it is customary to do so. It's absolutely right that there's a couple of questions that come up because these are employees like p.T. is not subject to the Working Environment Act, but will be. There's something the government obviously has to look at, and have looked at, also issues that come up now in the last turn, including the question whether this has some implications related to ILO conventions. That's the one thing I wanted to say. On the other hand, to address two of the questions that were up, I think I have understood more clearly what the representative Lundtigen refers to. Here, too, this is clearly described in the proposition. It says in the proposition which regulatory requirements apply to the team around. A diver leader, a line holder, a life diver and a diver – there are always at least four – is what the proposition says, and they are then subject to the AML Code as it should be in this case. The representative, Jon Georg Dale, also had a question that could be useful to clarify. Dale mentioned 10 pst. as an example. It's not possible to scale by percent. But it also says in the proposition: ‘In cases where shipowners carry out more incidentally and exceptionally you, typically in the context of the maintenance of their own ships, the Ministry assumes that employees will be subject to maritime regulations.’ The whole arrangement of this legislation is linked to those who have diving as their main activity, their profession, so to speak, not those who perform a dive in a new and nee way, to say it in a slightly popular way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2683	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2700	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2707	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in a very serious matter, namely the issue of the mispractice of the right to reside in the EEA, a matter and a mispractice which has affected many people and which has greatly affected their lives. This has led people to go to prison, have had to repay large amounts of money, have ended up in debt schemes and not least have to live with great shame. This is a matter the committee has spent a lot of time since Stortinget received the first statement from the then state council Anniken Hauglie on November 5, 2019. We know the story well. Following the presentation by Hauglie, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee initiated a thorough work in parallel with the government's setting up its own scrutiny committee, led by Finn Arnesen. The committee presented its investigation, a NOU called the Blind Son, on 4 August last year, and the Stortinget received a statement from the then state councillor Henrik Asheim on 13 October. He was then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. That's the statement we're debating here in the Chamber today. When the Storting in the previous round dealt with the mispractice of the social security regulation, there was a political discussion about how far back in time this scandal actually stretched. Many of us would have liked the review committee to give us a consistent answer, but there the sample has split, where a majority believes that the mispractice can extend back to before 2012, while a minority believes the opposite. The committee emphasises that it is not the sample that determines what is the law in force, but that the task belongs to the courts, and that is, of course, an approach the committee supports. As I said, the Committee has spent a lot of time on this matter, and the reason is that we believe that those who have been hit need answers and that it needs to be cleaned up. The investigation committee assumes that Nav had the primary responsibility for misinterpretation and mispractice. In the statement by the government council Asheim, which Stortinget received, it was stressed that there are also more people who are responsible for the fact that the scandal became a fact. This applies, inter alia, to: Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Public Prosecutor's Office and Social Security. What is demanding for those who are affected is probably just this: that it points to many, but that it is perceived that no one actually takes responsibility, nor politically. That is what is difficult in this case. The selection brings up many issues that have been problematic. It's about weak EEA competence, poor communication and systems that don't talk to each other. It is about weaknesses within Nav, but also a lack of dialogue between Nav, the directorate and the department and with other actors, such as the Social Security Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office. In the Storting setting, there are several majority and minority comments. It's not unnatural. It's an overall committee that's serious, but we're kind of sharing what we're focusing on. I assume that my good colleagues from the other parties in the committee will make their views known. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to stress that things could have been discovered in the past. I have several times gone from this pulpit through the timeline from June 2017 until the department in 2019 realized the mispractice. I'm going to save you the details this time, but it's a timeline from when the Social Security Court issued a number of testimonies in 2017, until the alarm clocks finally go in the department from March to October 2019, alarm bells that ran a little slow at first. In comments from the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and SV, we are of the clear opinion that weak procedures, poor communication and lack of power were reasons why errors were not discovered and taken seriously in the past, with the consequences it has had for those who were affected. In the previous round, we worked a lot on the matter to clarify the most questions and get the most answers. It was a demanding job, and parts of the committee were sometimes very frustrated by that. The investigation committee has had access to more information than the Storting, but the presentation they have, and the conclusions they have drawn, are in line with the findings of the Control and Constitutional Committee when we discussed Hauglies' statement on the matter. However, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have a note and a proposal concerning the government's obligation to provide information to Stortinget. As everyone here knows, there's been a lot of discussion around this. We therefore propose that the government should come back with proposals for instructions and procedures for the ministry's work to ensure that the information obligation of the Stortinget is respected. With that I will address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2732	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2737	The Nav scandal is a sad thing that affects a lot of people. Wrong interpretation of legislation has been going on for many years, and there have been failures in several stages. In November 2019, the government appointed a review committee to investigate how the error could occur, how it could be carried out over such a long period of time, and to assess the handling of the case by the various bodies involved. The Review Committee, led by Professor Finn Arnesen, made its investigation, which was called the Blind Son, on August 4, 2020. In the investigation, the Nav scandal is referred to as a system failure. It is concluded that Nav had the primary responsibility for misinterpretation and mispractice of the residence requirements of the population. But it's not just Nav who's to blame, there's a lot of people who have failed, and a lot of people who have to share the responsibility. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Social Security Court, the Public Prosecutor's Office, lawyers, courts and academia have a significant responsibility in each of their ways. The importance of EEA law for the systems of popular interest has been in the blind zone to almost everyone. There has been insufficient EEA competence and the interpretation of EEA rules has not been a central part of the governance dialogue between the Ministry and Nav. The legal issues in this case are not decided by the Committee of Inquiry. That task lies with the courts. The Court of Justice has asked the EFTA Court for answers to several questions, including: whether the requirement that beneficiaries of sick pay, redundancy benefits and care allowances should be kept in Norway was contrary to EEA law before June 2012. On 25 November 2020, ESA opened formal proceedings against Norway on the implementation of EU Social Security Regulation 883/2004. The very basis for the mispractice is that the Law on People's Rights has not been adapted to the rules deriving from EEA law. The revision of the Social Security Act in 1997 did not take place and the necessary changes and adaptations were not made by the introduction of a new social security regulation in June 2012. This has led to many consequential errors with great consequences for many people. It is worth noting what happened prior to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009. At that time, four benefits were to become one new benefit: redundancy money, what we call the AAP. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare was uncertain about how the new benefit AAP was to be managed against the day-to-day EU Social Security Regulation, 1408/71. They asked for a prep. Particular attention was paid to whether there would be a need to amend Section 11-3, which mentions the requirement to stay. The Ministry did not forward the directorate's clear request for the Stortinget treatment and did not provide a clarification in Ot.prp. No 4 for 2008-2009. In November 2009, Nav also requested formal signals from the Ministry on the introduction of amended rules and progress in the implementation of the new EU social security regulation. The Ministry’s response was that the Directorate should have all the necessary information for a proper, planned and implemented transition to the new Regulation. As I have explained, the contact to the department was not met for the necessary clarifications – it was simply rejected. When the new EU social security regulation came into force in June 2012, it was implemented in a poor way. It was concluded that the new EU regulation would not entail any fundamental or substantive change. Poor pre-work and poor implementation of the new social security regulation have contributed to a small available Norwegian social security legislation. It is not a good regulatory technique, and there was something to the Right also pointed out when the Stortingen dealt with the matter in March 2020. The Ministry’s choice of legislative technique has helped to confuse where it was to inform, and that is part of the explanation of how the social security scandal could happen. Nor in the relevant cases that followed, the accompanying error has been discovered. In the State Council statement to the Stortinget on 13 October 2020, the Council of State described the measures taken to correct the injustice committed against the people who have been convicted on the wrong basis. The Council of State also briefed on the measures taken to ensure that we learn from this, and could prevent something similar from happening again. One of the most important tools for learning and understanding is precisely the Review Committee’s report, the Blind Zone. The main findings of the report are summarised by the Councils of State in three categories: lack of attention and visibility of EEA law for weak EEA competence for weak control and communication; The legal status of the case is still unclear as it is under assessment in ESA and the EFTA Court. The Ministry has set up a legislative committee to review social security legislation against international agreements. Finally, I would like to refer to the Committee's recommendation, which is promoted by an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2773	This may not be the last time we handle this matter. If one day it would be allowed to cross the borders to another EEA country, we do not yet know whether the people's rights of residence in Norway are opposed to EEA legislation. The correctness is unclear. We await the conclusions of the ESA's audit case and the EFTA Court. The Committee of Inquiry has therefore put forward a proposal to ask the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a final clarification of the relationship between the social security laws and the social security regulations. This is the only way the Storting can be sure of what law applies to all those who are waiting for a decision on the matter at Nav, and what law will be applicable in the future to Nav's statements. The Control Committee has dealt with an evaluation by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the selection that has examined Nav's mispractice of its requirement to stop travelling in the EEA area, but its management considers that this is not a mispractice. The law itself contains the error. From the EEA Agreement, signatures were made in 1992 and until today, the Ministry has not discussed the impact of EEA legislation on public health when changes to the laws were submitted to the Stortinget. The ministry has not had a tradition for this, says the selection. Both Nav and others have pointed to challenges with their promise of staying in Norway against the EEA acquis, but the ministry has not seen us in the legislative proposals. I very much appreciate that a joint committee is some of the things that Nav's misinterpretation is not the only explanation of how things could become such a major scandal. The main mistake was made when the EEA Regulation began to apply in 2012. The Ministry did one too bad work and introduced the regulation into a regulation that was difficult to understand in the context of the law. The previous national lawyer said in the committee's hearing that such a legal technique had to be considered more closely. No selection has been selected. It was the Social Security Court that discovered the problem. The investigation has revealed that when Nav realized that the Social Security Court was right, the error was handled with weak routines, poor communication and lack of leadership. When matters came to the department, describe the selection that political priorities had a major impact on the professional evaluations. This is serious when the legal security of individuals is at stake. I mean, the department doesn't take responsibility for handling the cases. The ministry has made this a matter of Nav's mispractice of the legislation, so that the department's faults are not so visible. The ministry has told the investigation committee that it was Nav's responsibility to interpret a code that is confusing to the best lawyers in the country. But Nav's practice and Nav's handling is the department's responsibility. The design of legislation is the responsibility of the Ministry. It is the core tasks of the top management body in the country to present laws to decide in the Storting and control the administration of the etats. I hope the department now takes this responsibility and manages legal certainty with intelligence until matters return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2786	The social security scandal shows some of the worst with Differences Norway. People who have needed help from Nav have been innocently convicted of social security fraud. Many have received large, unjust refunds that have led to serious financial problems. The class case law in this case is quite clear. As the Association of Lawyers said in the first hearing, if it had been business leaders that mispractice had taken place, it would, after all, have been discovered much earlier. The review committee's report, which we are discussing today, is not about anything that changes the SV's conclusion from the end of the year. The most important thing from it is that several murders could have been prevented, but this did not happen because of a lack of action by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. As former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch said at the first hearing: there were a number of occasions when the department could and should have shared what they then knew with the State Attorney's office, which could lead to the case being revealed far, far earlier. But that happened that didn't happen. On the contrary, even a person, Eirik, was sentenced on 16 September 2019, long after the so-called alarm had passed. That is why, at the time, we proposed mistrust of Mr Hauglie, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, and I believe that this is a good thing today. What is so provocative about this matter is that the scandal has hit so many common people so hard, while those at the top who are responsible have no consequences for it. Hauglie withdrew before the Stortinget was able to deal with our proposal, and some criticism by the government did not get a majority at that time. We have not least seen an ever-increasing level of responsibility powdering, even when the Committee of Inquiry's report came. Because when everyone's in charge, who's taking responsibility? On the other hand, SV states that the Minister and the government are responsible for the biggest legal security scandal in Norwegian history after the war. In the Committee of Inquiry's report, there are comments, from the minority in particular, on some new information showing only further the responsibility of Mr Hauglie, who refuses to take the matter to political leadership because it is going to go in the opposite direction to government policy against social security exports, or when Mr Hauglie first gets the case to his table, and then refers to the fact that this may conflict with the points of the government statement against social security exports. Then the government's handling of this matter since it became publicly known has only contributed to even less trust. All the stones should be turned, it was said, but obviously not all. Because during the course of Storting’s treatment, the government has refused access to important documents three times. First, it was the Government Attorney's note from the autumn of 2019, and then the record from the first meeting of the then State Council and then Nav Director from the same harvest, and now, in the consideration of this matter, a report on the government's work on social security exports from 2014. It is a report that was not known before the investigation committee referred to parts of it in its investigation. The SV's main objectives have been justice for the victims all along. We believe that getting the whole and the full truth is exactly part of it. Therefore, it is so frustrating that it has repeatedly been held back important documents that could shed more light on the government's own responsibility. Finally, if the victims of the scandal are to have their justice, the victims must also receive full retribution for the burden they have suffered. The fact that the department argues against this in a letter from earlier this year because they believe that the error is not due to a gross enough negligence on the part of Nav, I believe it is incomprehensible. At least it's a rough enough negligence, and well, it's from the government and the directorate's side to the victims getting full retribution. That's what I meant to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2805	The Nav scandal is the largest collective system failure in Norway in many decades, and it has been going on for decades. A majority of the Committee of Inquiry considers that the system failure may have occurred entirely since 1994. During this period, an aggregate increase has been involved as the chief legislator. Almost all the parties have been in government, and thus we all have a great responsibility for what has happened. There is no question of overestimating the seriousness of this case, in which all three state powers, including magnification, government and legal apparatus, have failed to take into account the primacy of the decisions of EEA law over national law. The implementation of the new Regulation in 2012 was deficient and contributed to the continuation of the scandal. Several times, the State has reviewed the legislation without the mispractice being detected. The Nav scandal is a gross infringement on the part of the system, from the community to individuals. This has resulted in individuals being unjustly sentenced to prison, deprived of their freedom and on a false basis received payment claims and payment notes attached. The review report shows that we need better EEA competence at all levels of administration, academic environments, courts and lawyers. It is clear from the sample report that they see the matter as a system failure, a blind zone. The committee concluded that Nav had the primary responsibility for misinterpretation and mispractice of the residence requirements of the public interest in the light of the EEA Agreement and the Social Security Regulation. At the same time, the sample stressed that the Ministry of Labour, Social Security, Public Prosecutor’s Office, lawyers, courts and academia have also, in each way, had a significant responsibility. What makes the most impression in the review report is the description of the people concerned’s meeting with Nav and the judicial system. They received incomplete information and different information from different Nav offices that they were in contact with. Some people wanted to get in touch with their own Nav office. It's a story about a system that has put the system in front of people. It is good that the government takes responsibility and takes this matter seriously. Now we also have to look forward and make sure that something like this scandal never happens again. It is important that the three main findings of the review report be addressed: lack of awareness of the visibility of EEA law, weak EEA competence and poor governance of communications between the establishment and the ministry. As I said earlier, we need to strengthen EEA competence at all stages, review legislation and have a clean legal framework. The work of the academia in the legal faculties to integrate EEA law into all disciplines is also important. It is absolutely essential that people who for a shorter or longer period depend on Nav's support should have the same freedom and benefits of the European Community as everyone else. Social security recipients shall have the same right to cross national borders as long as they do so and are required to return to work or be prepared for disability. It is absolutely essential that we increase, not restrict the freedom of people. Everyone has the right to mobility, and everyone is different. Nevertheless, everyone should have equal opportunities to participate and move freely in society, and it should not play a role in getting social benefits from the hub or pay from an employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2826	The Nav scandal is among the worst attacks on people's legal security since the war. The one responsible for everything, the Council of State at the time, Anniken Hauglie, told from this pulpit at the time that all stones should be turned. But after reading the report of the sample appointed by the government, and after following Government Council No. 3 in the series explaining the matter in Stortinget, and also having followed the hearing on the matter and the examination of it by the Control Committee, it is only clear that all the stones have not been turned around in this case, and so far no one has been held responsible for the State's murder of at least 80 people, and that several thousand have received illegal claims from the State for repayment. The reality is that those who have had serious consequences for so far are only those who are the victims of this scandal, who have been convicted in court, who have been sentenced to prison and have been forced to pay back money to secure them when they fell out of work once in the future. Redly promoted in November 2019 mistrust proposal against the then state council Anniken Hauglie. Unfortunately, the proposal only got Red's voice, and the government was going to replace Hauglie before the matter itself was discussed in the Control Committee in the new year 2020. That no one responsible has been held responsible, we believe is a shame. Liability powdering is complete, and it's not just Red that means. It also means those who represent the Nav victims, and also several of the country's distinguished law experts and researchers. Yes, even members of the government's review committee agree. The committee was given both a brief and a brief mandate to get to the bottom of the matter. To the class struggle before Christmas, the leader of the selection, Finn Arnesen, said, "If you're going to turn each stone, we would need much more time, and the selection would probably be put together differently." And when asked by the journalist about the Blindsone report, it gives the whole answer to the scandal, Arnesen says that ‘it is not, and it was not in the mandate that it should be.’ So it was a narrow mandate, and it was very short time they got on in the sample, only six months. And where the review report on some points has extensive dissensions, the majority consider that they have not been able to go through them in detail, but that they have lacked time. Therefore, Red believes that the Storting must now take responsibility and set down an independent investigation commission. It is an instrument The Storting should be restrained from using. It's done a few times before. But it is in situations like the one we are now in that a grand-appointed investigation committee should be set up to ensure distance and independence from the government and departments, and to ensure the search for truth that can provide the basis for assessing responsibilities, as it says in the report from the Stortingen's own selection to evaluate the control function of the Stortingen, which we have received from a unanimous committee. One thing is the powdering of responsibilities. Another and at least equally important thing is that we have to make sure that this case leads to more extensive changes than that of employing some more EEA lawyers in Nav. The essence of the matter is that we have a legal system that, on the one hand, as we see in today's media essays, takes very lightly on white-collar crime, that billionaires who cheat away from wealth abroad get amnesty, while those who are sick, those who are unemployed, unemployed people who are injured to break a rule, yes, they can be thrown into prison and deprived of all dignity and opportunity for a better life in the future. Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt has said that legal security is the most socially distorted good in our society. This class jacket we have to take a settlement with, and that's this case a golden occasion that we're doing. I therefore take up the Red's proposal to set up an independent investigation committee and ask the Stortinget to support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2845	The representative Bears Moxnes took up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2850	Six months have passed since the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs called for a press conference in which it was briefed that the seat of labour and welfare had been mispracticing the demands of the people's rights of residence. This applies to persons who had received sickness benefits, care allowances and redundancy benefits while staying in other EEA countries. The error had resulted in people getting incorrect repayment claims, some had been reported, and some had sunk in prison. This has been all along, and has been seen by the government, as a very serious matter. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has done a thorough job in this matter. The Government has provided information and answered the questions raised by the Committee. The matter has also been addressed through an external investigation and two consultation rounds within the Committee. For the government it has been important in this matter to take care of the people involved, take responsibility and clean up and not least learn from the matter. An overall committee recommends that the Storting should ask the government to come back with a clarification of the relationship between the provisions of the Swedish Social Security Act and the Social Security Regulation, which will form the basis for handling matters before 2012. And of course, we're going to follow that up. The consequences of the social security regulation in force before 1 June 2012 will be clarified by the EFTA Court and the proceedings of the Supreme Court on the specific case. I want to assure the Storting that the government will of course base the legal clarification on issues in the Labour and Welfare Act that apply before 2012. Follow-up to criminal proceedings, both before and after 2012, is outside the government’s remit. However, I believe that the courts and the prosecution authority will follow the criminal cases in an appropriate manner when the case has been dealt with by the Supreme Court. The legal clarification of the Supreme Court will also be able to clarify what requirements Norway can in the future lay down for the right to receive sickness benefits, care allowances and redundancy benefits while residing in other EEA countries. For the sake of order, I would remind you that, for persons covered by the Social Security Regulation, stays in other EEA countries are assimilated to stays in Norway until further notice. The government will also come back to this issue in the follow-up to the legislative committee set up to assess how Norway’s international obligations can be clarified in social security legislation. A minority in the Committee of Inquiry considers that in this case there has been a disclaimer from the Department. I disagree with that. Asheim State Council underlined this in committee hearing in November, and I repeat: the fact that the Committee of Inquiry pointed out that there are many who are responsible for the error that has occurred does not mean that responsibility is being powdered. The political responsibility lies with me now, and it lies with the government, and we shall continue to clean up and learn from the errors that have occurred in this matter. As I said earlier from this pulpit, the matter has revealed vulnerabilities in our EEA work. This applies both to the methods we use to implement EEA rules nationally, to the way we work in the implementation process, and to how we follow the practice of legislation. This concerns, among other things: to strengthen the competence to identify problem areas, the competence of the EEA law and the legal competence at all stages – because it is important and has consequences. A number of improvement measures have been implemented and efforts to improve EEA work continue. The Ministry shall mention the importance of EEA law in propositions, where appropriate, and the employment and welfare seat shall ensure that the link between national social security contributions and the social security regulation is clearly stated in the etate circular. Among the measures we have put in place, I have previously highlighted the legislative committee which will make proposals to make the law easier to understand and practice. I also believe that the law should make more clear to EEA law leaders than it does today. The follow-up of those affected by the mispractice has been a first priority. Nav cleans up matters for the period after 1 June 2012. All cases of incorrect decisions on health and care benefits have been dealt with successfully. This concerns both recovery decisions, curtailment decisions and refusal decisions or cessation of benefits. A few people have not completed their proceedings relating to previous unlawful decisions. The cases are being treated, and Nav is having dialogue with these people. The State of Employment and Welfare estimates that they will complete the proceedings relating to the period after 1 June 2012 related to the suspension, rejection or curtailment of redundancy payments during the summer. A separate arrangement has also been established for these claims, which have been added to a separate device disconnected from Nav. It is for the courts to determine the applicable law. As mentioned above, the decision of the Supreme Court will be important, and it is right for us also to await it. As you know, the site attorney has put all the relevant criminal cases to rest. Let me conclude by saying that this matter will still have very high priority in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2898	Thanks to the Council of State for the article. He was involved in liability powdering, for several of those who have had posts today have mentioned it with responsibility powdering. I feel, when you say it, that there are so many actors who have been involved, and in the sample, it's stressed that Nav might be one of the main actors. Does the Council share the view that Nav has a special responsibility? And when the Council of State disagrees with the fact that there has been a discharge, does the Council of State believe that the government took a very great responsibility during the period when the matter began to roll, when the alarm bells began to ring quite weakly, i.e. between March 2019 and October 2019? For it is as the representative of the Supreme Court said that people were judged and punished in that period. Does the Council of State believe that the government took sufficient responsibility in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2903	Let me first say what has been repeated several times from the very first moment, from the then state councilman Anniken Hauglie, namely, that this is where mistakes have been made, also by the ministry. It also means that the answer to the question ‘Could, and of course should, this have been discovered before?’ is yes. There were points where the ministry could and should have asked more questions, even during this government's period. I understand that people can get the impression of what they call liability powdering, when they say that there are many involved here, but let's ask a hypothetical question: if the time when the government council responsible, Annikan Hauglie, had gone off a week later, would the responsibility then be gone? No, the political responsibility lies with the Council of State, and that is an incredibly important point, because it is not such that the State or the Department can discharge its political responsibility. The political responsibility is now that I have, as the responsible State Council in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2910	I am very pleased with that answer, because it is clear that it has a responsibility at any time. What I want to challenge the Council of States a little bit is whether he can reflect a little on the mistakes that were made, because it has been the great frustration of those who were hit, that it took so long from people in Nav to notice and the sentencing came to the Court of Social Security, until something actually started to happen. Does the Council of State feel that sufficient action has been taken in the department that could have prevented this, that now this kind of thing would not happen? Does the Council of State feel that he has taken sufficient action within his own department?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2923	What I can say, and what is really the most important message, is that the follow-up to this case is not finished. But, of course, we have already taken action both on the competence of the department and on how we follow up Nav. Nav has taken a number of important steps internally, not least to ensure that they have sufficient communication when errors are detected or suspected, that they are quickly lifted. It is also important to say that, as I also said in my statement, the ministry has said very clearly and clearly that the way in which we discuss, assess and present future issues of EEA law should be different. We have also set up a legal committee to look at how this should be clarified in the law we have. Because that's not the way some people might think that the EEA does not apply in Norwegian law. No, it's done, and that's exactly what's the whole point, but it may not have been clear enough that the EEA is overstepping Norwegian law in cases where there have been contradictions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2930	In the hearing of the Committee, the Council of State said that the Stortinget should be provided with the necessary information and that the relationship between the law of the people and the law of the EEA must be more widely referred to in the bill. What changes to the procedures of the Department do the Council of State see to it in order to ensure the disclosure obligations of the Grand Duchy in all respects? And is it part of the challenge that a non-sympathetic person should comply with EEA law, but that it is clarified that EEA law should lead, i.e. that one should have had it so that the laws were clear in line with EEA law when a new law was enacted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2935	This is one of the things that the review committee spends a lot of time saying a lot of wisdom on. In concrete terms, this means, among other things. that we need, and have already started, to strengthen EEA competence in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but we also have clearer links to external academic resources. It is enough, as the Committee of Inquiry also points out, that the link between the Norwegian area of expertise and EU law – or what we are covered by the EEA Agreement – has also been too weak in parts of the academy. We have just put down a legal selection to look at issues related to how EEA law is expressed in Norwegian law, but it has also been said clearly that this should have been more clearly discussed in some of the cases before Stortinget in the past. An important argument for all of this is that EU law is also dynamic, i.e. that it is not pasted into stone once and for all, but that there will be changes, including: based on judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2944	What changes have been made in Nav to follow up the legal decisions of the Social Security Court better, so that Nav is able to clearly distinguish between when the decisions relate to legal issues and when they relate to factual assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2949	That's an important question. The time when it could and should have been caught earlier was when the Social Security Court began to feel that Nav's interpretation of Section 21 was problematic, in 2017, and then it took a time before they were authoritative, or before there was a clear precedent in the Social Security Court. We have asked both the Nav and the Social Security Court to improve communication between themselves. Nav has also rigged differently and better now to catch up with the Social Security Court. I know that the Social Security Court is also concerned that they are even clearer and more clearly assessing whether they, for example, are doing so. must be fully correct, i.e. have more judges on matters that may be prejudicial. All of this is important to do within a system that has a clearer understanding and competence of EU law and EEA law and as it evolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2954	All the stones should be snuffed, then Minister of Labour Annicken Hauglie said – but obviously not all the stones. For the third time, the government has refused to provide the Stortinget with access to a document in this case, and this time there is a 2014 report, written by the government working group on social security exports. The reasons given by the government: it is not practice to provide so-called internal documents. But through the 20th century, they have been given, among other things. internal investigations in serious matters for Stortinget. The 1989 trial case and the 1998 banking crisis case are among the many examples. Is it such that the government in the social security scandal chooses to intensify practices, unless transparency and transparency, and why so, if so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2963	The answer to that is no. The government goes on the exact same line that previous governments have also gone on. This means that the review committee has been given full access, such as: The corona review committee now has full access, including to government notes — as the replicant is probably aware that they are the property of the Prime Minister and the Council of State — while reserving the right to have internal proceedings in the ministry. That is because it is the government's policy that the Council of State responds to. The fact that we have an office that can work and that can work out different solutions without fear that it will suddenly be public documentation is a crucial part of having a functioning government and management system. We have provided all relevant documentation. Moreover, it is not precise that a report from a meeting with the Nav Director has not been submitted. It was a case-by-case, internal meeting document, not a record, which was not submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2968	But it is wrong, because we see from previous practice that governments have given a number of documents of the type that Stortinget has requested in these two matters we have dealt with, for example. internal investigations. There have been cases of serious failures with major consequences for individuals or for the state. It is also important to say that there are no government notes that the control committee is asking for – no, that is, among other things. investigations. But to another question, some of the justice that the victims deserve is also full retribution for the burden they've been through. Nevertheless, the Department argues against giving the victims full support in a letter to ESA from January. Does the Council of State really think that the error is not due to gross negligence, either from the Department or the Nav Directorate, to give full retribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2975	It is important to distinguish between what is the replacement arrangements and what is the uplifting arrangements. It's like we've made our own compensation arrangements for this group. We have created our own complaint unit to handle complaints about compensation for financial losses. We have set up a free legal aid system to help you get legal help on this – a series of such follow-ups. In the case of upliftment, i.e. almost a substitute for torture and pangs, we have a trail that means that those who have been wrongly convicted, if then the Supreme Court and the judiciary would come to that conclusion, will also have an opportunity to be subject to the rules of upliftment, i.e. compensation for torture and pangs. It is, I believe, a correct answer to the problem and the major, serious matter that the EEA/Nav case has been and is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e2980	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3001	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3008	This is the seventh communication on quality and patient safety, and when you have been with and treated it sometimes, we can conclude that most improvement points are recognisable from year to year. This shows that work on quality and patient safety is laborious and can take many years from risk areas to be identified until improvements are implemented. I would like to stress that the message we are handling today takes care of the business in 2019, but that it is presented at a time when we are in the middle of a pandemic. Therefore, the message also bears the hallmark of the Corona situation. Several of the participants in the Committee’s consultation also addressed this in their input. Now we have been in pandemic management for over a year, and we have seen the importance of good preparedness for both quality and patient safety. Opposing batches point to the vulnerability of the situation a year ago related to access to infectious equipment. A few weeks ago, we saw examples of health professionals in individual departments using social media to access infectious agents from local entrepreneurs. Norway has a good health service when we compare ourselves with other countries. However, it is worth noting that we have a potential for improvement in general medical services, and that there are several parameters in the international measurements that support the fact that we have a fixed crisis in Norway. Opposition batches call for more comprehensive measures to stabilise and further develop the fixed medical system. The labour pressure on the individual staff is still too high, and there is still a great need to recruit more doctors for the service. Decision-makers will also have an important role to play in coronary vaccination. Determined Kari Løvendahl Mogstad wrote the following on Facebook yesterday, and I quote an excerpt from the text: «Sunday has been spent for me and my husband in the medical office. There are probably not many who are aware of how to end up in "real" vaccine queues when you are about to pick out those who are in so-called risk groups." She also wrote: «While I have been sitting and looking over lists, criteria, codes and tried to get into this, it has really struck me how unique the system is, even now in the pandemic management, when this work is to be done. Because it has to be done! Some people have to have an overview of whether "Ola Olsen" or "Kari Pedersen" has a diagnosis that meets the criterion of first being in line when priority is given to risk groups between 18 and 64." And on the other hand, “We have been sitting today and both have come to patients who did not fit into the codes that we were sent from the authorities, but to whom we knew the state of health, and who because of it, get the vaccine they are right for and need soon. This can't replace a dropin' doctor, a home doctor, or any other private person. But unfortunately, there is a tendency that more and more people embrace the fast solutions, without realizing that it is not sustainable the day you really need help, and someone who sees the whole picture." The scheme is a support bar – or ground wall, if you like – in the Norwegian healthcare system. That is why we must save it, because it is so important both in ordinary operations and in times of crisis. This message covers a number of areas. I don't have time to go into everyone, but I want to bring forward an important theme where we can show good results, but also lack of goal achievement, namely antibiotic use. National action plan on antibiotic resistance in healthcare has set the objective of reducing the use of antibiotics by 30 pst by the end of 2020, compared to 2012. In the general medical service, we find the best results, and in the municipality of Oslo, they have already achieved the goal, while in the case of hospitals, there is still a long way to go. In hospitals, it is particularly important to reduce the use of broad spectrum antibiotics in order to avoid the resistance and development of hospital infections, which pose a threat to the most vulnerable patients. Finally, I would like to say something about intensive capacity. This is also an area where the last year has shown a vulnerability to the pandemic. When we were struggling with the swine flu in 2009, we had 290 full intensive sites. One of the learning points at the time was that its intensive capacity and flexibility had to improve. When the corona pandemic hit us, we had 289 full intensive sites. This time we can't make the same mistake when we're evaluating the pandemic. Now a real boost is needed for the intensive capacity to be better equipped for the next crisis. With that, I present the setting and take up the suggestions that the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3047	The representative, Tuva Moflag, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3052	The health situation in Norway is good. There are high life expectancy, low mortality after heart attack and stroke and good five years of survival after cancer. The communication on quality and patient safety is primarily an overview of areas where we have challenges and need to improve, thus not giving an overall picture of the quality of healthcare. We believe that health and care services in Norway are of good quality and are good, even when compared with other countries. The corona situation affects health and care services in many different ways. The workload has become very high for parts of the service, and at the same time we see a rotation of patient flows. Some diseases have decreased. Partial shutdown and reduced capacity in healthcare services affect in particular the most vulnerable patient and user groups. Unfortunately, users with complex needs are extra exposed. The pandemic has been particularly demanding for those responsible for testing and treating patients with covid-19. Infectious diseases affect health and care services, but they also show great ability to change. When the service is put under such pressure, it is particularly important to pay attention to patient safety. Therefore, it is important that we deal with this message this year as well. It is natural to focus attention on preparedness, supply and intensive capacity. We believe that the coronary outbreak has shown the need for the emergency storage of medical disposable devices and medicinal products. We need to learn from the experience of the pandemic and provide increased intensive capacity, more protective equipment and medicinal products in stock. Since March 2020, the Government has built up national preparedness stocks of infectious disease equipment and medicinal products for both primary and specialist health services, which continue to exist in 2021. This is a supplement to the warehouses of municipalities and hospitals. In parallel with the cleaning work, a permanent stand-by is also being carried out. There is a need to stabilise and further develop the fixed medical system. Therefore, in spring 2020, the government launched the GMP as a stepping-up plan in the field. In the case of the need for more full-time jobs, there is a work being carried out by the Council of State, among other things. has required regional health enterprises to work through business meetings to develop a full-time culture, to reduce the use of part-time work and to place as much as possible in permanent full-time jobs. There has been a positive trend over time in this area. At the same time, this is a long-term work. The pandemic has obvious consequences for quality and patient safety. Therefore, we need to keep an eye on the situation for both health professionals and patients. The follow-up of the pandemic is already under way. We need to keep the Storting informed about the situation, and I am pleased that the other parties agree that it is important to put quality and patient safety on the agenda even in a demanding health care situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3071	It is an important political responsibility to provide a safe health service with high confidence in the population. Patient safety is about system work. Serious events may occur in spite of the good competence of each health worker. In hospitals, there is a great responsibility for health professionals’ directors and directors to put patient safety on the agenda. The centre also calls for a more political focus on quality and patient safety in the healthcare service. We would like to welcome these annual messages, but we are also some of the criticisms that have emerged in the hearings that the messages appear to be outrageous about facts without looking at reasons, and that quality improvement measures are largely absent. In a three-minute post, it's impossible to mention everything, but I want to raise the concerns of patients and users for what they call the secret services in the healthcare system, which is the lack of rehabilitation. Then I will raise the need to ensure relatives better justice and support, which also the patient and user environment presents. They also do so about the right to free dental care for the elderly and other groups, which is not well known and is not useful. Furthermore, I would like to raise the State Health Authority, which addresses the risk of so-called satellite patients, i.e. patients placed in departments other than those to which they belong, without a doubt a consequence of the lack of capacity in Norwegian hospitals, which is a risk of quality. Psychiatric health protection and intoxication are also going back as an area of mass complaints and warnings. A long wait for the BUP will prevent many children and young people from getting the help they need. Under the pandemic, this is getting worse. I would also like to refer to Health atlas, which is mentioned, as demonstrated by wide variations in the use of the specialist services in maternity, which give reason to raise questions about whether the supply of mothers and children in maternity is good enough. Antibiotic use is also an area that is mentioned and that we still have to pay great attention to. In Norwegian hospitals, we are far from achieving the goal of reducing antibiotic use by 20 pst. from 2012-level. Another recurring challenge is the lack in the firm-legislative service, which the case-speaker had to face. There are major problems with both recruitment failure and temporary work, and we believe that the government has allowed this crisis in the fixed medical system and medical care to go too far before they came up with measures. The Medical Association notes in its call that trust-based guidance is an important ingredient in getting a culture of openness in health services. I would also like to stress that. I think I have to draw myself a new post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3094	Norway is one of the worst countries, according to OECD quality indicators for mental health protection and influenza vaccines for those over 65 years of age. Vaccines are one of the best solutions for all diseases. It's bad to be sick, and it's much cheaper to vaccinate than to treat diseases. A regular seasonal flu provides about 5,000 hospitalisations a year and costs an average of 900 lives — and that is worse for the elderly. Therefore, SV has proposed a differentiated influenza vaccination programme with high-dose influenza vaccines. For example, Germany, France, Denmark and Sweden have purchased this — but not rich Norway. Only SV has promoted this proposal in another case. We have resources and knowledge, and I expect the other parties who have read this message to change the policy and come and support the SV's proposals. Then we can save more older people. SV has said for many years that we have a mental health crisis. Well, under the pandemic, it's even worse. It is very clear in the OECD quality indicators that this is not good enough. Right try to say that government policy is good for mental health. I am uncertain whether the Right has read the report, or has chosen to forget it. But that's not good enough. We need more places, user-controlled beds, better and more mental health care where people live, without a reference, and more multidisciplinary follow-up. It prioritises SV instead of tax cuts for the rich, as the right parties have done. The Patient and User Ombudsman has said it so correctly about rehabilitation: ‘The Secret Services’. Many patients say that they only got help as a result of their own initiative. I'm one of those people in this group. SV wants health care for the many, not for the few. That is why, in another case, we have put forward proposals for a review of today's patient rights, in order that there may be real rights, not just paper rights, as many get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3107	It has been mentioned that as a barometer on the state of Health-Norway, the annual quality and patient safety notification is not particularly appropriate. Rather, it provides a description of improvement points, listed by a number of competent professional communities. We're going to listen to these with the will to change in view. On the left, we note in particular the comments of the patient and user representatives and the Health Inspectorate on patients with mental and drug problems. It points to, among others: on the need for a greater overall level of treatment provision, where overall life and somatic health needs to be more involved than is usual today. Ombudsmen also had mental health work in the municipalities as a common response area in 2019. That's good. Nor do we escape the work of the Health and Welfare Committee on the follow-up to drug reform. It is said from some parties that in this reform there is insufficient attention to treatment arrangements or prevention. In this context, I need to stress that for the Left, much of our work on the follow-up to the reform will focus on prevention and, in particular, on improving the treatment system, on monitoring the arrangements that work, so that the money that must follow in the wake of the reform is spent in the most sensible way. Thus, overall treatment provision is being updated. During an observer's stay at a drugstore last year, I was made aware of a relationship I did not know in advance. Several of the patients, where a large majority had mental diagnosis in addition to drug problems, were told that they had experienced patients lying to themselves a drug challenge in order to receive long-term treatment for mental trauma. This brings me to the idea of an area that we need to have a more focused look at in time — the number of long-term places in mental health protection. This will be a topic under the Health Chapter of our party program at the Spring Conference of the Left. I agree, of course, that our focus on ACT and FACT teams is a right political commitment, but we need to be able to cost ourselves a little bit more to see to what extent we should find a better balance between outpatient and community health services and the number of long-term mortgages in specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3120	Health and care services in Norway are of good quality. The annual Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboards are important to focus attention on areas where we need to improve. We also ensure that the Storting is regularly briefed on these areas and is given the opportunity to discuss them. This is the seventh quality message in a row, and it is presented and processed at a time when we are still affected by the coronary apathy. The Communication addresses quality and patient safety status in 2019. There we have also included a brief description of how the coronary situation has affected quality and patient safety so far. The pandemic has had a number of consequences for healthcare. It has imposed exceptional requirements on health professionals responsible for the testing and treatment of patients with covid-19, as well as for the protection of good infectious diseases. Health and care services have demonstrated a high level of ability to convert while changing work tasks and heavy workloads have called for increased attention to patient safety. Temporary shutdown and reduced capacity in healthcare services have had negative ring-effects, especially for vulnerable patients and user groups. Users with complex needs are extra exposed. The pandemic has had consequences for quality and patient safety. How and to what extent it is important both to follow and not least to evaluate in the future. The State Investigation Commission on Health and Welfare, Ukom, is a source of this annual notification for the first time. In the start-up year 2019, the Commission dealt with four cases and delivered three reports in 2020. The studies shall point to causality and improvement points which may contribute to the prevention of new events. The patient and user representatives, the Health Inspectorate, Norwegian patient compensation, Health atlas and national and international quality indicators are other important sources that also provide knowledge of where improvement is needed. These sources are also relevant to the follow-up of management and quality improvement regulations by managers and provide learning across health regions and service levels. We have a good health service. We will continue to do that through further work on developing the patient's healthcare. Transparency, learning, systematic improvement and coordinated action are addressed as key objectives of this Communication. This year’s attitude demonstrates that the Health and Welfare Committee is united in the view that it is still correct and important to put quality and patient safety regularly and high on the agenda, including in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3133	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3138	In September last year, the WHO issued a recommendation that women should bring with them an escort on their own initiative in connection with birth, or ‘during labour and childbirth’, as it says in English. I understand that as if the woman is going to have a partner with her not only during the very birth, but also in the front phase. This had to be done before better regulation is implemented in Norway for birthers and their partners, who have had more limited rules up to now, because they are only in active births with partners. Does the Council of State think that our practice has been in line with WHO recommendations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3144	I expect the representative to think about the practice under the pandemic and not the general practice in Norway. While it is clear that the World Health Organisation is making a standard for a normal situation, the World Health Organisation is also concerned with protecting both health care staff and the capacity of health services against infection. This means that in such situations there will be other limitations, naturally enough, even if the goal is also under the pandemic as much presence as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3149	Then I was unclear. The WHO made this recommendation last September and was quite clear that this would also apply under a pandemic, when related to both ‘labour and childbirth’. In this way, the Council of State would like to get back to it in its answer. But I also had another question, which goes on the follow-up after birth, where numbers from the Earthmother's League now show that far fewer families than usual have been visited by midwife or health sister after birth. What does the Council of State think about the follow-up of newly-baked families, after they may have had a somewhat difficult birth experience because of the pandemic initially? Among other things, we see: birth depression has increased sharply during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3158	Yes, there are some of the consequences of the pandemic we have to learn more from and look at, but I perceive that these conditions are also linked to the protection of the health care staff and the capacity of health care and reducing the risk of infection. With regard to the possibility of post-natal follow-up, it has improved significantly in recent years through a rather strong commitment to the number of midwives in the municipalities, and this at a time when the number of births unfortunately declines, so it should provide a basis for even closer follow-up of the natives in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3165	This is a very comprehensive message, and we can actually talk about a lot of different things, but this is mainly about the systematic patient safety work in healthcare. I am concerned about something that the Medical Association recorded in the hearing, that after the notification scheme was closed in 2018, information about bad events and minor damage is no longer available across the services. My question is whether the Council of State sees the problem, that it prevents good learning when one cannot learn from each other's mistakes and have such information readily available. Will the Council of State look at the scheme, so that one can learn from mistakes across health care agencies and health institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3172	I think we have extensive information about the kind of events and data associated with this. Not least this message shows, which in many ways summarizes much of the information available. The reporting system resulted in some knowledge summaries with which we had experience with very little use by the services. In addition, the various notification and alert mechanisms made it more unclear what was going on, what was to be followed up, and what was not to be followed up. So I'm probably still at the point where the resolution that was made at the time by the national reporting system was correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3177	I didn't ask you if you want to re-establish the notification system we had. I asked if the Council of State believes that today's situation is good enough when we get messages from the Medical Association that the systems to report and to learn across are not good enough and they say correctly that that kind of information is no longer available across the services. Then my question about whether the state council thinks it should be this way, or whether he sees the need to look at how to make such a reporting system work better than at least those who use this system, informs us that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3184	I do not understand that the main challenge in the Norwegian healthcare system today is that one does not have enough information about that type of defect, or that one does not have enough quality. The main challenge in today’s healthcare is that the information that already exists is too little used, and there is also the background to the regulation on quality and management, which obliges managers at each level to use the information that is available. That's probably what I'm experiencing as the main challenge – not that it's not information, but that someone is using the information too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3189	Now is the time to buy influenza vaccines for the autumn. According to OECD quality indicators, Norway is one of the worst in the case of influenza vaccines for those over 65 years of age. We have another system that can help those who want a vaccine, a high-dose vaccine that is much better, much stronger, and we know that for example. Germany, France, Denmark and Sweden have purchased this for the elderly, as they know that fewer will die from influenza. But Norway has not bought this vaccine. As I said, now is the time to buy influenza vaccines. Will the government, in cooperation with the FHI and the Health Directorate, buy these strong doses of influenza so that we can save more elderly people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3196	Norway also purchases stronger influenza vaccines, if we are to use that term, and use them on target populations. So we have a combination of the regular influenza vaccine and an intensified influenza vaccine. It was also purchased extra from the flu season that we are now on our way out, and it was used not least on the hospitals. The FHI also plans for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3206	We have a crew crisis in the country. Health enterprises face major challenges in recruiting and maintaining nurses, health professionals, midwives and specialist nurses. They are the basis for the entire healthcare system. We can build fine construction and buy expensive medicines, but without good people, we have nothing. The National Audit Office points out that health businesses do not have a full-time culture and lose important health professionals such as nurses, midwives and specialist nurses. Two out of three of them work part-time. In 2035, with today's policy, we will lack 28 000 nurses and 18 000 health professionals. In the municipalities, we have seen that many of those who work and want to have full and permanent jobs in hospital homes have not received it – even under the pandemic. That's why they've had to move to different hospitals, which of course have increased the infection. We need a new government, a red and green government, not a center government – a hint, the Labour Party and the Center Party. Everyone must be offered full and regular jobs. It will provide better quality for patients and better patient safety, and it is good for those who work. The last case is intensive care. I live in Follo, and then Ahus is my hospital. They had to send patients away, since they had no room. The number of intensities in Norway is lower than in countries with which it is natural to compare us. The emergency plan with which the government has commended itself is to be able to get 1,200 intensive beds. The plan has been ridiculed in the professional community. We're worse than the other countries. We're in a pandemic. I don't understand why the government hasn't given priority to more intensification sites. For this reason, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, SV has made proposals – again – in several places. I hope the right parties will support this, but I'm not so naive. They've spent over 25 billion. kr to tax cuts, which have normally gone to the rich. SV would like to spend this money on a better health care system for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3222	I just want to underline what I finished my first post with, and that's this with a culture of openness in the health care system as a means of continuous learning and improvement, which the nurses' union is very clear on in their hearing. And to what we had in the line-up: The Medical Association is in play to us clearly that after the reporting system has been shut down, information about bad events and less damage is no longer available across the services. I think that it is very important to follow up when it is experienced as it is out there, and therefore we are also making a proposal today to sort out and propose a low-threshold, non-punitive reporting system throughout the healthcare system for the purpose of learning across borders, including of near-events. We also have a proposal for intensive capacity. So far, the government has been inconclusive as to whether they actually think there is a need for increased intensive capacity in Norway. They're going to figure this out. We have a proposal that they now have to come forward with a plan to increase intensive capacity in Norway, and that this may be related to the revised state budget. We're missing the Progress Party to get multiples, but they're not there in the debate, so maybe there's not so much hope that we get multiples. It's at least voting tomorrow, so we can hope that it can come, because it's a very important proposal. So a little response to the Left, which was in the context of the drug reform, once again: we are not saying that this does not contain anything about treatment and prevention; it is in the reform of the Left's government, under Chapter 15, about economic consequences. It says: ‘The Ministry’s proposal does not imply the creation of new forms of services, either in the municipality or in the specialist health service. Nor are new rights to services for those with drug problems or drug abuse who are not already subject to current legislation and who are covered by existing forms of funding.’ This is the government's message, and that's what we have to deal with in Stortingen and act out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3238	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3257	The background to this interpellation is the wish that Norway should ensure that paperless victims for trafficking in human beings are entitled to the necessary health care. So my question is: will the government consider proposing the necessary changes to the law or regulation to ensure that this group is entitled to the necessary health care? The group I'm raising today is foreign nationals who have been in Norway for a short or long time without a legal stay or without ID papers, i.e. paperless. Several of these are, in addition, victims of trafficking in human beings. This is a group that may have a particular need for health care, especially as regards the health consequences of prostitution or other abuses. The group is called paperless victims for trafficking in human beings, but behind this term it hides real people. They're vulnerable, and they're very vulnerable. Trafficking in human beings can be seen as the slave trade of our time. Hundreds of thousands of women travel to Western Europe for prostitution every year, and several of these are believed to be children. Criminal networks that organise trafficking in human beings for use in prostitution have also established themselves in Norway. Victims who are exposed to trafficking are vulnerable, not least given that it is often problematic to return to their country of origin, where trafficking in human beings occurred. Victims also often have complex health problems and a high need for healthcare both acutely and over time. Today, everyone in Norway has the right to immediate health care and other health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait, but in order to be entitled to the necessary health care, one must have legal residence and in addition either reside in Norway, a member of the public health system or be subject to reciprocity agreements with other countries. If you don't, you have to pay. It goes without saying that for a paperless migrant, it is almost impossible to pay the cost of health care. This fact, in addition to the fear of being discovered and reported to the police, means that many cannot or dare to seek help. In addition, what is considered to be acute is currently practised differently from a doctor to a doctor, and it can therefore be accidental who is being helped through the primary healthcare system. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party believes that health problems caused by the fact that people are victims of human trafficking must come into a special position. This is about victims of criminal acts. Norway, as part of the international community and as a legal state, has a responsibility to prevent such cynical exploitation of people. I believe that where society fails to prevent this, society must also, to some extent, be responsible for remedying the consequences of exploitation for the victims. Norway has committed itself internationally, through several conventions, both to seek to prevent the occurrence and to prosecute the perpetrators, but also to protect and assist the victims. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is important that Norwegian authorities allow human considerations to weigh heavily in the treatment of those who remain as paperless in Norway over a long period of time. At the same time, today's practice creates both human suffering for the individual and great cost to society. The Christian People's Party has therefore repeatedly called for regulatory adjustments in this area, and now we are doing it again. We believe that there is evidence to suggest that paperless victims of human trafficking are in a special position, and we are putting this up against the right to necessary health care. Since the first action plan against trafficking in human beings was drawn up by the Bondevik Government in 2003, the Norwegian authorities have continuously assessed and adjusted the measures taken to counter trafficking in human beings and to assist its victims. But the unsolved problems are still great. The extent of human trafficking is increasing, and few of the victims get the help they need. Paperless victims of trafficking may live the hardest lives in Norway, without the right to work, schooling, health care and economic well-being. We have to do more than what we do today. Some would be tempted to say that the consequences of providing health care to the undocumented will be that Norway becomes too attractive a country. But no country is served by an unregistered population. We need to take action to counteract this development. Even so, we have to recognize that this group actually exists. This group will not be reduced by making life as difficult as possible for them, or by criminalising fellow humanity and neighbourly love as voluntary organisations show when helping paperless immigrants. Therefore, the Christian People's Party today asks the Minister of Health if the government will consider proposing the necessary changes to the law or regulation to ensure paperless victims of human trafficking the right to necessary health care. In a life where you live under constant fear of violence and abuse, control and exploitation, it just becomes too much to bear. Paperless victims of trafficking in human beings must be provided with the necessary health care. Since 2020, we have seen an increase in the numbers associated with access to healthcare through numbers from the Pro Centre, because a pandemic affects us all. Pro Centret indicates that only the health department conducted a total of 2 117 consultations with nurses and/or doctors last year. They also report many new users during the crisis. That is why I am today aware of a responsibility to lift a group that has been the subject of debate in Stortinget on up to several occasions. There has been a matter that we have not resolved, but behind this case we have to remind ourselves that it hides people. I must repeat: we must do more for the paperless who live their days as victims of human trafficking. I therefore look forward to hearing the Minister of Health's answers and views on whether the government will consider proposing the necessary changes to the law or regulation to ensure that this group is entitled to the necessary health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3282	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. The Government has recently decided to launch an investigation into the extension of the right to health care for victims of trafficking in human beings. The investigation will also address the question of health care payments. Trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. The Government has an action plan against trafficking in human beings from 2016, with measures to combat trafficking in human beings and to assist victims. In the Granavolden platform, it has been established that the government will strengthen its efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, intensify its efforts to prosecute backers and ensure a comprehensive offer to victims who are exposed to trafficking in human beings. Norway has, through the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, inter alia: undertaken to provide victims with protection and assistance. We have undertaken to implement measures that are necessary to assist victims with physical, mental and social rehabilitation. The government considers it reasonable to consider extended health care rights for this specific group. Suspected victims of trafficking in human beings who have applied for, or have been granted, a residence permit for a limited period of time or who are awaiting a final decision following an appeal against a refusal of such authorisation. A reflection period for victims of trafficking in human beings is a six-month work or residence permit. The purpose of the reflection period is that the victim should be able to break the environment behind human trafficking and get help to get to the fences. Furthermore, it is the intention to facilitate criminal prosecution by those who are behind it. Therefore, a limited residence permit may also be granted for up to one year if it is necessary for the victim to be in Norway while the police are investigating the perpetrators or during the legal proceedings. The latter authorisation may be extended if necessary. Known victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway have been mainly foreign nationals who have been in Norway for a short time, many without legal residence, and from outside the EEA territory. This means that victims of trafficking in human beings today often do not have the right to health care beyond what is most required. Even after they have been granted a six-month period of reflection, many do not have the right to the necessary health care from the municipality and the specialist health service to the extent that it results from so-called full rights to health care. The differentiation of the right to health care is initially the result of a factual discrimination based on the patient’s relationship with Norway. However, there may be grounds for exemption or special arrangements for certain groups which do not meet the usual conditions. I would like to stress that everyone who lives in Norway has a right to immediate help. They also have the right to health care that is absolutely necessary and cannot wait. Persons who are mentally unstable and who present a nearby and serious risk to their own or others’ lives or health are entitled to mental health protection. This also applies when they are illegally present in Norway. Furthermore, children and pregnant women are largely entitled to health care, regardless of whether the stay is lawful or not. In addition, anyone in Norway is entitled to abortion and infective care if they have such needs. The right to health care beyond this presupposes legal residence and also meets one of three other criteria. In order to have full health care rights, one must either, point 1, reside in Norway, i.e. have stays which have been or are intended to last for at least 12 months; point 2 is a member of the public security; or point 3 is subject to a reciprocity agreement with other countries such as Norway. EEA or social security agreements with non-EEA countries. Those who do not have full health care rights do not constitute a uniform group. They're here for a lot of different reasons and under completely different conditions. We believe that victims of human trafficking is a distinct group. Victims are often in a very vulnerable situation. Trafficking in human beings involves forcing, exploiting or seducing a person into certain acts of violence, threats, abuse of vulnerable situations or improper behaviour. Actions may include: be prostitution or other sexual benefits, or coercion or coercion services, including begging. Trafficking in human beings violates fundamental human rights and is a serious crime that affects victims very hard. They often have complex health problems and a high need for health care, both acutely and over time. Cooperation with victims is important in order to detect, investigate and punish trafficking in human beings. There is some reason why victims are granted a reflection period. And as mentioned, a limited residence permit may be granted in addition to this while the police are investigating the perpetrators, or during the trial. Therefore, we will now consider whether this demarcated group should be given more health care rights than they currently have, even if they do not meet the usual criteria. It is reasonable to consider whether they should have access to healthcare on a regular basis during such stay in Norway already at an early stage of the process, not only if a residence permit is granted for at least one year. As a general rule, persons without full entitlement to health care must pay the full cost of health care. We must therefore also look at funding to ensure that any extension of the right to health care becomes a real extension. The Government has decided to investigate the appropriateness of establishing a national function that could provide advice and health care to victims of trafficking in human beings and to provide practical advice and guidance to health care services on health follow-up. The Ministry of Health and Welfare will be responsible for the investigation in dialogue with other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3324	I want to thank the Council of State for the article and the answer he gave for this interview. It's not long since the committee had a similar debate. It's probably barely two weeks since we debated health care in general to the whole group we call paperless migrants. It's no secret that the Christian People's Party and the Right have two different views here. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left and other parties, has, on several occasions, made proposals to improve health care for the paperless. But I'm at least recording that with regard to the group of paperless people we're debating today, there's a great deal of agreement between the Right and the other two government parties. I'm very happy about that, because there's a group that needs special attention. It was also the Minister of Health inside. I am therefore very pleased with the answer now given, that one is now going to investigate how this group can get better access to healthcare, like that which other citizens have and see as a natural right. I am also pleased that the government will look at the economic aspects of this, because it is quite clear, as I also said in my first post, that the fear of having to be left with a big bill enough makes many people choose not to seek health care when they should. That we're therefore looking at an opportunity to find other ways to finance this, I'm very pleased. It is also called for the establishment of a national function capable of providing victims who are exposed to trafficking, advice and health care. It could be a good idea, and I'm looking forward to this being materialized. Now it's the way the word "explored" is often used. Sometimes you have to, especially if you're going to change laws and regulations, but I hope that this investigation won't take too long, because these people we're talking about are among us. They need health care, and they need our attention. I would like to thank you once again for a good answer from the Minister of Health. It was uplifting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3335	Thanks for the feedback on my reply. This is a concrete follow-up to the Granavolden platform, which is our common government platform, where one very clearly said that one should look at how one could give this particular group better follow-up in an extremely demanding situation. We've been looking for opportunities for that, and one of the areas we've uncovered is just the need for more comprehensive healthcare. The professional basis for doing this is clear. It's not a big investigation work that's left. What's important is just to find the practical answers on how this is going to be done, and I hope we can do it relatively quickly. Although there is also much else that is now happening in the Ministry of Health and Health, this is an important matter to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3342	There are not many weeks since we had a debate on health care for the paperless, where the government party voted against our proposals. Nevertheless, I think it is good for the Christian People's Party to promote this interpellation, and of course we support the fact that there is now a distribution work to see how people who are exposed to human trafficking can get better health care, and in line with others. At the same time, I have to say that there is something ethically challenging about this, because one goes into a line where one says that health care can be given to someone and not to others. A set of people who live in booths. If one has been exposed to human trafficking, one is worthy of health care here, while one is in a very difficult situation, but has not been exposed to human trafficking, one does not. It seemed that I was ethically demanding, and we are back to the basics of this case – that health care is a fundamental human right to be given to everyone as needed. That criticism does not get out of hand, even though a person now wants to give this right to human beings who are at risk of trafficking. It does not only apply to the most deferred and vulnerable groups. It also applies to those who are work immigrants to Norway. I read in the class struggle today an article that is quite different, about those who are here in Norway without health insurance cards, i.e. work immigrants. This was about a Polish worker who had not received the personal number one must have in order to be entitled to health care in Norway, and that is because he has such short work contracts, of less than six months, which means that he is not entitled to health care in Norway. Because of the corona he stuck here. If he leaves home, he won't come back again, so he's actually stuck in Norway. He would normally have gone to Poland to get a right to prescriptions, but now he's sitting here, so he doesn't have access to prescriptions and prescriptions. He told in the papers about a friend of him who had a large tumor on the lung, but who had a D-number, as it is called, who does not give right to health care, and was locked in Norway without a fixed. He didn't get medical attention because it wasn't acute. He finally got hold of a private doctor and had to pay NOK 5000 to get the X-ray, and he had to wear several weeks to get a prescription. That's what we're dealing with our employees, those who drive Norway. It's okay and great that one should give to those who are exposed to human trafficking, a right – or sort it out – but I think that how we treat our people in Norway, those who work in our society, and use health care as a scarce resource that is not given as needed, is a practice that we simply cannot be aware of. I have nothing more to add to this debate. The suggestions we brought up here a few weeks ago, fall, but of course I very much appreciate that both the Christian People's Party and the Left are engaged in this matter and try to press the way they can in government, and they should in any case have the honour to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3357	It is fine that it is an interpellation, but we had a case two weeks ago about health care for everyone in Norway, including paperless migrants and travelling to the EEA citizens without a health insurance card. It would have been nice if the Christian People's Party voted for proposals, not just talked about them. At that time, everyone in Norway, including the paperless, would receive the health care they need. It's very nice that the Christian People's Party praises the fact that there's going to be an investigation, in the last part of the last period, that a few people will get some health care. It's better than nothing. We could get a majority in SV's case that not only a very small group, but many important groups would get health care, that for example. pregnant migrants should be given a health service in line with all others in Norway. We could get a majority if the Christian People's Party had voted in favour, but they voted against, so pregnant migrants won't get health care. We also proposed that children should receive the same health care. We could have had a majority, but the Christian People's Party voted against. We also proposed that disabled people should receive health care in the same way as the others in Norway, but the Christian People's Party voted against. We're talking about things, but we lost and were down in all these proposals. If the Left or Christian People's Party had voted for them, they would have had a majority. I know that the Christian People's Party chose to support the right parties to try to to torpedoes the Biotechnology Act. It didn't work out very well. It's good to have an investigation. I hope it comes very quickly, and I hope that everyone, everyone in the whole country, also paperless, will get the health rights and human rights they're going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3374	First of all, I have to express my joy that today we have another opportunity to discuss a theme that the Christian People's Party and the Left have a long – and I would say honour – tradition of having taken up here in the Chamber. Our two parties have repeatedly addressed the health care situation of paperless migrants. It's about thousands of people, the number 18 000 has been mentioned. It goes without saying that in this group there will always be people in need of health care. Of course, acute help is the obligation of the Convention to provide in our hospitals, but it is for those who are on the verge of such a need, it is important that our two voluntary health centres in Bergen and Oslo provide help. There is great respect for the work done in these two places by doctors, psychologists, nurses and other health professionals without payment. It has long been a goal for the Left to give these centres a better economic foundation and the paperless offer elsewhere in the country. Today's interpellation is about a particularly vulnerable group of paperless, those who are victims of trafficking in human beings. I am very pleased that a system will now be explored that will give this group the right to necessary health care, and I want to thank the government for that. As stated by the Council of State, known victims of trafficking in human beings have traditionally been forced into the said group of paperless migrants. As such, although they have been granted a so-called reflection period with a work and residence permit, they have not been entitled to the necessary help from the Norwegian health care system. I agree with the Council of State that victims of human trafficking are a distinct group, and that we obviously have a special moral duty to follow up. Nevertheless, I use the opportunity to say: The question of what is in the terms of immediate and necessary health care is still going to be a constant dilemma for our healthcare system. When I hear the Council of State say that he will investigate the possible recovery of the costs of the group he is referring to, there is reason to draw attention to some of the patients who are seeking Norwegian health services without papers and who are obvious before or later ports in the emergency group if no help is provided. The following examples have been taken from the experience of the Church's Bymition, which runs the health centre in Oslo together with the Red Cross: pregnant women who end up being born at home because they are forced to sign debt statements before being offered at the women’s clinic a patient with severe renal impairment who does not receive life-threatening medications; a child with urinary tract infection, who was discharged from the hospital and told to contact a regular doctor, which he does not, of course, have, to obtain medications and follow-up a young boy who repeatedly visits the doctor with suspicion of cancer; the medical officer rejects him, and the patient dies a man with debilitating oedema and severe pain is rejected when he is considered not to need immediate help; when the patient was finally admitted, it was too late, and he died I understand, and now I ask SV to follow in particular, that we cannot grant everyone who lives in our country, the same rights as our residents who live, work and pay taxes in Norway. But I have great problems seeing that we are not in such cases as those I have mentioned, we are dangerously close to the limit of what we politicians should not have the conscience to accept. Now we're in front of an investigation. Then, of course, everyone knows that in some cases it may be difficult to distinguish between victims of human trafficking and those who are otherwise forced to settle here. Therefore, it becomes particularly interesting to follow this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3409	I would like to thank the representative Grimstad for a very good post, for which I can fully support myself – thank you very much! Thank you for this debate. I have a great deal of understanding of Toppe's objection, because it's always going to be ethical dilemmas you're facing when you're going to scale up groups. I definitely see that. But it can never be that because you can't help everyone, you shouldn't help anyone. This is at least an attempt to ring around one group of very vulnerable people. Then I think it's important from the Christian People's Party to say that it's not said that the fight is over. That is how I understand SV's disappointment, as they underline in the debate today. Together with the Left, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, SV has made suggestions to provide better health care to all the paperless. We didn't get that this time. Then we see that at least we have the opportunity now to lift one group, which is in a special position all the time they are victims of human trafficking, our time slavery. I just have to say that I am happy that the government has chosen to be responsive, and that a system is now to be investigated that makes them better cared for. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3420	I would like to thank you for the debate. The size of the population has recently had a wide-ranging debate on health services for people who are illegally present in Norway in general. I believe that the discussion we have had now shows that there is a broad connection to the investigation work and the purpose of the investigation work that the government is now going to start. I believe this is a specific group that obviously needs extended health care rights. I also perceive that Storting agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-22.ana.ud287e3426	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 12 is over. Today's map has been successfully debated. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
