ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e117	Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on Permits under the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 5, second sentence, of the representative Karianne B. Bräthen as from 13 December and until further notice by the Green Group in the Greens/European Parliament on leave under the second sentence of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Greens/European Parliament, Rasmus Hansson, as from 13 December and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate for Nordland, Sigurd Myrvoll, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Karianne B. Bråthen's leave, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Nordland: Anette Kristine Davidsen For Oslo: Nora Jungeilges Heyerdahl
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e153	Nora Jungeilges Heyerdahl is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e164	The representative, Mrs Hussein, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e169	I would like, on behalf of the representative of the Audun Lightbakken and myself, to put forward a proposal to ensure democratic anchoring and control of invasive disease protection measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e174	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The President will state that case No. 10, Unit, will be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e202	The President will propose that the proposal for a representative be sent to the Financial Committee. The representative, Sofie Marhaug, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e209	I ask that the proposal for a representative on behalf of Bjørn Moxnes, Marie Snee Martinussen and myself be dealt with urgently according to the paragraph of the Rules of Procedure we in Red like so much, § 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e214	The size then goes to voting on the way in which the report is treated 169. Alternatively, the President's proposal on committee procedure and the Red's proposal on procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure shall be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e249	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e266	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e283	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e290	As the rapporteur, it is often the case that we thank the members of the Committee for their cooperation in the matter, and of course I do so in this matter as well. But in this matter, I would also like to bring forward the Committee Secretary and the cooperation with the Department of Law. In this aggregate proposition, a number of legislative changes were originally presented by the Solberg Government, both in real and technical terms. With regard to holiday pay and the shortening of unemployed labour income, there are issues that have been changed through the budget agreement of the Stortinget. This is also the background to the fact that the rapporteur and the administration have received legal assistance from the Ministry, in order to ensure that the suspension presented today is in line with the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The budget agreement provides for the continuation of the temporary holiday pay scheme in 2022 without any changes made by the Solberg Government, which resulted in a reduced rate, a reduced vesting period, a requirement for the receipt of daily allowances for at least 25 weeks and a ceiling on the amount of the holiday supplement of NOK 12000. The continuation of the interim arrangement is supported by the Progress Party and Red in addition to the parties behind the budgetary agreement. Furthermore, the proposal contains changes related to the winding-up of special rules on daily subsistence allowances for fishermen and fishermen, the coordination of daily allowances against private occupational pension schemes and changes to the legal text relating to social benefits for the treatment of logopeds and audio-pedagogues – the former is not supported by SV and Rødt, while the others are promoted by a single committee. It is also an overall committee which endorses the proposal to introduce a new derogation from the limitation of the duration of redundancy benefits. The second paragraph of point (a) of Section 11-12 of the Law on Social Security is proposed to allow for an extension of the period of benefit if the recipient has only begun appropriate treatment and/or work-oriented measures after a long waiting period for healthcare treatment. At the same time, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party warn that these parties will ensure that persons receiving redundancy benefits are extended if they are not completed by the Nav or Health Service. The budget for 2022 is increased by 770 million. kr. In the Hurdal Platform, government parties state that persons receiving redundancy benefits receive an extension if they are not fully resolved by Nav or healthcare. There has been a lot of evidence that the AAP scheme does not work after the intention. Many people experience that they get into the system without anything happening. We have to make progress for people who are being followed up. We have also heard stories about people who have not been clarified within the deadline and who have remained standing without income protection. The proposition also proposed to replace the current scheme with a free amount of income for misfits of 0,4G by a scheme whereby a lower reduction is granted within an income range from 0 to 1,2G. This has been rejected by all the members of the Committee with the exception of the Right. The victim shall not receive a cut-off of labour income from the first crown. We were contacted by many who were very confused about this proposal. Rarely have I received so many e-mails, messages, telephones and tags in social media as in connection with this proposal. We've been contacted by people who are disabled, but who are still doing a social job with their ability to work – as support contacts, as local politicians, through the rule of law, as law enforcement officers, and with other important contributions to society. In addition, today we are dealing with legislative changes that ensure that the child supplement for the disabled is reintroduced. Shortening this child supplement may reduce children’s ability to participate in sport and culture when the family economy is weakened because Mom or Dad have become ill. It appears from the budgetary agreement that the ceiling on the sum of child allowances and disability allowances is to be abolished from 1 July 2022. Finally, a number of linguistic and technical changes are promoted in this overall proposal supported by an overall committee. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e313	As the rapporteur has well explained, this is an overall proposal which is widely accepted by the Committee in several areas. This proposition also promotes proposals for necessary changes to the law, precisely in order to meet the changes made by the Stortinge, but also the proposals proposed by the Solberg Government and the Støre Government in the budget and the supplementary proposal respectively. So with this proposition, we're introducing a new derogation from the three-year limitation period for the recipients of redundancy payments. The Public Social Security Act is amended to allow for an extended period of benefit if the recipient has only begun appropriate medical treatment after a long waiting period for healthcare treatment. The exemption shall also be granted where a recipient has been examined and awaited treatment and the investigation and waiting time for treatment taken together has taken a long time. The Solberg government tightened up to the maximum time needed to receive work clearance money in order to make progress in the Nav clearances. But this is an example of something that should reasonably be added to the list of exemptions, not least under a pandemic where health services have been under great pressure. It shows how important it is to keep the pressure on clarifications for AAP recipients, especially given that the government has announced an extension until the summer of 2022. It also shows how important it is to focus on reducing our health cows, as the Solberg government did before the pandemic broke in. This is also done – as the rapporteur was quite right about – a small but important change. It is that logo horses and audio-pedagogues can assist with their competence for the examination and treatment of patients referred to by a doctor for disease or injury. By removing a clarification that says that ‘language and speech defects’ are to be supported, a negatively charged term that many of these users have reacted to is also removed. So for holiday money on day money: in this proposition, there's a bigger change in the size than I think is normal. Thus, in its draft budget, but also in its supplementary proposal, the Solberg Government proposed to wind up the temporary holiday pay scheme for day-care recipients in 2022. This is a scheme introduced as a result of the pandemic, but thus as an exception to the new rules introduced in 2015 and adjusted in 2016. It is important to remember that those who have been unemployed would receive vacation money in the period from January to October in 2022, also with the proposals of the Støre-Registration and the Solberg-Registration. Equally full track Nav has a lower leave than many years in the coming years, and it is also not necessary, in the view of the Right, to have a temporary scheme that was intended to be adapted to a situation where very many people had no job. The reason for this is that the scheme that Stortinget adopts today, and goes back to, means that everyone who has been unemployed for more than eight weeks is paid holiday money at the amount of the year after they were unemployed. The scheme proposed by the Right-wing Party Government and adopted in Stortinget meant that those who have been unemployed for more than one year can take four weeks’ leave from the job search with no curtailment. In other words, you give day’s money and room for action to those who are long-term unemployed, instead of paying back day’s money to those who are back in work. The second change that is made — or rather not made — is the changes in the curtailment rules of the disability. The disaster reform, which was adopted ten years ago, was supposed to make it easier to combine disability benefits with work. When you wait ten years and see that the reform doesn't work as it should, you have to make adjustments. The Employment Committee has said that today's system of allowances can act as a barrier to getting into work, at least to work more. We can prove that many performers actually do so little to work beyond 0.4G that this leads to more laxity. This is contrary to the objective of the reform. One consequence of the changes proposed by the Solberg Government, which has been continued by the Big Government, is the introduction of the right of assistance to get into work from the first crown – not only for those who can be expected to receive income above 0.4G. That's okay enough: The Storting majority does not agree with either the Solberg government's proposal or the Støre government's proposal. But then it is that the frail reform has still not achieved one of the important objectives, and so it is exciting to see in the future not only what the majority of the Great Britain can jointly oppose, but also what they can be for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e338	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a well-informed case. The case concerns legislative changes necessary to follow up proposals made in proposals for the State budget for 2022 in the Proposition of the Solberg Government, the Appendix of the current Government and the Agreement between the Government Parties and the SV of the Stortinget. First of all, I would like to thank Mr SV for the constructive debates that have taken place. There is one of the most important things in this case. These negotiations greatly improved a number of measures within the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm very happy about that. This applies to holiday pay of daily allowances that you have received in 2021, where the holiday pay is paid in 2022. There is no reduction in disability benefits in income up to 0,4G and the sum of disability benefits and child allowances is eliminated. And then there's one thing that's not in here, but that's also about the same area, and that's that child welfare is no longer to be taken into account when measuring community social support. This has made the budget of the red-green government better, and we are pleased about that. There has been constructive cooperation that makes people more confident about our government now. What is then the first point is the temporary holiday pay scheme – and then in popular terms. A separate clause, §4-14 of the People's Security Act, is proposed for holiday money earned in 2021. Detailed rules are laid down in the Regulation. What the budgetary agreement implies is that one continues the temporary holiday pay scheme without any restrictions, i.e. that one uses a rate of 10.2 p.m., that one has no reduced period of earnings, that one does not have a requirement to have received a daily allowance for at least 25 weeks, and that there is no ceiling of NOK 12 000. There has been an important case from the trade union movement, and that has been corrected. In the case of redundancy benefits, a new derogation from the limitations on the duration of the AAP is now introduced, which means that the second paragraph of point (a) of Section 11-12 of the Swedish Social Security Act is proposed to be amended, so that it can also be granted an extended period of benefit if the recipient has not received the necessary medical clarification or work-oriented measures only after a long waiting period of treatment in the healthcare system. This is essential, and it is a matter to which we come back in connection with the fact that there must be a new permanent arrangement, from 29 or 30 June in 2022, because the proposal we are now considering, is thus going to be 1 July 2022. The next is that we managed to change a reduction in disability benefits from social security and public and private occupational pension schemes against labour income if the disabled person earned more than 0.4G. Regeringen Solberg said that it was a very favourable arrangement to work until the amount was free, and the representative Asheim now said that the rules are like this – and as we continue, with 0.4G, i.e. approx. 40000 kroner or above it – it is a barrier that is problematic. If one were to change that arrangement, it is by changing the 0,4G barrier so that one takes a step-down of the disability if one has an income higher than 0,4G. It's a very important system, and I'm very happy that we got it. Then we have the big symbol thing that the previous government introduced, with a roof on the sum of children's supplements and in addition, which is lifted from 1 July 2022. It's a big and important change. It was the one that provoked the most, for it was the line of work in its ideological form from the previous government: no one should have greater disability and child supplementation than one had of previously low income. It is necessary to use intelligence here, reason must be used, and it is now in the contract. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e353	We're dealing with Prop. 4 L for 2021 to 2022. It deals with changes in both the People's Security Act and other laws. I do not go into each one – the rapporteur has explained well about this. I'm going to focus on two things in my post. It is quite remarkable how the decision of the Storting is not followed up until there is a budgetary union. On a proposal from the Progress Party, the Storting decided on holiday money for daily allowances, and it was not followed up either by the government of Solberg or the government of Støre, despite the fact that the Workers' Party promised it again and again in the election campaign. What's strange is that SV had to negotiate into a budget settlement that Stortinget had decided. I do not ignore the fact that this was a negotiating tactic from the government of Støre, and that the holiday money was spent on people as a 'poker chip' in these negotiations. What had been most decent was, in fact, to have followed up the decision of the Storting and introduced it at first. But in any case, it is gratifying that holiday money is now coming into place anyway. Another matter where the government of Støre used «copy paste» from the government of Solberg was that they wanted to cut the amount free of charge. So the ordinary people's party wanted a disability benefit that serves us to say NOK 40,000 a year in addition to the disability benefit, to lose NOK 14 000 a year before tax. It might make sense with a sleeker model, as some of the previous speakers have mentioned, but to think that it's going to be a good intention to take people away from social security if you make NOK 5000, NOK 10,000 or NOK 30,000 a year, is not about the working line, it's just unsocial. Fortunately, it was not adopted, although both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party, the Workers' Party and the Center Party said that they initially wanted to shorten the disability to people. In any case, the Progress Party is pleased that what we initially wanted and proposed is now being adopted – both in terms of holiday pay and disability benefit. It shows that the opposition plays an important role in this magnification, and the Progress Party will continue to make proposals and address matters in this Chamber that are important to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e366	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for his good work and thanking Mr Lundtegen for his good cooperation in the budgetary negotiations. It has led to a new political course and a more social budget. It also affects the changes we are dealing with today, which are several important changes for people. Several have already been involved in the holiday pay scheme, and it is clear that, hopefully, there will be fewer lay-offs when a pay support scheme is put in place. But that does not mean that those who have been unemployed, those who have been unemployed, do not need vacation money. Therefore, it is very gratifying that there are changes in both the short and long term, where the budgetary unit has pointed to a permanent arrangement for which there is a majority. It's about the fact that being unemployed in no way is the same as being free, and that even people who are out of work and unemployed should have the opportunity to spend their holidays with their family. It is also gratifying that the amount of the free money was not reduced. I understand very well the intention behind the Employment Committee and the desire that it be possible to work more for those who are able to do so despite failing health, but there is a need to see that the form and life are not always coincident, and to listen to all those who have expanded their lives and their health history for us to land wisely and in their interest here today. I'm very happy that that happens, because there are few people who haven't received e-mails from desperate people who have feared not being able to be supportive anymore or to get an eternal dance with Nav if you can do some work. Then you better come back and see how you can strengthen the opportunity to work when you're not finished, and also consider raising the amount of the allowance on a later occasion. It is particularly gratifying that the child supplement for the disabled should no longer be reduced. It means a lot to people, especially to those who have little. There may be a difference between whether the kids can go on football when the spring comes and the legs have grown and the old shoes have become too small, or whether they have to stop because there is no money for new shoes. Having a supplement that actually makes sure that bread and pants are in place, even if Mom or Dad have lost their health, is fundamental to well-being. It is also gratifying that, through the budget agreement, we have put in place the least of those who have, and who have to apply for economic social assistance, to retain child welfare. In the case of redundancy payments, there are some important changes today. It is absolutely essential to extend the period for those who have not been clarified. But also here, it is important to come back to sustainable solutions, because we know that the contractions and cuts that have taken place have shaped people's lives in a very serious way and contributed to increasing economic differences – both through reductions in the course of the race, through the withdrawal period and through reductions in the number of young people. So I'll finally mention fishermen and fishermen, who are not expected to have a budgetary impact, but where SV will follow closely to assess what outcomes the changes will have for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e383	The autumn elections represented an incredibly powerful signal from people in Norway that they wanted a new course. So after eight years of unsocial cuts in a series of social security schemes under the Solberg government, 100 of 169 mandates in this room were placed safely on the red-green side of the election. It was a powerful signal that a new policy had to be pursued in the country. That is why so many red-green voters were shocked, disappointed and furious when they discovered that a number of the most central election vows to the Workers' Party and the Centre party had not been included in the additional number from the government. There are in particular two crucial points that many were disappointed. One was for holiday money, which was a clear promise from both red-green parties in the government, but which had nevertheless fallen out of the additional number. The second was the continuation of Solberg’s government’s cut in the amount of redundancy. That is why it is with great pleasure that we can stand here today and sum up that the pressure and pressure that has come against the government has led to these cases and a number of other issues – such as child allowances for disabled people, the improvement of redundancy payments, etc. – now seems to be on the way. I must thank not only SV and LO, but also all the good forces in the Workers' Party and the Center Party who have pushed to get these things right. Holiday pay for the unemployed is a very central right to ensure that the year after you have returned to work, you should also have the opportunity to take a vacation. For very many people it is not voluntary to take a vacation even. You have to take that, and then you need money to have a vacation, even if you have been unemployed for the year before. I dare remind this room of the holiday money scheme that has been adopted by the local government representatives, which means that you get twice as much and twice as the holiday money – not only the first year you are elected to the Stortinget, but also the year after you have left – and that despite the fact that you get twelve months’ fees, and not eleven, as in a normal holiday pay scheme. The other thing that seriously put the minds in the boil this fall was cut off in the amount of free time. We may have had a slacker escalating the free amount, but it must be at the top of the free amount of 0.4G. If a proposal had been made in line with the principle of the Employment Committee — at the top of the 0.4G level — it would be possible to start discussing a scheme that might have stimulated more work. But by removing the amount of free money in its entirety you saw quite quickly – and I think I can say on behalf of most people here in this room that there are few things that have triggered so many despairing, furious feedback from people like this one has done – that a number of unfortunate people informed that they would now end up in the jobs they had, with the small jobs they had, with the few opportunities they had to contribute to the economy and society. If the unsocial proposal had remained, it would, contrary to the representative Asheim claimed to be the government's intention, have pushed thousands of miscarriages out of the small part of the labour force. That is why it is incredibly good that we have turned that case around, and that we keep the amount free of charge too late. But I must say that I think it is a little alarming how many of the parties in this room that did not seem to be aware of what this matter was about, before after the cuts had been proposed and started. There is cause for concern if the representatives of this Chamber and the representatives of a number of parties in this Chamber do not know the everyday life of disabled people in Norway, which is a huge population group, well enough to understand how disastrous the consequences of such a scheme will be. As the president was in the past today: it's almost Christmas, and then you get to take good care of the good and congratulate both the government parties and the SV on having managed to sort out a number of the most unsocial cuts that came under the Solberg government. Then you just have to hope that's the path this continues, and that it won't be necessary to make a people's uprising every harvest to put in place basic election vows.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e402	I am pleased that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV through the budget agreement are some of them to pass on the holiday money scheme from 2021 to one more year. The legislative proposal that has been put forward allows for such a scheme, and the government will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a permanent holiday supplement scheme for fire-free daily allowances in 2022. I look forward to that. Then there are strict conditions for entitlement to extended benefit periods for redundancy payments, and in this proposition there is a proposal that exemptions may be granted for long waiting periods for treatment. This means that the beneficiaries of redundancy benefits who, after a long waiting period for treatment, have started appropriate medical treatment and/or work law measures, will be entitled to an extension of the benefit period for up to two years, as the other exceptions do today. It's a change to take effect from 1 July 2022. But I would like to stress that this change is not the only change in redundancy money that today's government will propose. As mentioned in the additional number, the government intends to make proposals for changes to the work clearance system that follow up the Hurdal Platform in this area, and it will return to us as early as possible in 2022. In the meantime, the government has proposed to extend the period during which one can receive redundancy payments under the National Social Security Act § 11-12, until 30 June 2022. I have also seen that someone has asked questions about what happens to those who are ready for work after a period of work clearance. I would therefore like to make it clear that the government will naturally extend the period during which a person can receive a redundancy allowance under the Social Security Act § 11-17, in addition, out of January 2022, in the same way as the right to receive a daily allowance has been proposed to extend to the same time. The disabled child supplement is an important contribution to a family of children who have a weak economy. That's 40 pst. of the basic amount for each child and the income of parents will be tested. The previous government changed the rules for the children's plugin to vice versa by introducing a roof for the sum of children's plugins and disability. There is something that has rammed people with very low incomes, and has contributed to increasing social differences. So I'm glad that the Labour Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have been able to lift this roof from July 1, 2022. It's a change that means that some misfits that support children under the age of 18 will increase the payment of child supplements. In the proposed proposal, there is also a proposal that is in line with the intentions of the 2011 pension reform, which is to ensure that beneficiaries who receive an old-age pension from private service pension schemes will no longer receive daily allowances reduced against the old-age pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e420	The discussion about holiday money on daily pay is in the best way possible, and as the Council of State has answered earlier, she has clarified that this is something the government has said that they should reverse, but that there was no room for doing so in the supplementary bill. What we haven't heard so much about is what the Council of State and the government think about the proposal for changes in the amount of free money for shortening disability benefits. I sincerely ask of interest: is it such that the Council of State was initially in favour of the change proposed by the Solberg Government, which was also included in the supplementary proposition of the Government of Støre, or does the Government Council share the enthusiasm of the parties in the Storting that the proposal she herself has submitted was not adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e426	This government wants to make it easier to combine it with being at work. When it comes to this specific proposal, although it was not discussed in the employment selection, one saw that in the hearing that came after, there were several who had good and critical considerations relating to the effect that the type of scheme might have. I also believe that the debates we have had after the right-wing government presented this proposal have helped to shed light that it could potentially have some social consequences. I think, therefore, that the budgetary agreement that the Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have reached is a good budgetary settlement, which takes better care of the social dimension than the proposal of the Right-wing Government. Of course, we need to work systematically in the future to make it easier to combine disability with being able to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e431	I thank the Council of State for the answer. One thing is the change that is now being downgraded in Stortinget – okay, then you won't. It's just an instrument. As I said in my post, the goal of the reform was to make it easier to combine work with disability. I believe that you have to look at the points made by the Employment Committee that you have a threshold that makes the barrier to work more for those who can do it become too large. The question to the Council of State is then: can we expect other proposals to be made to amend the curtailment rules that will make it easier to combine work with disability benefits, and can this also mean tightening up in some areas to allow others to escape?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e436	When there are abbreviations of the kind to which the right-hand government has added, there are no plans about it. What the Hurdal platform sketches are, for example, to submit proposals for an activity reform for young people with a job guarantee, which can help to ensure that several of those who are currently on clearance runs, which lead to far too much to 100 pst. disability, to a greater extent, should make it possible to test out the work environment and have a link with the labour market. This is about not giving up young people who might have had more opportunities if they had been followed up more closely than they are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e441	Now it comes on holiday money for day money, and it is joyous that the Advance Party is for it. But I'm thinking about something that the council said in her speech, she said she's looking for holiday money to come, she said she was "smooth" – I remember she used that word. What I think is a little strange, is that when the Council of State for no more than a month ago, in November, stood here in this room when my good colleague Dagfinn Henrik Olsen asked questions about this, the Council of State said that the government would not introduce holiday money into the allowance. She said, ‘When it relates to the budget for 2022, we were forced to make a sound economic assessment.’ In addition, the Council of State said that the interest rate could be increased by introducing holiday money on a daily basis – four weeks ago. Does the Council agree with what she said four weeks ago? Or does not holiday money on daily allowances lead to an increase in interest rates and irresponsible economic policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e451	I think I was also clear in the previous round when this was discussed, that there is not necessarily a causal relationship between putting money into holiday money into daily money and that the interest will automatically go up, but that of course it is necessary to make a sound economic assessment. It did one then, it's also done one after another. I and this government have always been in favour of introducing a better system associated with holiday money for the day. I also expressed that at that time. I'm glad that the discussions we've had related to the budgetary conciliation here at the Swedish Labour Party, SV and the Centre, have given room for new holistic assessments. As I said, I look forward very much to providing a permanent holiday supplement scheme for the daily allowance with ignition in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e456	There has been a consensus on an important extension of redundancy payments, and there are also some changes that are being made today. But the Council of State itself announced in its statement that there were further changes pending, and it is also in the budgetary unity between the SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Now, the Council of State is known for its thorough work and will have time to do it as well. However, I wonder if we can already hear some reflections about both the content of the work clearance money for the future and the time perspective in the work – based on the views of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e461	I thank you for the question. There is a need to make some changes to the work clearance scheme both in the short and longer term. Some of the things that apply in the short term, I hope we'll be able to both listen and deal with the Storting in a way that makes it possible to bring it into force from 1 July, that is, just after the extension that we've added to the additional proposition from the government will expire on time. That means that what I want to do is to make some changes that better care for the social dimension and make it more likely for more people to be able to clarify – not least to be clear about work. In the longer term, we need to look at how we can measure those who are on the work clearance scheme in a way that ensures closer follow-up than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e466	When we discussed this matter of holiday pay on daily allowances earlier this fall, the Council of State taught me and Red about the responsible economic policy. It was irresponsible to introduce holiday money on a daily basis in the financial situation that was in November. Since then, and after negotiations with SV, the government has not only reinstated holiday pay, but also a number of other new measures, such as: the child's pension for the disabled and the amount of the child's pension for the disabled has been reduced by the amount of the child's pension. What concrete thing in Norwegian policy is what has changed between November and today that makes what was then totally irresponsible proposals from Red now seem to be very responsible, according to the government's own policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e473	Now it is the case that Red's alternative government budget has quite different proposals for containment than the current government has proposed for the whole-society scheme to be applied for 2022. I still mean that I am on a fairly safe basis when I ask for safe economic governance. What Red in its alternative state budget adds is so extensive and immediate, among other things. tax change that it is difficult to see that it is justified from one year to another. But what the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have put in place collectively is both a tax profile that contributes to more redistribution and forbearance, and not least bets that contribute to a greater degree of social justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e478	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e485	These have been some exciting months, and I have to say that as a completely fresh representative, the debates have been very touching on me. One meets people who have ended up outside the community, who have been imprisoned in the jungle, waiting for clarification, and who have experienced stigma and that the basis of life and the arrangements are being rocked, and then it is clear that trust in the Norwegian system is being weakened by many. For this very reason, I am unlikely to be happy that we have now received a government that takes this into account, and that creates security, etc. by making corrections and fairer changes in redundancy payments both for those who are under clearance and for those who have completed their work and are waiting for something to be done. Knowing the stigma at the same time that a scarcely anyone can afford to get the household, Christmas, and the children's and family economy to go around is demanding for a lot of people. In particular, we've met a lot of people in the last few weeks who have known the fear of what will happen if there are further abbreviations in the disability. The representative of Meininger Saudland from the Progress Party may say that new government has slowed down, but I would say that in eight years of civil government, nothing happened here or when it comes to holiday money for day money. There had to be another multiple. We need to make sure that more people get into activities and out of work – all those with resources and residual working capacity for it. But our line of work is about something other than the previous government say. It's about giving possibilities and understanding that it's not just to be nice that we have a part of these schemes. It's because it's the best thing for our whole society -- that one sees the values in each other, and that one gives each other the ability to participate in society and in the community. This is just the beginning. I'm looking forward to everything that we're going to get together with each other in the time that comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e497	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e514	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e521	In the context of the supplementary number and budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, it is proposed to increase the employer’s pay obligation at the beginning of a leave period – employer’s period 1 – from 10 to 15 days. With the exception of the Progress Party, the entire Committee supports this amendment. I would like to stress that the situation is changing rapidly. This change was presented by the government on the grounds of a better labour market. We have now become accustomed to living in an open society again in the autumn, and then came omicron and turned everything on his head again. I would therefore – and I am glad that both the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Labour are sitting in the Chamber – send with anticipation from at least us in the Labour Party on the Stortinget that we are still following the situation closely, because when we look at the time this proposition was made, and today when we adopt it, we know that things can change quickly over the next few weeks. That being said, I am presenting the Committee's position today. I have registered that there has been a loose proposal from the Progress Party on this matter today, and I then inform you that the Workers' Party does not support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e530	After the previous pandemic wave, the Norwegian economy has strengthened at a high pace. Labour demand has increased. Unemployment has fallen rapidly, and we are approaching the level before the pandemic. Our biggest problem in the labour market has sometimes been job vacancies and labour shortages. When labour has suddenly become a scarce resource, it is not necessary to have such strong incentives to bind up the perimeter of enterprises with low activity. It's not right when we see other companies wanting people. This is why the Right supports the government’s proposal to increase the employer’s period of compulsory pay during leave. However, we see that the infection situation is not exactly the same as when this proposition was sent to Stortinget. We know that the next few weeks are unpredictable, and we know that we might have to go back to decisions that have been made at a time when things looked so brighter. The right has pressed for a pay support scheme to be put in place. There is an important emergency aid to ensure that businesses avoid permitting as far as possible. Therefore, wage support is a good solution in the short term, but if we get a long-term situation of high infection and what belongs to it, we should go back and re-assess the rules of leave. That is an important reservation for the Right in this case. The decision to increase the employer’s period of compulsory pay in the event of a leave should be able to change rapidly. If we see that the infection is increasing and the risk of permeability is increasing, we need to be involved. On the right, follow the situation closely and propose changes if necessary. We also expect, of course, that the government will not allow the proposition to become a resting place, but that in a special situation you will always be prepared to change your position. Just like last year's pandemic wave, we're going to meet the needs of business and employees this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e541	The Koron apandemy has been in the world for almost two years, and it has also hit Norway hard. It affects the working life, the business life, and not least our privacy. Virus has made our lives unpredictable for long periods now. Today we discuss the employer periods 1 and Prop. 16 L. Over the last two years, this period has been cyclically adjusted for Norwegian employers when the situation so requires. It's been important. This proposition was promoted when Norway looked slightly different. There's been a lot of people in there. We were a little bit more optimistic a month ago. It's hard to predict, and that's why we should stick to the facts that are today. At present, we need to be aware that changes may be needed as a result of an ongoing wave of infection. We in the Center Party expect the government to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way if it needs to. In this proposition, the government proposes to adjust the number of days from 10 to 15 and to bring these changes into force from March 2022. We in the Center Party support these changes, and at some point our society may have to return to normal. No one knows what the future will be, and maybe it is. It is now necessary to indicate that, when the pandemic is over, normality must return to Norwegian employment, both for employers and for employees. Nor do we in the Central Party support the loose proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e552	The current snapshot is that we've got an aggressive wave with covid-19. The government has introduced interventional measures that affect society, including industry in particular. Several thousand people have received permitting notices, and many more are at risk of entering the Christmas celebration with the permitting notice in hand. This comes at the top of an already very demanding situation with high power prices and the challenges it poses for the most people. At the same time, the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy, with the exception of the Advance Party, have decided to tighten the legislation on the leave. While strict measures, advice and recommendations have been put in place by the government, which in practice means that Christmas tables are cancelled, table reservations are cancelled, and concerts are cancelled, the majority of Stortinget announces that they will normalise the permitting legislation. This is extremely unmusical to those who have had to bear the burden for a long time. This means that employers’ wages and salaries will increase from 10 to 15 days from 1 March 2022. The progress party believes it is a completely wrong signal to send to companies that have already been kneeling for a long time, after almost two years of shut-down, restrictions and restrictions on operations. The Progress Party will not support the government's proposal, and we hope that the rest of the Stortinget will make sense and support our loose proposals in the case, on reducing the employer's pay obligation to five days, which is what businesses are actually asking for. We should quickly put in place a payroll system that allows companies to avoid going out of business. Wages and salaries support can allow more companies to keep people in work, but for some, permitting is simply inevitable. On a case-by-case basis, we have seen the new government's unwillingness towards business and employers. Not only does it want to increase the pay obligation of leave, but in a situation where sick leave is greatly increased because people follow the advice and recommendations of authorities on isolation and quarantine and to stay home for symptoms, one expects the employer to take the entire bill. The Progress Party has made proposals to representatives in Stortinget to reduce the employer's period of sick leave due to covid-19 to three days. This proposal does not come before the end of the new year, but it should have been dealt with urgently. The increased cost to business comes at the same time as the government sends a tax bill of 10 billion. kr to business. This makes it visible that we've got a government that doesn't understand, or at worst doesn't care about, the challenges of business. In sum, the government creates this unsafe job. It is important to address Norwegian employers so that we do not risk losing jobs because the financial burden is too high. We are totally dependent on the functioning of the business community, and on the security of our jobs. I refer to the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e575	The representative, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e580	The debate we have now shows how fast the situation can change in the demanding time we are in now. Hopefully, when a wage support scheme is put in place, it will make it possible for fewer people to be permitted and for more people to be able to work in-house training, skills enhancement and the necessary strengthening of work in the various workplaces, as opposed to the system that has been in place, with a distorted social impact and where we see money disappearing out of the country, and that social security has not been called into question in terms of income bans or that businesses should not cancel people. When we see that the days are so unpredictable, and that the situation was different when the proposal was promoted, it is very reassuring that we have a majority and a government that not only has contact with the parties, but is based on good cooperation between the parties. Therefore, on the SV side, I would like to highlight just the importance of making current assessments, follow along and continue a good cooperation of the parties to meet here too. This is reassuring for workers in a mildly unforeseeable time. Finally, I just want to say that SV does not support the solution proposed in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e589	We are forced to plan for normalisation while at the same time preventing more acute situations with more infectious measures. This proposal is based on future normalisation. In the position taken by the Labour and Social Committee, a change in the payroll law is proposed during the period of leave to increase the number of days on which employers are obliged to pay to those on leave at the beginning of a period of leave, from 10 to 15 days. The background to the proposal to increase this period is that the labour market has been returning to normal. The demand for labour has increased throughout the fall of 2021. Therefore, there is reason to look at the normalisation of the permitting legislation. Although we are currently seeing a large increase in the level of infection and it has been necessary to introduce more stringent measures to prevent infection, and it may even be necessary to look at additional measures if required, I think there is reason to anticipate a normalisation. I am pleased that a large majority in the Committee have joined in the proposal. The management will closely follow the infection situation. We will consider what measures are needed at any time. In principle, the government assumes that the law will be in force from 1 March 2022, and it is also the government budget that will be dealt with next week. But note that the bill is designed so that it is the King of the Council of State as set the time for its implementation, and that can then decide another time for its implementation if the conditions should lead to it. This means that I can ensure that people and businesses will be taken care of by the government following the conditions and the infection situation closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e605	A short time ago, the government and the Stortinget decided to continue the entitlement to sickness benefit for June 2022. We did this because we saw that the infection was rising. It would be natural for the scheme to be continued with a reduced period of employment. You didn't. After I entered the room, I have seen a letter from the department saying that it is now being considered to be reduced to five days from 1 December. You've taken over what's going on, but you're doing it after the fact that the companies are starting to get costs. Would it not have been more useful for the companies that the government, even with regard to the employer's period of leave, was in advance of the problem and said it would be from today's date because the problem is there? There are infectious cords every day, and then it seems like you're trying to draw a picture that there's a normal situation we're going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e611	I have not claimed that there is a normal situation. What I've said is that there is a need to prepare normalization. I would assume that the representative agrees that it is a goal to get into a situation where both the labour market and the disease situation are almost normal, and that we must have laid the groundwork for getting back there. What this government has been concerned about is that there should be a degree of parallelity to what kind of infectious disease control measures it is an institutor and what kind of financial measures it is followed up with. There is little doubt that this government has managed to achieve much greater than the right government, for which the representative has supported the budget over the last eight years. This government has also placed great emphasis on having close contact with the social partners in the design of financial measures. We're going to keep doing that, so that we can better meet the needs of both people and businesses than the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e618	Yes, I agree with the Council of State that it is natural that we should prepare ourselves for a normal situation, but we are not actually going into it. I, the undersigned, am a navigator of professional competence. In my profession, I constantly have to deal with the realities when I'm going to navigate, and that means dealing with the situation and the picture that I'm in. Does the Council of State think it is natural, when you are going into a situation where very many people are being permitted – we see it every day – to send a signal at the same time that we are going to normalize and go back to 15 days, instead of taking on what industry is asking for, which is five days' employer's period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e623	I am not a navigator. However, I would think it would be worthwhile to try to look forward to navigating, not just to the next 100 or 200 meters that are ahead of us, but to see a little more long-term goals for how we want our society to evolve – that we also plan to be able to get to that situation. When it comes to the acute situation of increased infection and the need for infectious diseases, acute changes and the strengthening of economic measures, the government has taken care of it and will continue to follow the situation closely and provide additional measures if necessary. But it's important to look a little bit further too. I dare say that even if I am not a navigator.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e628	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e647	The proposition presented here today will extend the temporary derogations under the State Pension Fund Act and some other laws introduced in the spring of 2020, which have been extended for several rounds, by 1 January 2022 at the latest. This is about the fact that health professionals who are retired can continue to work without any curtailment in the pension. The Committee notes that the government in this proposition points out that the exemption rules relating to the management of the pandemic should not last longer than is necessary – when we are engaged in navigation and looking forward to both the short and the long term. The starting point is that this extension is presented until 1 July 2022, but of course you take a new look at this if necessary. It is a joint committee which presents this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e656	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e673	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e690	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e707	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e714	Until this winter, electricity prices have been increasing. A few days and hours have been very high. It is expected that power prices will stay at a high level over winter. However, developments are uncertain and depend on the weather conditions and power situation in the countries around us. The consumption of electricity is highest in winter, and the Committee sees together that the situation can become stressful, especially for many disadvantaged households. With this proposition, the government proposes to increase the appropriations for housing aid in 2021 in order to cover an exceptional payment. The Committee considers it important that measures be taken to meet the high electricity prices, which particularly affect those with low revenues. The Committee would point out that payments will be made in December, while ordinary housing aid will be paid. We deal with this matter quickly because it is urgent. There is an overall committee that supports the proposition presented by the government, and there is an overall committee that believes it is important to have measures that can meet the high current prices we have now. The electricity prices affect the wallet of all of us, but especially those with at least from before. The government presented on Saturday a temporary arrangement that will help ordinary people across the country to manage the record high power prices over the winter. The scheme will support households with exceptional electricity costs by deducting electricity billing. It is confined to households and does not apply to recreational accommodation. The comprehensive scheme put forward by the government is a whole new approach that different departments have worked hard with day and night to get in place, and that will be of great help to households that are struggling to get ends to meet due to high electricity bills. Now households will receive a deduction from the invoice when prices are exceptionally high. The Norwegian power system is divided into five different price ranges. It is the spot price from force in the price range where you live, which is used to calculate the aid. The scheme shall apply from December 2021 until and including March 2022 and will be managed through the network carriers. It comes as a deduction from the bills in January to April 2022. Saving power is still worth saving. It is also important to have incentives that ensure this. We must be prepared that the power costs will be higher in winter than they are in a normal winter. Last year, electricity prices were very low. This year there is an exceptional situation. This will fluctuate in the years to come. The housing beneficiaries receiving an exceptional payment through the housing aid also receive financial support from the government compensation scheme. We also assume that the government will come back soon with a proposal to continue the extra payments beyond 2022. We also expect the government to follow developments and come to Stortinget if necessary. The size of the population is also expected to provide more money through the recent ageing of municipalities as a result of increased social assistance needs. In the context of the pandemic, a counsellor of 2021 was issued that municipalities should be reticent in imposing conditions on the disposal of housing, car or other assets in order to obtain social assistance. The Minister of Labour also sent letters to both Nav and the municipalities, where she strongly encourages Nav to make individual specific assessments for those who are struggling with high power bills. Yesterday it was found that housing rights and communities are not necessarily caught by the compensation scheme. It also showed that this is something the government will look at. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e742	There is no doubt that the large outbursts in the electricity price in the last few months have been a burden and a concern for a lot of people, including individuals, households and families. Especially now towards Christmas in December there is no doubt that families with children have a great concern, linked to the bill that comes to payment this month. It has therefore been important for the community to set up, in particular for the weakest groups. It has also provided the Stortinget in the past, in several rounds, – also under the previous government – and by now in November it was a similar payment. We know that very many of those that apply are already families with strained finances. I must nevertheless be allowed to say that in the situation we have been in, the government has come late and been behind. I wish the government had worked on these things already when negotiating with SV. This isn't an unknown problem, it wasn't an unknown water you were going into, although the prices are now historically high. The government and the members of the government parties have, whether it has been in press leaks, press cases or TV shows, with small drops marketed or advertised that there would be a major power crisis package. We got it via a press conference on Saturday. At the same time, the government knew that we in this committee were working on an urgent matter on Thursday and Friday, with the release on Friday. It would have been a great advantage for the Committee’s consideration — and at least it would have contributed to our consideration of the matter, even better understanding of what would happen — if what was contained in the package relating in particular to this target group had been highlighted earlier in the process. We have asked questions, and the answers have not been clarifying either, until we finally got a press conference, which probably came one day after the release. We are only allowed to take the information that this has been done, but we believe at least that the matter would have been dealt with better if the committee had been informed earlier, or that the solutions had been put on the agenda in the past. We therefore expect that the government in the future will follow the situation more closely when similar situations arise. It is not certain that this government should only have to deal with a power crisis. There might be other things that you have to act quickly on, and then it might be wiser to be closer to the ball, maybe also keep the committee constantly informed about what might be going on. I'm not saying that that's a requirement, but at least it can help that the committee, when we're going to deal with matters quickly, has a better understanding of what's going on. At the same time, I am happy that we have received a healthy and good treatment. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their good cooperation. I am also pleased that our remark about the guide that Nav could use during the Coronapandemy, which did not receive so much support from the government parties in the previous round, has now managed to bring together an entire committee. Finally, I should like to address proposal No. 1, of which the right is a part. If this proposal falls – and I therefore have the power to say this from the Left – then the Right and Left will support the Committee's recommendation in a subsidiary way, and I would ask that voting be put up to take account of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e757	The representative, Mr Kapur, then referred to the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e762	Norway is now fully importing its high European electricity prices. Imports of high electricity prices create major problems for many. Through this proposition, the government wants to increase the allocation of housing aid in 2021 to cover an exceptional payment. We're doing this to help some of them with the worst advice. But the high electricity prices are also a problem for ordinary people with normal incomes. Therefore, on Saturday, the government announced a new arrangement to help people across the country deal with the record power prices. The scheme provides support to households for exceptional electricity costs by deducting electricity billing. Many are frustrated now, and for good reason. The falls and hydropower in Norway are jointly owned by the people of Norway. A number of sites in Norway have been heavily invaded by nature. Many have had to leave their farm and their work of life. The sacrifices made by many communities have been made for the community in Norway, so that people can get cheap electricity, and that we can develop new industries in Norway. We have succeeded. The Norwegian power-intensive industry is world-leading and environmentally friendly. One of the absolute best things we can do for the climate in the world is take care of this industry. In the early 1900s, non-resident owners of the capital bought up several Norwegian cases in a short time. The desire to take over more of the hydropower was strong. However, prospective national strategists saw that Norwegian Footfalls would have a large, long-term value for Norway. This is the background to the concession laws adopted in 1909 and revised in 1917. The right was also strongly opposed at the time and the concession laws gave the derogatory term «panic laws». Thanks to forward-looking national strategists and courageous, hardworking Norwegian workers, we were able to use natural resources to build Norwegian industry and Norwegian jobs. In the Hurdal platform, the government has announced several measures. Most importantly, the government won't build a single new foreign table as long as we rule. We also announced increased production of Norwegian power, which is important to ensure a low electricity price. The government will also investigate how Norwegian exports of power affect Norwegian electricity prices and what concrete measures can help to ensure that Norwegian renewable power remains a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Then we will set down an Energy Commission to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production, with the aim that Norway will continue to have excess power generation. An increased awareness of how we use our natural resources to ensure a low electricity price in Norway is needed for the benefit of all citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e777	We are now dealing with an important matter for at least nearly 80,000 households in Norway, who have received an account in the mail for the current they used last month, and who are now sitting in their houses and preparing for Christmas and are going to pay the electricity bill, which is huge. At the same time, we see that the money flows into the treasury. I think a lot of them will feel a little bit the same as we in the Progress Party feel, that there is a little rough state that collects billions of dollars in extra electricity, VAT and other revenues, and that gives back small money. It's as if I were going to give the president $300 and the president gave me $50 back. Then I don't know if a would use the word 'rous'. I think I would rather have said that the state has financial muscles to be able to contribute more to an extraordinary situation for the household. I also think that many of those who are out there don't understand why they should cut a gift into a bump, which is what we're discussing in this case, last month. Then Stortinget gathered to give nearly NOK 3000 to every household who accepted this bump, but in this case the government suggested halving that amount to NOK 1500. In the Christmas month of December, when you have a lot of expenses for other things and the current costs are the same, you have to halve one, you have to spend about 100 million. kr instead of 200 mill. kr. There's a lot of money for households, ordinary people and people most, but for the state there's a relatively modest amount of either to spend 200 million. kr, which is proposed by the Right, Advance Party, Left and Red in this setting, or one should be worth only 118 million. kr, which the Government Party and the support wheel SV propose in the setting. I want to use my minutes to appeal to SV a bit - a game that has said to bring down the differences in Norway. They are bound by a budget agreement for the next year with the government party. It's pretty clear that they're going to shake up layers and act together, but now we're discussing a change in the 2021 budget, so SV doesn't have any bonds that won't allow them to take the right grip, as the four parties that are now going in to give it the same thing in December as in November. Only SV's voices are needed to make the Stortinget plural in order to give NOK 2 950 to each household in December as well. One cannot use the things that came on Saturday, as a basis for saying that one should halve the bumps in December, because it will not come into force until next year. It is only when the December stream is due in January that one receives the support that the government presented on Saturday. For everyone who's going to pay the bill say in December, it's going to be very decisive what the Socialist Left Party is saying in this room today. Should a few halves of the supported Stortinget give you one in the previous month, or should a few be the same sum as in November? It decides SV, because they're on the verge. They have no bindings; they can be flushed in layers with Red, the Advance Party, Right and Left, and ensure that they all get about. 3,000 kroner also next month. It gets exciting to hear what SV says in its next post, because it is they who are on the key, it is they who can decide this matter. We have put forward a proposal to give the same thing in December as in November. I also think it's very special of SV in committee, without knowing what the government is going to come up with, to have comments where they're closest to giving a blank authorization to the government that this is good enough. That's exactly what happened here: we've been dealing with one thing we got from the government. We had a prime minister who stood on the pulpit in Stortinget and said one was hours away from getting a solution. It was at the same time that the committee worked on high giving on this matter. We had short temptations, but we got nothing within hours; there were days. So when the committee gave it up on Friday, we didn't know what the government was going to come with on Saturday. Now they have a solution, and she tells us at least she won't solve the household challenges in December. We therefore agree with the proposal we have with the Left, Right and Red, where it says that we should give it the same thing in December as in November. In addition, the Progress Party is behind a proposal that municipalities should not use this extraordinary payment to cut social assistance, and I would like to address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e792	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e797	There are some human needs that are absolutely fundamental, which are at the very bottom of Maslow's need pyramid. Food and heat should not be a concern in our country. We have a welfare state that we've built up together, through generations. It is meant to ensure all security, but not everyone is now experiencing it. We see that the inequality has increased, that many people live at a minimum – yes, actually some below a minimum. Low social security payments, increased props, reduced Nav rights and a pinch of unsocial cuts have unfortunately hit hard. Now we see this massive increase in current costs, and it creates problems for many, both for those who have the least, and also for other groups who have below average to go with. Stories about e.g. Jannike for work clearance money, who is looking for furniture that is given away, at finn.no, so that she can pick them up to the wood, or lonely cares for Tone, who chooses to make noodles with the children for dinner every day because they do not take so long to heat, stories that are not a welfare state are worthy. We put in place a crisis mechanism in November with a one-off amount that would remedy the very worst situation for some. It also helped some, but already then we realized that this could be, and maybe even increase in scope. SV therefore proposed several aspects, together with a few other parts. We suggested that we look at a system that would take care of this throughout the winter. The winter is long, and it may be cold here in the country, and there were no signs then that the situation would get better. We also suggested that a power grant be put in place for the students via the Loan Fund. An increased loan is what the students may not need, they have more than enough of it. The students broke under the pandemic, and they're still doing it, both with their studies and with many lay-offs. They deserve a handshake. We also asked to assess the need and see it all over the country, and we now see that more and more parts of the country also have rising electricity prices. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for any of these proposals in October. That's a little bit of a shame. Then we might have been a little bit less behind than what we are now. In addition, it has to be mentioned that the support we are now granting should go to those who have the electricity costs. It is necessary to ensure that there is no curtailment against other social security schemes or social assistance, so that it is in reality easy for the municipality to get this money, and not the one with the electricity bill. We tried to make it clear the last time. We didn't get a majority. We have not done so far either, but of course we follow closely. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion has made it clear that the municipalities must now be on the ball, and a great deal of discretion and individual judgement must be exercised. The intention here we all agree on. We might have wanted the message out to be even clearer when we see what's really going on somewhere. Today, we will probably deal with a crisis package for those who receive housing support, this time with a somewhat smaller amount of money, yes, but then with monthly payments. In addition, SV has been concerned that the housing support group will also benefit from the broad scheme that the government is now putting on the table. Overall and overall, we believe that there will be an acceptable level for those receiving housing support. SV is more concerned about those who may not receive housing support, but who nevertheless have very, very low income. SV is happy that the government comes with a wider package. That will help many. This is a good proposal and, of course, we must be constructive and help to deal with it as quickly as possible. And we want to work to make the scheme even fairer and more striking than the proposal that is now here. Even though more people now get help, this should not be necessary. We have to look at the causal context in order to prevent us from getting into the situation that we are in now. First of all, we have to work to bring down the inequality. The fact that people don't have financial shoulders to face unforeseen expenses is unfortunately a political defeat. The lack of security, not predictability or a space of action in one's own life creates poor quality of life, creates exclusion, increased morbidity, and it affects us as a society. Then we must look at our power and energy policy. It is a wild policy that the market is reaching heresy, hunting for profit, without any responsibility for the consumer. The responsibility lies with us as politicians. We need to take control of our own power policy. We must have control of the resources belonging to the community. They're just going to benefit from the community. So this isn't the time to lift up to a verbal fight about who wants the most, and who wants to give the most support. Now we have to gather to make sure that no one will freeze through this winter. Today's situation with both pandemic and power crisis makes it clear that we need a more flexible system that takes account of just such situations, and we need to work on that now, before the next crisis comes. That means we have to think about the short and long term, and we have to think about both the cause and the consequence. There are two thoughts in my head, but I think even we politicians can handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e824	There are a lot of people who are now meeting a very difficult Christmas because of sky-high power bills. Something as elementary as power, which we all need to make food, take a shower or wash clothes, now costs the shirt. As an example, some places have cost about 30–40 kroner to take a 10-minute shower. On December 7, I read in my local view, KV, about Melina sleeping next to the oven in the living room to save electricity. As Melina says to the newspaper, "The concerns make me sick." Recently I also read about Jannike, as mentioned by the representative Grete Wold, who found furniture on finn.no to fire with them in the fireplace. It is clear that this is a serious situation, which persists in the wallet of ordinary people. We can't just blame weather for the current crisis we're in now, because it's probably so much a political crisis when people have to find furniture at finn.no to heat up with them. Red believes that market thinking in the power industry has been with ordinary people for too long. We cannot allow that policy to continue. However, some suggest that another policy is possible — a policy with less market thinking. The Tokke municipality was last week at Dagsrevyen, where rapporteur Jarand Felland could proudly tell about the inhabitants of Tokke who pay electricity at fixed prices. It is part of the story that Tokke produces a lot of power, but nevertheless this example shows that a different policy is possible. The high electricity prices have increased revenue to the country through increased dividends from the companies, increased VAT revenue on electricity and increased rent. An estimate from Energy Norway suggests that these exceptionally high revenues to the country in 2021 are of the order of 11 billion. kr. Red believes that there is no justice in the state's making money that most people have to pay too much for the flow and freeze in their homes. The revenue belongs to the Community and should therefore be used for the best interests of the Community. Redly promoted last Thursday a representative proposal where we propose to repay this surplus and that all of the country's approximately 2.5 million households receive 4 400 kroner from this item as soon as possible by Christmas. Furthermore, I refer to the alternative state budget of Red, where we propose by 2022 to strengthen the housing support scheme by 400 million. D more than the budget agreement provides for, while setting up a separate 200 million aid scheme. to cover high heating costs for non-residents. Red believes that the package that the government has now presented, but also today's housing support scheme, which we are discussing here, is not enough to help those who are now struggling to pay the bills during the power crisis. And the housing support system has been eroded for too long, and there are too few who are receiving housing support today. However, Red believes that all measures that can be taken quickly and help ordinary people are necessary — including this exceptional payment of housing aid. However, red seems very strange that the amount proposed here today is halved against the amount adopted in November. And there is certainly no reason to believe that the housing beneficiaries have suddenly received even better advice now in December where to shop for Christmas. That's now that this money is needed the most. Therefore, Red, together with several other parties, believes that the extraordinary payment now in December must be NOK 2 950, which is equal to that in November, and that households composed of several persons will receive NOK 120 in addition to the first person. I also get some déjà vu when the government proposal also this time states that this payment of housing aid can be curtailed against other benefits. The last time we were in this debate, I read up a letter that a social welfare recipient from Nav Bergen had received. So this time let me read a text message that someone received in Kristiansand: Hello! On Friday 19 November, you will receive NOK 3 070 in extra housing. This you have to save until December, because then you will get correspondingly less paid from Nav. Have a nice day. Greetings, Nav. In the previous round, SV and the Progress Party proposed that this money we are discussing today should be added – and not shortened. Similarly, the same batches today propose that this additional payment of housing aid should not be deducted from other benefits, nor should it be deducted from the payment of housing aid in the future. As it is called in the mountain-wet rules: there is no shame in turning around. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is something, but it is far from enough, and we had expected much more from the government than what is being put on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e853	Power prices are sky-high all over the country. For many, this means high costs of heating housing, which is particularly challenging for those with low incomes. This creates a despair among the many who now in the pre-Christmas period don't know how to get the wheels to go around. Temporary strengthening of housing and social assistance is clearly necessary to remedy the current situation. We've done the same before. Both in 2019 and on two occasions in 2021, extra payments of housing aid have been made to cover increased electricity costs. It's also right to do that in December. In November, the group receiving the housing allowance received NOK 2 950 per household, in addition to NOK 120 per person in addition to the first. So now the government is proposing that the payment for December be about half. It is unknown to me what has changed significantly in the short term, which means that the government will not continue the level of support for the very poorest of society. In a letter from the Council of State Gram of 9 December 2021, it is pointed out that the government will return with a comprehensive package that will relieve all households, including that group. It is critical that the answer does not clarify how the package will affect the group receiving housing support. It did not allow the Committee to take a comprehensive and informed assessment of the level of the extraordinary payment in December. How the government takes action by the group receiving housing aid is not a trifle. It has an enormous amount to say to those people who are in this situation of Christmas. Therefore, the government’s actions for this group should be known to the Storting before dealing with this proposition. It is essential that the government monitor the evolution of the current price more closely in the future in order to counteract the difficult situation of many inhabitants. It's not going to come from that this didn't exactly come early, because the terrain hasn't been unknown to the government. As I said earlier in the post, it's a little strange that there's a contraction coming in December. Yeah, of course, it's good for people that something's coming, but I'm very unsure if this is enough. The representative Njåstad named SV as the support wheel for the government, and the representative Grete Wold said that it is important for food and heat. Yes, we fully agree with that, but then it becomes a little incomprehensible when SV today really has the opportunity to actually vote for a proposal that will give a significantly better outcome for them. That possibility is there today, without any breach of any budgetary agreement with the government parties. This will be a distribution that will take much better than the signaled proposal, which SV now stands for – about twice as much. It will really hit those who are now struggling to get the wheels to go around for Christmas. I don't understand if SV still believes that NOK 1500 is more than enough, when one has the ability to actually vote for the double, which will constitute a significant sum for them. It'll be a little special when the representative Sandtrøen has a reflection in 1909. Yeah, there were a lot of sensible people then, I totally agree with that. The centre party did not exist at that time. They didn't arrive until ten years later. This was Gunnar Knudsen, Left, his great work, with the concession laws and the right of withdrawal, which was absolutely necessary. It's also a little bit special when we know that 90 pst. hydropower is owned by the public. The government chooses to use a good part of that surplus for good action, but what they choose today is to use only a small, sharp portion. ‘Christmas’ becomes to me an approximate concept after today. If we really want to help people, we are voting in favour of what the representatives of Kapur and Njåstad have mentioned earlier in the debate. But I understand so far that SV might be most concerned about talking about distribution on paper and not doing it in practical politics, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e870	It's only a couple of months since I last stood here and presented a proposition about extra payments to the housing beneficiaries. Then there were high electricity prices here in South Norway. We still had a hope that the situation would normalize towards winter, but that was not the case. On the contrary, while the North West, Trøndelag and North Norway were for a long time protected by abnormally high power prices, there have been record levels there for a period of time. At the same time, the electricity price in the south continues to be very high. I perceive that there is a broad consensus in this room that we need measures that help the most difficult people, and that we need them quickly. I am pleased that the Storting can deal with the matter a few days after the proposition was made. This gives us the opportunity to get help for many already before Christmas. The housing support system of the house bank is an effective channel for transferring money to a large number of those who find it most difficult, and the government therefore proposes to put it back into use for a new extra payment in December. Since electricity prices have also been high in the north, this time we propose that the aid should go to housing beneficiaries throughout the country. The amount we're proposing is less this time. The payments in November were meant to be a one-off payment, and the amount was proportionate to the additional costs of electricity in the autumn. Now that we see that the high price level can stay through winter, we have to think differently. The government will therefore return to Stortinget in a short time with a proposal to repeat the payments each month for a time ahead where power prices remain high. The housing aid is re-tested every month, and the beneficiaries arrive and fall from all the time. By dividing the payment and disseminating it over several months, we achieve both that more overall benefit from the measure and that the beneficiaries receive the aid more as expenditure is incurred. Thanks to the prompt treatment of the Stortingen, the Husbank can pay an extra amount together with the ordinary housing allowance on 20 December. The budget for 2022 is now in the Stortinget, and once it has been adopted, the government will return as soon as possible to how the extraordinary payments can be reorganised through the winter. Finally, let me add: An extra payment to those receiving housing support is a good measure that reaches many, but not all. Students are now being provided with the possibility of additional loans. In addition, the government presented on Saturday a temporary arrangement that will help ordinary people across the country to manage the record high power prices over the winter. Housing beneficiaries will also be covered by the new scheme. It's also important for me to say that those who get power bills they can't pay may be entitled to social assistance. Social assistance is also a security network at a time like this. We have to assume that the municipalities pay more in social assistance now that the electricity prices are high. They have to be compensated for that. Therefore, the government of the new age has also proposed to strengthen the municipal framework by 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e885	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e890	I think all those who follow this debate feel that he's about anything else than the bills they're with, that's due, so I'm wondering if the Council of State can discuss from the perspective of ordinary people. It's that the bills that you have on the table this month come from the stream as a used one in the previous month, and the arrangements that the government has now presented, on Saturday, apply to the current you use this month. Is it true that we only support $1,500 in December, when you actually have to pay the bill for the current used in November, and the scheme that came on Saturday, first comes in for the bill that expires next month? Is it correctly understood that one contributed twice as much in payment to people in November as it is now intended, if the will of the majority today is going in?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e897	The matter we are dealing with today is, of course, a matter of extra housing support for those who are beneficiaries of housing. In addition, the government has presented a number of other measures to reach both housing beneficiaries, other disadvantaged and ordinary people throughout the country to ensure that the electricity bill is managed. As I said in my post, it is correct that the payment in December will be lower than the payment in November. But it's not a complete presentation of the government's policy, because we are now notifying a monthly payment in the future, through the winter. This will mean that the sum of payments will be much higher than a single payment, and in addition, we will reach more beneficiaries by doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e904	I thought it was well done not to answer the question, which is reasonably simple. I don't think all of them are going to pay their bills, they won't be satisfied with the answer, they're going to get money in January, February and March. Of course it should. There is also income to the state in the billions class in January, February and March, so it should just be missing. Now, all of a sudden, a reality is that in November that payment was supposed to be very long and was a one-time payment. The purpose of her was that as long as the crisis persists, we will contribute a few dollars to meet the need for people to help pay the electricity bill. It'll cost a little over 200 million. kr for the payments in November, it will now cost 118 million. kr. When the state only collects billions in extra charges, it doesn't seem very elegant that one takes billions and spends millions. Does the Council agree that it may seem a little petty that a cut from NOK 3000 to NOK 1500?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e913	No, I don't agree with that, because it's not a proper presentation of government policy. One is that exceptional housing support is one of a number of measures to ensure that the electricity bill is manageable for people. In summary, I believe that the various packages, cut the electricity charge, etc., are fast about approx. 10 B.C.E. kr, maybe even a little bit more. It also depends a little on how the electricity price develops. So that's a significant sum. So it's like people go a little in and out of the housing support system from month to month, but if you were a housing beneficiary in November and if you're there for months, the sum of the government's contribution will be – a little depending on the size of the households – between 9000 and maybe 10,000 kroner for a household. It is a significant contribution to managing the electricity costs over the winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e920	Both the posts of the Council of State and the lines that were just now show at least a government that is very self-satisfied with what they have presented. I don’t think it necessarily reflects what some people do — for example. beneficiaries of housing – feel what has been presented. Consumption in December shall be payable in January. But for the bill that comes in these days, it's not a support – it's at least a reduction in support, what's there. Why does the Council of State think it is social to cut the housing support now before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e925	The proposal is not to cut the housing support before Christmas; the proposal is to increase the housing support considerably before Christmas. It is NOK 1500 per household in addition to the usual housing allowance, in addition to NOK 150 per person if there is more than one in the household. So there's no suggestion to cut the housing support, it's being increased so we're going to make it possible for many of those who have the most difficulty to deal with an extraordinary power cost. In addition, the government announces a monthly payment, so that in sum over winter there will be a significant contribution for housing beneficiaries to deal with high electricity costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e930	During the handling of the case, the Right fraction allowed itself to send some questions to the Council of State. We received an answer to these questions immediately during the call – the night before. It said, if I don't remember completely wrong, that you would come back soon with what solutions you had for this group in December. Then there was a press conference already one day after the committee gave its opinion – well aware that the matter was to be debated today. Would the Council of State agree that it would provide a better procedure, more insight and better clarification – for the Committee, at least – if it had been on the ball earlier and could provide the Committee with information on what measures were envisaged for housing beneficiaries? Or was it that the government invented all night until Saturday?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e937	The government has worked high to obtain quality-secured schemes that can stand up and are accurate. The first housing aid grants were launched quickly — as early as November. Then came the new proposal again last week on housing support, measures for students, and as soon as they got there, further measures were submitted to all households. It is clear that, ideally, one would like to have a full overview of all aspects, but the matter has been promoted as quickly as possible and in such a way that the arrangements can be quality-proof so that they can stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e943	While we've been working on these things beyond the fall, there's been a little bit of different numbers about how many people receive housing support, but there's a lot of thousands, so these are schemes that will benefit many. Nevertheless, there are a lot of people that fall right outside. The housing allowance is given to those who have a minimum, but we now hear stories about those who get eight, nine, ten dollars too much to receive housing support, and who then cannot participate in the kind of arrangements that we now have. Will the Council of State view the housing stock as a device, so it hits more than it does today? And will the Council also consider arrangements for those who are low-paid, or for social security recipients who fall just outside the criteria of housing support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e948	First, I would like to point out that there are also other arrangements that reach other groups, which are presented by the government. It is about the students, and it is about the fact that the electricity charge has been proposed significantly lowered, not least during the winter months. That's true of everyone. The scheme that was presented on Saturday will also reach all households. In addition, there is a separate housing support committee in work, which will present its position now in May, I think it is. The committee was set up by the previous government, and we are now awaiting that investigation. Part of the mandate is also to consider how high electricity costs can be more widely included as part of the assessment basis when measuring the housing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e953	Under the heading ‘Increased housing aid provided less social assistance’ in an article on December 8th, the Council of State states that it cannot guarantee that this lump sum payment will not be deducted from social assistance in December. At the same time, the government is proposing to halve the additional payment currently being dealt with here, against the November proposal. My question to the Council of State is therefore why he believes that residents have suddenly received much better advice in December than they had in November, and why the Council of State will still not prevent the curtailment of this extra payment against other benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e958	What we are now discussing is not the level of performance in general, but how best to compensate them with poor advice for exceptionally high power costs. It is therefore proposed to pay additional housing aid to the housing beneficiaries. That's going to be a good deal. It will now be someone who receives social assistance, and someone who does not receive social assistance. Then, the measurement of social assistance is something that individual municipalities do after an individual assessment in order to ensure the necessary livelihood, and where energy costs will often be included as part of the measurement. It is clear that if a social welfare beneficiary has received additional housing support to offset electricity costs, it is not granted that the municipality should simultaneously measure additional social assistance to cover increased electricity costs once again. It's the totality of the economy of the individual who will count.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e965	The council said that this is where it works and runs on high gear. Yes, I could have mentioned a lot about the gearbox – there must be something rusty in it, because there has to be a lot of veiling here. In many of the municipal housing in housing, the flow is largely dictated. Many of those living there have housing support initially. The costs for many are great, especially for those who are lonely, and this is in retrospect. How does the Council of State, with a good conscience, think that it would be for the lone minimum pensioners to meet Christmas in a nursing home in housing where there are stipulated electricity prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e972	Minimum pensioners may also receive housing allowances. Housing is measured according to given criteria and is a right-driven scheme. It is a little uncertain to me what kind of situation residents in the housing community come into that might not be achieved by the measures that the government is now proposing to the Stortinget. I may have to come back to it if there are any special conditions there that are not covered up, so that we do not reach those that we intend to reach. It is currently unknown to me, but I am happy to look at that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e977	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e984	Like so many others, I fully lived into the life of the fictitious Gutbrand Valley Butangen from the 1600s onwards – development, culture, war, hunger and pandemic Spanish disease, but also belief in the future. In the book «Heknevven» by Lars Mytting, the flow to the village of Butangen came with all its goods, the light of the first bulb, the fall rights and the power plant and the first dairies in the area. What Norway would we have today if we had sold out our trunks, or if we had let American companies take control of oil and gas? The centre party is engaged in national ownership and national control of our energy resources. Yeah, we need a power market. We have had that in the Nordic region for decades, but the target must be low electricity prices in a country where all the prerequisites are right, for people, for industry and businesses. The previous government took the lead in linking us to the EU Energy Agency Acer and opened up even more foreign tables. The center party believes this is giving away national control over our energy. The Hurdal platform states that we should not approve new foreign tables during this period. At the same time, it's necessary to figure out how we got into this situation with so high power prices, and how we can avoid it again. To this end, an Energy Commission shall be set up to identify energy needs and to propose increased energy production. The aim is that Norway will continue to have surplus power. The high power prices we have now provide uncertainty and uncertainty for many, and it is our responsibility to do something about it. Some have thought that the government has been too slow, but spending time on finding reliable solutions is about taking responsibility. Housing schemes for those who need it most were first adopted. Today we extend the housing support to those who receive housing support in November. Then it can be paid before Christmas. That's important, and that's right. In addition, it has been decided to cut electricity charges, at 3 billion. kr. There is extra support for the students of NOK 3000, of which NOK 1200 are scholarships. On Saturday, even wider schemes were promised to compensate for exceptional electricity costs to even more electricity customers. It should still be warm and warm where we live throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e997	I am pleased that those who have the worst money are now getting increased housing support in order to handle the sky-high electricity bills, which is what the Storting now has to deal with. The size has done its utmost to ensure rapid treatment, so that the beneficiaries of the housing allowance can receive the payment as early as December, in a week's time. The Municipal Committee had only two days from the time we received the proposal and until the committee gave its opinion. Unfortunately, we cannot say that the government has played with the Storting on this matter. The government has been behind and has not taken the signals, which were clear as early as October. This means that the government's proposals have brought with them a sense of urgency. From the right we were concerned that the housing beneficiaries would have a particularly difficult December, as the government proposed to halve the supplement, from approx. NOK 3000 in November to NOK 1500 in December. At the same time, there had been vague signals from the Prime Minister in the spontaneous Question Time last Wednesday that the government would, within hours or days, provide an aid scheme that would have hit all households, and which was also referred to by the case-rapporteur and the Council of State in their contributions. The Committee therefore asked the Council of State whether the government would take any other action that would take effect in December for this group. The Council of State's response was quite inconclusive. When the government presented its package on Saturday, it unfortunately became clear that the households did not receive money in this scheme until January next year. On Sunday, it was also discovered that those who pay for heating through housing laws and associations are not covered by the scheme. The scheme has not yet been submitted to the Stortinget but has been launched in small drops that do not give an overall picture. I am afraid that the members of the government do not understand what it is like to have bad advice when the government does not make any effort to ensure that the notified scheme will have an impact on the people's economy before January next year. In this case, the government has been little open to Stortinget, and the government has been little solution-oriented towards those who have high electricity bills and little to route with in Christmas. On the right, the housing beneficiaries will also provide the financial security during Christmas and therefore participate in the proposal to continue the supplement of the housing aid of NOK 2950.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1010	I would like to start by thanking the committee for dealing with this matter as quickly as we did. It's tempting to start a debate about the last eight years and the increasing differences in Norway, especially when the representative from the Right claims that the government doesn't care about people who have bad advice. I am very happy that we in Stortinget today care to increase the bump, and that one also announces to increase her in the months January, February and March. In addition, there will be a multibillion-dollar fuse package, which will mean too many. That the opposition won't take the time to refer to people who have been crying for joy after the news came Saturday is not so surprising, but it means a lot to those who are now going to see Christmas, and who know that the consumption they have of power for December is part of the big security package in January. To the debate on curtailment: I am pleased that the entire committee, as the representative Mudasar Kapur pointed out, is behind the reference to the guide who came under the pandemic. Otherwise, I totally agree with the Council's answer to the question from Drevland Lund when it comes to the question of housing aid and social assistance. Then Drevland Lund shows to my municipality of residence, Tokke, and it's nice to get some advertising for him. They don't have a fixed price there, but they have a maximum, and there are almost no municipalities. Therefore, the government's security package is unlikely to be important to anyone who is not from Tokke, and I'm very happy that she got in place. In addition, there are several bills that people have to pay in January, February and March. People are going to pay for kindergarten and for SFO, bills that this government makes sure to get cheaper. This government is going on after eight weeks of clearing up after eight years of right-wing policy, where we're going to make sure that the differences between people go down. It means that kindergartens are getting cheaper, that first-class SFOs are getting cheaper, that commuter deductions are increasing – and the list is longer. I'm glad we're making changes that will benefit ordinary people, even in the time we're now in, with high power prices. This case and security package doesn't solve everything, it'll still be demanding, but it helps a lot, and I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1023	I think many who are following this debate, or perhaps not following it, are at home waiting for the clarifications that are coming now, in a very serious and demanding situation. I think the Storting is at its best when it deals with important matters quickly. That's point one. Point two is that I think the Storting should listen carefully to what the Council said, as I think had a very factual approach to the issue, and a very good account of how it actually works. I think it's a little cheap rhetoric to try to hit very sharp political coins on this case. First of all, one is behind as a government: why didn't the right-wing government have a single word of high power prices as a challenge in the autumn of its ordinary state budget? I wonder why, since they are now so tall and dark that this government is behind. When we in our first additional number reduced the electricity charge, almost halved it, there was massive criticism from the opposition that this was bad craftsmanship and that one did not hit them a should. When Red is now going to grant 4 400 kroner flat out, it's exactly the same people a hit, or when the Advance Party is going to do it, just that it's in larger volume. We've handled the housing support; the last time the Storting decided it one day, the government put forward the proposition the second day. We have now managed increased social assistance and support for the students. And we've not least changed the unsocial government budget into a much more social budget, in terms of both core time in the SFO, kindergarten prices, commuter deductions, income taxes, spectacles, holiday pay for the unemployed, redundancy pay, plus, plus. That this government is behind, I don't think in any way is indicative. When we arrived on Friday we presented a package that will cover 50 pst. of electricity costs over 70 cents, it bears witness to a government that actually takes the situation very seriously and creates a system that hits people who actually get high electricity bills. There are price ranges of inequalities in Norway, so this will look even, based on which price applies. Finally, Red's story that there are people who travel with the stockings: the stockings go into the state budget and benefit us all. That's why social democracy is hot and sacred for all its time and its entire history has defended public ownership, and that a precisely one should be able to deal with it – that municipalities as owners should be able to take dividends, use it for well-being, culture, school, etc., and that we can also do the same from the state's hand. The state budget had been poorer, we had not had the public ownership of the hydropower. It's a big and important thing we're discussing, and one shouldn't cut it with rhetorical points.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1039	First of all, I would like to agree with the chairman of the committee and thank you for the debate on the issue of housing aid. There has been a constructive debate in which the parties have explained their views on this matter. What made me speak was a small guest appearance here from the representative of Aasland, who is actually launching a budget debate in the Committee on Thursday. However, I would like to take the opportunity to respond to some of the claims, in particular what the representative said about inequality. Right in government together with the Christian People's Party, the Left and our friends in the Advance Party actually made sure over eight years to do more things related to inequality. The integration policy has been renewed, more Norwegians have been trained, better housing policies are under way, and both the introduction programme and the programme that is being received are getting better than before. We have seen to it that more families with poor advice receive housing support. We have made sure that more children get free core time in kindergarten and SFO. There's been an increase in child welfare with the Right in government. It's with Right in Government we've got a housing policy where it's now being built enough – or maybe not enough, because in some cities it's going a little slow because of Labour Party government, but from the government at least let Right up to a good speed in construction. It's also involved in creating less inequality. In addition, we have renewed and strengthened the area deployments. We have also made sure that those who are out of work get a programme we called the inclusion programme, which means that those who have holes in the CV and have been out of work for a long time get a foot within. We have made sure that temporary employment can also be used in such a way that it is better to have one foot within than both outside. All of this was done by the previous government without increasing taxes. When the representative of Terje Aasland invites to a debate on inequality, and the only thing he has to put forward, is an advertisement that the budget of the Workers' Party is more social, without mentioning a single concrete point, I think it's getting a little weak. But now it's housing support, and I'd like to meet Terje Aasland for more debates on both inequality, integration and other things that can contribute to less inequality in society, in a few days. We can keep going now, but I don't know how many minutes we have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1054	Then I steal 30 seconds to a ‘theazer’ for the budget debate on Thursday: Child poverty increased during the previous government. The differences between those who have the most, and those who have the least, increased under the previous government. There were greater differences between living conditions and the rest of the country under the previous government. Housing prices increased dramatically in press areas under the previous government. The representative Kapur boasted of the territorial efforts; I don't know about those who live in the living areas, it feels like the most important thing to make the inequalities in society better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1059	Now I'm not going to extend the debate that much – I'm just looking forward to participating in the local and management committee's budget debate later. Because what really bothers me is that the inequalities have grown in Norway; the differences have increased, and it has become most difficult for those who have the worst advice, the ones we are discussing today, who are dependent on, among other things. housing support. Then, in fact, it's absolutely essential how you set up the big use of money in society. It is about school leisure arrangements, kindergartens, commuting allowances, income taxes, spectacles, holiday money, etc. But it's also about how we deal with crisis situations for ordinary people, and right now it is. The government has come together with a power package – from the additional number on reduced electricity charges, on increased housing support, on support schemes for the students, on housing support again and to the electricity package announced on Friday, which I am absolutely convinced will be considered very accurate and good when it comes to Stortinget. So there is no doubt that the government that is now ruling and ruling the country is taking this situation very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1066	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1085	This is a debate I have been looking forward to. I also have a strong request for other debaters: that we can now try to be constructive and see what is possible, instead of just having verbal fights between ourselves, because it does not increase the chance of getting the airport restored. Even though we are now in the middle of a pandemic that also hits the aviation industry hard, we also have to prepare for the time that will eventually come, when we're done with this terrible pandemic. Most people are going to fly more. Most people are going to want a break from cold periods in Norway, take a vacation to warmer strokes. People are more likely to fly to England to watch football matches. Eastern European workers are going to fly to Norway to work, and the North are going to fly to Eastern Europe for spas and other pleasant weekend trips. Although this pandemic has made business more effective at digital meetings, industry will still need physical meetings in the future, both in Norway and abroad. I am convinced that it is the market for a civil airport in Eastfold when the world becomes more normal. We politicians can't force anyone to fly from Moss Airport Smoking, but our job as politicians is to facilitate the best possible framework conditions. Then it will ultimately be up to us consumers whether we want to use the airport or not. I am strong in the belief in a reopening of the airport, and in recent months I have become even stronger in the faith. A local firessel, Tor-Magnus Siglsten, created towards the end of September Facebook group We want Rygge Airport reopened. In a very short time, this group has received a total of 53,481 followers, and the number is rising sharply. The sailing and action group carried out on 26 November a so-called suitcase action at the terminal building, on which I had the pleasure of participating. Despite bitter cold, a lot of travel-loving people appeared to show their support for reopening. It was song, it was appeals, it was suitcases, it was airplane uniforms, plane liners, coffee, waffles and not least good atmosphere. Unfortunately, there was no opportunity for the state councils or any other large-scale representatives to participate, but I hope more people are participating in the debate today. As one wrote on the Facebook group recently: This Facebook group now has more members than there are inhabitants of Moss. Having a top modern airport that's not being used makes me and a lot of Eastern folds sad. Some have argued against opening up so-called environmental considerations, but I would like to remind you that Moss Airport Smoking is one of the most environmentally friendly airports in Europe. I myself live in Moss and Eastfold and was recently out flying. Then I first had to drive to Gardermoen, then to fly over Eastfold again to get out into Europe. It is completely meaningless, and good environmental policy is not. I also think it is important often to remind this hall that values must be created before they can be distributed. A reopening of the aerodrome may rapidly lead to 1000 new jobs. There are significant tax revenues. But more importantly, there are 1,000 people who can support themselves and their families. Before the election, today's state council was very ready to support reopening. He even said that if he only won the election, Avinor would buy up the airport and start again, and you shouldn't spend time on this, it would happen overnight. Now today's Council of State is General Assembly for Avinor, and I regret to note that the Government's promise is no longer valid, but that now the Council of State wants this to be assessed in the years to come. But that's now the airport is for sale. I was also not more convinced when I saw that the government’s own State Secretary Johan Vasara now had to correct the state council’s statements and say that it is not certain that the government would even want to investigate and assess Rygge. Much has happened around the airport. Much should have been done differently. But we can't leave a top modern, fine airport behind. That's why I look forward to hearing the government's concrete answers to what he's done so far, and what he's planning to do in the future, to reopen the airport we're all so happy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1102	The pandemic causes the framework conditions to change from day to day, and after the representative Wiborg presented this interpellation, the government has had to assess immediate measures, including: to meet the need for a hard hit aviation industry. One of the measures we are proposing is to postpone the reintroduction of the air passenger charge, initially until 1 April 2022. I assume that this is not the temporary exemption for the airline passenger fee the representative Wiborg is looking for, and that we are then in a major discussion. I hope that, first of all, we can agree that the airports operated by Avinor and those operated by others, as a clear rule, will have equal conditions of competition. This means, among other things: that if we are to have an air passenger charge, it must apply in the same way to flights on the Gardermoen, Torp and, where appropriate, Back. An exemption from flights from Rygge would be State aid. Secondly, it follows from the Hurdals platform that the government will take the initiative to replace the current air passenger charge with a charge that has a real climate effect and a better district profile. It is still too early to say specifically how this point will be followed up, but it shows that the airline passenger fee has some aspects that the government agrees that we should consider. It may of course be tempting to remind the representative Wiborg that it was during the government period of the Progress Party and their finance minister that today's air passenger fee was introduced, although of course it should not prevent them from thinking better after they came out of government. As I said earlier, today’s government will take the initiative to replace today’s airline passenger fee with a tax that provides real climate impact and a better district profile. The representative Wiborg also refers to what he calls a reduction of the tax-free system. What he is aiming for is – as I understand it – that the right to replace tobacco quotas on duty-free with up to two bottles of wine, which was introduced on 1 July 2014, is being reversed. His general points have little to do with Rygge. In its draft budget, the Government of Solberg has continued the arrangements that have been in force since 2014, while the new government has proposed to amend this in its supplementary proposal. The background is a request decision The Stortinget made on 20 November 2018, where the government is invited to consider a reversal of the scheme and where the rationale is the effect of the allowance on the sales and position of the Vinmonopolet as one of the main alcohol policy instruments. So it's the Storting that has taken the initiative to change the tax-free system, and it's the government's wish that the Storting has followed up. When it comes to the effects of changes in the economy of airports, I think we're all going to be careful to say something bastant. Right now the pandemic makes estimates practically impossible. If we ignore it, the government in its supplementary proposal acknowledges that the effects on sales volume are uncertain. In the next round it means that no one can say anything certain about what the effect of the conversion will be for a reopening of Moss airport Smoking. As an east fold, there is nothing I want more than the airport at Rygge to open again. Everyone who has followed my statements as a candidate for growth for the Eastfold Workers' Party knows that. My responsibility for the whole thing makes me want to highlight a few things. Firstly, the basic question for Moss airport Rygge as a stand-alone airport is the market base in the surrounding country, i.e. The Eastfold region is sufficient to ensure profitability. These were the basic challenges for the carrier from the opening in 2007 to the cessation of operations in 2016. At the end, the airport had the same framework conditions as the airports of Torp and Gardermoen, and the door hook was set by the introduction of the air passenger charge. The activity at Rygge airport was thus completed during the government period of the Progress Party, where they sat with both Minister of Transport and Finance. There were not many initiatives from the then government to resume the activity at Smoking Airport, either then or in time after. It's of course affordable and an engagement I share that you're now occupied with this, like myself. Secondly, we have the ratio to a third runway on the Gardermo. I have no problem seeing that it seems strange that society is going to spend a lot of money on a new runway on the Gardermo when there is one on the Back anyway. I'm not going to give any defence speech for the third runway here, but I want to say that there are some points that in this way also have to be assessed, and it's about us conducting an investigation of this here, which I have the representative on a previous written question. It's also about how we're developing a good hub for the whole nation, and how traffic forecasts are now evolving.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1125	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I felt the Council of State did not answer what was the essence of my question. What has the Council of State done, and what will the Council of State do? Then the council of state in the trap I warned against, that one will soon get a discussion about what has happened, and when. I am the first to admit that the airline passenger fee should never have been reintroduced six to seven years ago. That should never have happened. That review should never have been given to the Left. But I am equally happy that the Advance Party was pressured by the previous government, and that we had to remove the airline passenger fee almost two years ago. The fact that things have happened before is not an argument for repeating the same mistakes. That's what today's state council does when he now reintroduces the airline passenger fee, a fee that's gone, that doesn't exist today. It doesn't exist. But the first matter of state council Jon-Ivar Nygård and the government is promoting the Storting, is to reintroduce it. So the council says he wants to make it in a more climate-friendly and good way. It's all right, but he's reintroducing it, even though there's been strong warnings from actors who might think of drifting at Moss airport Rygge. So that's the discussion around tax-free. With respect to reporting, when the government adds up and says in its budget proposal that this will result in reduced revenues, including for private airports, it goes without saying that it is more difficult to restart Moss Airport Smoking, when, first of all, they increase their fees and, secondly, they reduce their revenues. I hope, and it is still not too late, that the Council of State can now say that well, there has been a great deal in this matter, very good, very bad, but now we have to look forward, and that the Council of State therefore goes to this pulpit and says that the proposed cuts in the tax-free system and the reintroduction of the air passenger fee are being scrapped, and that the Council of State rather invites a broad cooperation on how we can get Moss airport back back up, and what we can do from a political point of view. It helps very little that the Council of State is now partly defending a new third runway on the Gardermo. There are many years ahead in time, but what I find strange is that a few months ago, the Council of State promised that Avinor would take over the airport and the operation would start almost overnight. Now it's not that easy. But I challenge the State Council again: will the State Council now take the initiative to scrape the reintroduction of the air passenger fee and the reduction of the tax-free system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1138	The representative Wiborg may not have listened particularly well to the signed saying in his post. First of all, the very first thing I said is that we have recently proposed that the air passenger fee be postponed, with effect until April. I also made a very thorough statement in my article that this government has a different view of the air passenger fee, and that we want to find another device on this one that is more climate friendly and more correct than today's system. So we agree, in a way, that this could be a current measure that could also be of use for any new operation on Rygge. I also explained in a relatively thorough manner – at least in this case, and the representative has also received an answer in the past – that this government should set up a sample to investigate the future capacity and the need for Oslo airport. I have stated in writing in response to questions from the representative Wiborg that I will then consider including the conditions of the airport at Rygge in the mandate of that committee. This mandate has not been completed for the time being, but we are working to develop it. I don't have any counter-conceptions, in any way, against the fact that Rygge is once again becoming an aerodrome that's going into service, but it's going to depend primarily on the fact that airlines want to put the airport into service, as the representative Wiborg did. There's nothing in the way now that you can resume Rygge as an aerodrome. Very well known are all the approvals and concessions to operate the airport. So we have a common desire in that way, and so I have no basis to understand that I did not launch any concrete instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1147	I note that the representative, Wiborg, is calling for a constructive approach to the debate and is at all trying to mitigate what has been the role of the Progress Party in the case of Rygge Airport. In his interpellation, in the text that lies ahead in Stortinget, he does not help to dampen this, where he drives with rhetorical points about who met at which meetings, etc. Yes then, I can confirm that sometimes there were people who didn't meet up at Rygge Airport, because I was there in many meetings in 2015–2016 where the Progress Party's government councils, state secretaries and big business representatives flashed with their absence. For that debate they did not want to take part in, as it was the Progress Party itself that made sure that the Rugge Airport disappeared as an offer by introducing the air passenger charge and laying down about 1000 jobs in relation to Rugge Airport. That was what the Progress Party was doing in 2015-2016, and they met very little when that decision was to be defended. In that budgetary agreement, the Limi of the Progress Party was central and was involved in ensuring that the Progress Party in this Chamber voted to introduce an airline passenger fee, which they knew would have consequences for Rygge. Nevertheless, the representatives of the Advance Party pressed the yes button to that draft budget in – as I said – secure assurance that it would lead to the disappearance of Smoking as an aerodrome. The party of progress is characterized by a strong commitment when they are sure that they cannot be held accountable for what they think. When, for example, can be held responsible for what they are involved in, we feel that they are trying to run from it all the time. This is not only the air passenger charge, it has been a tax pick-up from the previous government, where the Progress Party was in, over and over again – shock increases in the sugar charge that are then removed again, it was about plastic bag charges that could not be introduced, it has at all been a heavy tax claim at the Progress Party when they were in government. When they get out of government, they think something quite different – they try to run away from the responsibility they actually had when the increased taxes on electricity, cut glasses for children, increased kindergarten prices, shocked diesel taxes, etc. It's not that kind of jump and jump policy business needs. When pursuing long-term bets, such as: the operation of an aerodrome will require a system in which business can be safe from what is the framework conditions well in advance. One cannot impose charges a late night on the Stortinget, as was the case with the Advance Party and did repeatedly when they were in government. It does not provide business with the predictability they need, for example: to be able to bet on a new operation on Rygge – which I hope we will get. I really hope so, and I'm going to take the representative Wiborg on the floor. I had to say what I had to say, because you can't try to rewrite the story without attending. Having said that, I really hope we see constructive contributions from the Advancement Party. We will see how they support the job that is to be done now, in order to put in place framework conditions that allow us to put in place new activity on Rygge – something the Eastfold society wants, something that the Eastfold Workers' Party has been clear that they want and that we hope we will. As I said, I'm inviting a broad cooperation on it, but then it has to be a safe and good line in it, then the Progress Party has to stop thinking different things about different things every six months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1164	The President would just like to point out that mentioning the government's policy which probably does not belong to the parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1169	Let there be no doubt that the Centre Party and the undersigned share the impatience of the interpellant after reopening the Back Civil Airport. It is good use of resources, and it could provide a long-term and good offer to over 2 million people and businesses in a large region. We also record that there is a great deal of commitment from both action groups, people, municipalities and businesses to re-open up Smoking Civil Airport. The reasons for the closure in 2016 were probably more, although the introduction of the airport charge was used as a justification by the airline that used the airport. That reason was appropriately adjusted afterwards, without which I would dwell more on it. From 2016 until 2021, there have been several actors. It has been worked hard to create operations and activity at the airport – Norway’s most modern airport, otherwise – without success. So it can be attributed to a number of unfortunate circumstances, such as: that Boeing's MAX aircraft were put on the ground all over the world. Then we got a global pandemic, which braked people's travel opportunities. As a result, the conditions have not been the simplest, either for the airport owners or for any actors who could be expected to fly from Back. Today, the terminal building is for sale, and Jotunfjell Partners as owner, who have tried to establish operations in recent years, have given up. It is very regrettable, but not surprising, given the crisis of aviation and travel worldwide. The centre party believes that it is wise to make the best use of the overall resources of society, including in infrastructure. We have therefore programmed that a third runway should not be built at Oslo airport Gardermoen. It will capture large areas and food land, and it is therefore gratifying that the government platform, the Hurdal platform, determines that it should be put on ice until a new investigation has looked at capacity needs. The platform also determines that the Western runway alternative shall be killed. That's good. I therefore believe that the reopening of Smoking requires that we be able to see the airport needs in the East in the context, and not in part and in part. Then it is interesting that this interpellation is raised from a representative whose party, that is the Progress Party, sat with the Minister of Transport continuously from 2013 to 2020. Thus, one had all the prerequisites to ensure the framework conditions for strengthening the profitability of the aerodrome, where airlines after airlines withdrew before it was closed in 2016. The same batch was placed on the steering wheel with the aim of possibly taking action to contribute to reopening for nearly four years after its decision was taken. I note that the party does not succeed in that, and I think, given the crisis in international aviation now, that it is not much easier now. So it's not about whether you can exchange a wine bottle for a tobacco package – with all due respect to report. Finally, what we can fully agree with is that the best thing is whether it again takes off civil aircraft from Back as an offer both to Eastern folds, people in the surrounding country and business, which can have this as its primary, close airport, regardless of whether it stays in private or in public. In that case, the centre part shall be allowed to pull the load.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1186	As an east fold, I'm glad Moss Airport Rygge is on the agenda. This is a matter that involves a lot of people. It is clear that reopening this airport will strengthen our region. It is important for individuals and businesses, and it will contribute to the need for jobs. However, I think it is a little strange that this interpellation comes into such order by the representative Wiborg of the Progress Party. I have also previously stated that today's airport fee was introduced during the government period of the Progress Party, with their finance minister. As you know, the airport charge was the main reason why the airport was shut down. This clearly shows what the previous government contributed to this matter. The Hurdal platform, on the other hand, indicates that we are working to replace today's airport fee with a charge that has a more real climate effect and a better geographic profile. The Hurdal platform also assumes that the future airport capacity in the East is such a large and complex theme that further investigation needs to be carried out. As the representative Wiborg himself had in mind, aviation has been in an exceptional state for the past few years because of the pandemic. How this will affect our travel habits, private and working, we do not yet know. We also have binding climate targets that we must take into account in the overall picture. Moss airport started as a proposal from Eastfold Industrial Offensive and the Society’s Main Organisation. This also shows how this case has a major impact on business. Since the concession was granted to the civil airport, both private and business have benefited from having a regional airport. It also added hundreds of jobs to the region. I therefore believe that all the parties on the Eastfold bench have a desire to reopen Moss airport. This is also one of the reasons why the Eastfold bench from the government parties has already had a constructive dialogue with the actors working for the reopening of Moss airport Rygge. We'll keep doing that. Of course, we want constructive cooperation across the parties, so I very much appreciate that this initiative also takes Wiborg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1201	Moss airport Rygge is a theme that creates great involvement in Eastfold. As rapporteur in Våler, I was delighted to be present at the official opening of the airport on 14 February 2008. Then the optimism was great and the expectations were high as to what the airport was supposed to mean. For us who live in Eastfold, it has been both practical and easy to use the airport at Rygge as a starting point for holiday and leisure trips. Unfortunately, it quickly turned out that it was difficult to obtain an economy in airport operations both for the owners and for the airlines. The airlines disappeared one by one. Civil aviation was closed in 2017, when, as the last airline, Ryanair shut down all its routes from Rygge. The re-disputed air passenger fee was among other things. This is the reason why Ryanair left Rogge. As already mentioned, an air passenger fee was introduced by a government where the Progress Party sat with both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance. Most of us sitting on the east fold bench hope and want it to be possible to reopen the airport. Here I think we have to stand together across the parties. I therefore think today's interpellation from Erlend Wiborg to Minister for Transport Jon-Ivar Nygård is a bit strange in the light of the fact that the Progress Party has been sitting with the Minister for Transport for more than six of the last eight years. What's new, making a reopening of the aerodrome easier to realize now than when the Progress Party put in government? Having said that, I will also contribute to good and constructive cooperation on this issue on the eastern fold, across the parties. The Coronapandemic has contributed to a challenging situation for aviation both in Norway and internationally. I hope and believe, however, that life will gradually normalize itself, and that we will have a new normal place where we can revisit abroad and travel into the world to experience foreign countries and cultures. But we also need to drastically reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We don't have to go back to the custom of going to London to buy Christmas gifts, or to travel around the world again to hold general meetings or short board meetings you might as well be able to do at Teams. The view of the centre party is that Rygge Airport should be reopened and put into service as a Gardermoen relief aerodrome. The plans for a third runway at the Gardermoen should be scrapped. The load on the local environments around Gardermoen is already significant. A new runway will require large areas. More than 3000 covers arable and cultivated land will be lost as a direct consequence of the planned runway. In the Hurdals platform, the government has signalled a new long-term target for the maximum re-disposal of 2000 deer grown land per year. It can only be achieved if we assess in all plans whether there are alternatives before we choose to build up fertile food soils. I would encourage the Council of State to drop the third runway on the Gardermoen and rather to meet any increased capacity needs by using existing infrastructure on the Back. It saves money, it saves food and it reduces greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, there will be positive ring-effects for residents and businesses in Eastfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1216	I put myself absolutely in the line of those who want to smoke happiness to, for all things. Although I am Westfolding and enthusiast for Sandefjord Airport Torp, I am in favour of competition and that there are more players on the market, including in aviation. What I'm most concerned about is that there's a level playing field, and that the non-Avinor airports get good opportunities to live and operate. It has been interesting to follow the debate here. I think there have been some substantial arguments. Plastic bag tax and sugar tax have hardly had any special impact on Rygge's case. I also have to say that when the story of Rygge's case is to be written, maybe not everyone in this room should be writing it – they should read it either. The passenger charge was probably isolated, not the reason for it, but a legal case that took place between Ryanair and their employees, where they attempted to establish a base there. They would try to circumvent Norwegian labour rights. In any case, some of the things that are at least important if others, other than Avinor, are to manage airports in Norway, are to have a good tax-free system. It is a paradox that tax-free taxes on alcohol — and tobacco and perfume, for that matter — are to be an important source of funding for airports. It's definitely a paradox, but now it's the way the world is, and then it has to be made sure that they have good conditions. If the Vinmonopole is to take over the tax-free, as the Centre Party and the SV flags, it will be involved in creating uncertainty about the economy of the aerodromes. Avinor has also stressed that this creates uncertainty. The Solberg government conducted a 30-page investigation of the tax-free system. That investigation looked at the relationship of the tax-free scheme with the EEA and the EEA Agreement and concludes that letting the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free sale is not contrary to the EEA Agreement, it only contributes to creating uncertainty, which is also supported by Avinor. The centre party and SV now have a strong voice in the government, but I hope they do not get a majority for the wine monopoly to take over the tax-free sale. This would make it extremely difficult for other than Avinor to operate airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1228	I'll comment on a couple of the posts. I have not planned to spend much time on the very special post from the representative Lauvås, but I have to say that when he claims that the air passenger fee is the reason why the airport was closed, and then the air passenger fee was removed, then I think it is very strange that the first representative Lauvås does, is to reintroduce this fee, which he thinks is bad at all. But I think there have been more interesting and good posts. In particular, I would like to bring out the representative Ole André Myhrvold's posts, which I thought was very good. Because you have to have a level playing field, which the Council of States was also involved in. It's a vision The progress part parts, to the most extent. We have to remember that both Rygge and Torp are airports that do not receive subsidies, unlike the vast majority of other airports in Norway. I also record that several representatives criticise the undersigned and the Progress Party for raising this issue. I had not expected that – that other representatives from the Østfold bench are skeptical that the Progress Party will raise this issue. On the contrary, everyone should be very happy that we are raising this matter, because I have gone in and seen, and the representative Lauvås and the others on the Eastfold bench have not lifted a finger to address this matter – not promoting any proposal for a representative, not taking up any interpellation, hardly had any written questions. So they've been sitting still, but when the Progress Party raises it, it's more important to attack the Advance Party than to look forward. I am recording a few positive things that have come to the debate, but I am asking the Council of State to clarify two questions in its next article. One is: his own State Secretary was on Airsmart24.no recently and said that it is not decided whether Rygge will be part of the report, as the Council of State has previously claimed. Shall we now listen to the Council of State, or shall we listen to the Secretary of State, who says that this is not decided? Then I have an invitation and an invitation to the Council of State that I hope he here from the pulpit will accept. Will the Council of State join a meeting at the airport together with the action group where we can constructively put the story behind us and see together what we can do to restore this aerodrome? Because I think the steady east fold cares little about us arguing about who has done what, and who does what, etc. What people are actually concerned about is that the airport is being restored. Will the Council of State accept this invitation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1241	I thank you for the debate, for being invited to a constructive debate – there have probably been trends in that, you might say. I choose to respond to the concrete challenges initially. What I said here in the Chamber, and I have answered written questions from the representative of Wiborg earlier, is that I will consider taking Back into the investigation work when we are going to start investigating the airport capacity in the East, that is, the question of a third runway. That's my answer. So to the challenge of meeting these who are actionists. I have nothing against meeting the people who are concerned that Smoking again is going to be an aerodrome from which the planes are taking off. I think there are many of us who think it would have been positive. I share the view that others here have expressed: that there is a lot of social investment there. In this way, it will be for the benefit of society to put these investments into practice. A dilemma that is at least worth mentioning, and which I think everyone here sees, is that in the discussion and the process of exploring a third runway and what it will look like for the future, there will be balances related to the fact that Oslo airport is ‘huben’. Leading a lot of air traffic in there will of course be what makes you get the best possible offer in the rest of the country – without any conclusions from my side now linked to the future of Rygge. Then I repeat that there is nothing wrong with – as far as I can understand – putting the airport back into service, concessions and permits are available. Then I just want to say that there was something unexplained in the debate related to the airline passenger fee. The truth is that no one has removed this; it was put on hold by the previous government, as far as I know. And it's also been put on hold now, because we've been in a difficult situation for aviation. We've said that of course we want to figure out if we're going to have a different device on this for the future. I see that the representative shakes his head; it is possible that the first thing I said now was unpresist – in that case I regret it. My point is that we are going to do some work to look at a different device than the air passenger fee we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1262	The interpellation debate is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1274	It summons the alternate for Nordland, Anette Kristine Davidsen, takes no seat. The size is then ready to go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1580	It's going to be written over I to IV and VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1590	It will be so bitter about V §§ 4-14. Right and Left have notice that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1604	It'll get so wet over the rest of the V all the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1614	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1624	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1636	During the debate, Mr Henrik Olsen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Agreements to the Law amending the Law on Remuneration under Permitment I In the Law of 6 May 1988 No. 22 on compulsory pay during the period of leave, the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3 shall be replaced by the following: An employer is obliged to pay the periodic salary and other compensation of work for a period of 5 days [[employee period 1]] II The Act shall enter into force on 20.12.21.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1665	As there are several people who have made a mistake, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1699	The Progress Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1711	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The Progress Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1726	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1799	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1809	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1847	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e1858	The law decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e3182	A total of three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Mudasar Kapur on behalf of the Right, the Advance Party, the Red and the Left. proposal No 3, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that the proposed exceptional payment of housing aid in December should not be deducted from other benefits already received, or future payments of housing aid.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e3206	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and No 2, from Right, Advance, Red and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 amends the following: Cape. Post Subject matter Krona Expenditure 581 Dwelling and housing measures 70 Housing aid, estimates, is increased by: 236,000,000 from NOK 324 608000 to NOK 3460 608000 Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests the additional payment of housing aid to provide grants to each household for December 2021 of NOK 2 950, and that households composed of several persons receive NOK 120 per person in addition to the first.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-13.ana.ud475e3376	This means that today's maps are ready to be processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
