ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e52	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e59	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meeting this week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg and Heidi Greni. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg and Heidi Greni are unanimously elected as chairpersons for this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e72	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 7 – Unit – will be dealt with before case No. The President therefore asks the representatives to be present until the minutes have been discussed. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e238	The President proposes that Document 8:262 S for 2020-2021 be sent to the Financial Committee, except for proposal 5, which is proposed under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, to be rejected. The representative of Terje Aasland has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e245	We believe that proposal No. 5 is a consequence of the new proposals No. 1-3, and we believe that it should be subject to comitology. I'm asking that it be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e250	The procedure for document 8:262 S for 2020-2021 is contested. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and that of the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e304	The President proposes that Documents 8:226 S for 2020-2021 be sent to the Health and Welfare Committee, except for proposals 1 and 2, which are dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure, to be rejected. The representative of the Bears Moxnes has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e311	I would like to ask that proposal No. 1 shall be sent to committee. It goes into, among other things. state ownership of hospitals and also the composition of hospital boards. There has been no vote on anything like that earlier in Stortinget, so it should be subject to committee procedure, we believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e316	The procedure for document 8:226 S for 2020-2021 is contested. An alternative is to vote between the President's proposal and the proposal of the representative Björn Moxnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e496	What is Norwegian foreign policy? Right now, one morning in April? That's how I started my foreign policy statement two years ago, and it's worth repeating the question, not least because the answer is a little different now. In Brussels, we are working to coordinate our efforts against the covid-19 pandemic with the EU. In Addis Ababa, a cooperation agreement with a human rights organisation is completed. In Stockholm, we work to ensure Norwegian-Swedish border crossing of goods to and from Gothenburg port, which is Norway's most important for exporting and importing containers. In Moscow, Norway’s fishing mission is discussing the management of fish in the Barents Sea with the Russian authorities. In a field in Colombia, a Norwegian-supported humanitarian organisation is about to start removing mines. And in a few hours, in a digital debate at the United Nations Security Council in New York, a Norwegian State Secretary will highlight the African Union's contribution to conflict prevention. The sum of these and thousands of other small and large tasks is Norwegian foreign policy. These actions often have their own dynamics and are due to everything from alliance commitments entered into decades ago to budgetary decisions taken here in the United Kingdom in December. Through this sum of single events, Norway shows us what we mean, what values we stand for, and what way we think the world should go. It has been said that since the turn of the millennium, the world has experienced three major shocks: the 11th of September 2001, the financial crisis in 2008 and the covid-19 pandemic in 2020. One common denominator for the three wide-ranging events was that all three came quite surprising at most. And all three changed the world, albeit in very different ways. Maybe it'll be like this next time too -- that the next event that really changes the world comes pretty surprising to us. Of this, we can learn at least one lesson: Of course, any government will try to anticipate and prepare for possible foreign policy scenarios, but its main task is to build a solid foreign and security policy that can withstand surprising twists and stand over time. In a world that is less secure and predictable than before, our Nordic and European ties are becoming increasingly important. In view of the fact that it is only eleven days since I made the European declaration on important EU and EEA issues, Norway’s relationship with Europe is not part of the foreign policy statement of the year. I refer you to the full statement I gave eleven days ago. However, let me make it clear that Norwegian foreign policy is starting in Europe, and the pandemic has demonstrated that we need to continue to develop and streamline our close cooperation with the EU and the Nordic countries. Europe is also a community of values and interests in which Norway belongs. The virus that was discovered just a little over a year ago has had enormous consequences all over the world. This year's presentation will naturally be about the covid-19 pandemic. Good global health can be seen as a foreign policy stabiliser. The pandemic is a health crisis, but of course it has also triggered a social and economic crisis. It reinforces other crises and has consequences for, inter alia: food security and poverty, which in turn pose an increased risk of instability and conflict. So far, over three million people have lost their lives. Millions of jobs have been lost. The economic downturn is deep and violent in many countries. Trust in global value chains has become a drag. The pandemic is changing the structures of society: work is being moved from offices to people's homes, children are being forced out of school, technology and travel habits are being turned down, some industries are being threatened by collapse, while other industries are being strongly stimulated. Existing inequalities have increased, including between women and men. Vulnerable groups are particularly hard hit. Countries with poor pandemic management lose growth and prestige, while countries that fight the pandemic well gain respect. There are good times for populists and authoritarian leaders who abuse laws and infectious diseases to push human rights and rule of law aside. The pandemic has hit particularly hard where the humanitarian challenges were already great. The total humanitarian appeal of the United Nations has increased by 40 p.m. If development doesn't turn around, we're not going to achieve the sustainability targets by 2030. A global pandemic can only be remedied with a coordinated international response. The pandemic acts as a magnifying glass that shows what works in international cooperation — and where it comes to nothing. In meeting the pandemic, there have been many examples of international organisations and various international coalitions that have made a formidable effort. At the same time, the pandemic has made the weaknesses of international and global cooperation visible, which are neither as effective nor coordinated as we would like. This time the weaknesses in health cooperation were made clear. Similar weaknesses are found in global cooperation against climate change, stability in financial markets, poverty reduction and sustainable development and in several other areas. One of the lessons of this pandemic is that it is urgent to strengthen the global health architecture. But we also need to work to strengthen other areas where the international architecture is too weak. Norway has taken on a leading role in what is currently among the world’s most important tasks: ensuring fair and equivalent global access to vaccines, medicines and tests. Together with South Africa, Norway is the co-leader of the International Coalition for the Control of Coronapandemic, the so-called Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, hereinafter abbreviated to ACT-A. ACT-A has helped to develop vaccine candidates and rapid tests at a pace that the world has never seen before. The vaccine pillar COVAX has so far secured agreements on more than two billion vaccine doses by 2021. The deployment of vaccines through COVAX is under way. Over 38 million vaccine doses are so widely distributed to over 100 countries, and vaccination is under way, among others. Rwanda, Angola, Kenya and Nigeria. We closely cooperate with the EU on the redistribution of extra doses. Global health and vaccines have been at the heart of Norwegian foreign, development and health policies for a number of years. We were among the initiators of the vaccine coalition CEPI and the vaccine alliance GAVI. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has supported the leadership of the World Health Organisation, WHO. We want to strengthen the WHO's leadership role further, while we see that to combat a pandemic, we need cross-sectoral cooperation that goes far beyond the health sector. The WHO has an important role to play in generating new knowledge to limit and reduce covid-19 and future pandemics. In order to achieve this, the WHO must have the necessary trust in all its Member States. It requires increased transparency and more cooperation. Norway is a small market, and a full-scale self-production of medicinal products is not a realistic option. The pandemic has shown us how dependent we are on exports from producing countries and international cooperation for access to infectious agents, vaccines and other medicines. European cooperation will be the cornerstone of Norway’s future preparedness. We need to see the global solutions in the context of the Europeans. The Prime Minister of Italy and the President of the European Commission have invited Prime Minister Solberg to attend a global health summit in the framework of the G20 on 21 May. The main elements of the meeting are the strengthening of global health security and future pandemic preparedness. And perhaps the pandemic increases understanding of the need for policy initiatives in a broader sense than just in the field of health. The United States of America under the Biden Administration has contributed new energy in a number of international cooperation processes – from thinking about a global minimum rate of corporate taxation to talking to emerging economies about increasing climate reduction obligations. In some areas, energy has now been released that could end up building committed international cooperation, in contrast to years when we have spent a lot of energy to prevent the weather and the degradation of multilateral governance. In that case, there is a development we have worked for and will help accelerate. It potentially gives room for constructive diplomacy, where we will look for opportunities to influence new initiatives and structures that are emerging. In the face of global crises, we may be at risk of exaggerating the very unique and historic changes we experience. It is not difficult to find short-term responses of a major political nature, but it is not certain that the geopolitical effects of covid-19 historically become as dominant as we now think we are in the midst of it. As Professor Joseph Nye has reminded us, Spain killed more people than World War I. Nevertheless, the war – not the pandemic – changed the world. For Norway, the security policy landscape does not look fundamentally different today than at the same time last year. Russia remains an important factor in our security policy, the United States is our main ally, and we still need close cooperation with allies and partners in Europe. Foreign intelligence and influence activities remain a significant threat to Norwegian interests. The relationship between Russia and the West remains strained, not least because of a significant gap in value and interest. Political developments in Russia are moving in a clear authoritarian direction, with ever less freedom and stronger represals against oppositional and independent media and institutions. The country's military modernisation continues and is accompanied by strong anti-Western rhetoric. This is worrying, and evolution shows no signs of slowing down. Russia is also our neighbouring country. Common geography gives us common challenges that can best be met together. It is in our interest to have practical cooperation that works, and broad political contact with Russia. Over the past few weeks, Russia has stepped up its tensions in and around Ukraine through the deployment of large military forces. Russia continues to demonstrate its willingness to use military threats to achieve political objectives. At the same time, there has been a sharp increase in the number of truce outbreaks in eastern Ukraine. This is powered by the armed groups provided by Russia with weapons, equipment and personnel. Last week I asked Russia to withdraw its newly deployed military forces and to help the Russian-backed armed groups stop the military outbreaks in eastern Ukraine. Norway consistently supports Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within internationally recognised borders. We do this in different forums, for example: in the OSCE and the UN. We have witnessed for a while significant shifts in particular economic, but I would also say military and political, power. China's position as an emerging power power is no longer a theoretical possibility, it's a fact. The consequences of, and the reactions to, these displacements are now becoming more and more apparent. In recent years, conflict and rivalry between the United States and China have grown into a completely dominant turning point in international policy. The rivalry is going deep, it involves economics, technology, security and ideology, and it seems to be going on for a long time. American action – and Chinese counter-measures – is being rolled out in more and more areas, and this, of course, has consequences for us too, as it does for everyone else. China has experienced enormous economic growth and poverty reduction in recent decades. We need constructive cooperation with China in several areas to address global challenges. Our commitment to China is firm. At the same time, we have to recognise that China is often far away from us. Developments in Hong Kong and Xinjiang are very serious. We call on the Chinese authorities to respect human rights, stop arbitrary detention of Uighurs and other minorities and allow unhindered access to the region of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. Our concern about Xinjiang and Hong Kong has been raised repeatedly with the Chinese authorities, most recently when China's Foreign Minister visited Oslo in August, at political level, but we also deal with it via the embassy and other channels. We also follow China's interests and potential future ambitions in our neighbourhoods. Major powers are also a source of pressure on economic globalisation. Growing protectionism and challenges in the World Trade Organisation can make maintaining existing value chains, technology and critical infrastructure more complicated without going into chords with global free trade. The reduced economic activity of the fourth year led to a decline in global climate change emissions by 2020. However, although the transition from fossil to renewable energy sources is faster than predicted until recently, the impact of climate change on the world is increasingly marked, not least in the Arctic, where warmer climate and melting seas dramatically change the region. Nine percent of the inhabitants of Norway live in the north, and we are thus the country in the world where the largest proportion of the population lives north of the Arctic Circle. Norway now enters the Barents Council in the last six months. The work on knowledge, health, youth and the people-to-people dimension, and not least cross-border trust, is of great importance to us. In the new Northern Region Communication, the government determines that the northern regions are Norway’s main strategic responsibility. Right after that, we're going to deal with the Northern Territory Communication, and I'm sure we'll have the opportunity to elaborate on these points. Covid-19 is not just a health crisis. It's an economic and social crisis, it's a human rights crisis, and it's a crisis for girls and women's rights and equality. The pandemic reinforces the pressure against the human rights that we have witnessed in the last decade – including on our own continent. According to the Swedish Varieties of Democracy, 68 pst lived. of the world's population in autocracies at the end of 2020, against 48 p.m. in 2010. In other words, it has gone in the wrong direction for a while. With covid-19, democratic and rule of law principles have been further challenged. We've seen leaders with authoritarian intentions abuse the pandemic to seize increased power and to crush critical voices. Active disinformation undermines the work of limiting the development of infection in many places. It has also led to increased polarisation and a new wave of hateful statements against marginalised and vulnerable groups in many countries. Growing poverty and lack of schooling make children more vulnerable to violence and abuse. The presence of child labour is increasing. Making sure that children return to school remains a central priority. Girls are particularly vulnerable — the UN estimates that an additional 11 million girls will have to quit school as a result of covid-19. We have seen a serious increase in gender-based violence and violence in close relations around the world. Child marriage, maternal mortality and the number of unwanted pregnancies are increasing. The pandemic has also worsened the situation of people with disabilities. The image is dramatic, and it's sympathetic, even though there are some points of light. From the outset, we have maintained that all contributions to post-pandemic reconstruction must have human rights and a gender perspective in focus. The government has elevated the inclusion of disabled people, and next year will host a summit, the Global Disability Summit, together with civil society. We are continuing the close cooperation on human rights promotion with a number of civil society organisations. We provide flexibility on our part, so that our partners can adapt and protect MR defenders, outsiders and vulnerable groups on the ground. We take the fight internationally for women's participation in economic and political decisions and for women's and girls' human rights both under and after the pandemic, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. The latter has already become a little bit easier since the United States got a new administration. The rapid abolition by the Biden administration of the so-called Mexico City policy, against which Norway has expressed strong opposition, was a very important signal both politically and practically. I look forward to the fact that we can now go from using most of the resources and energy to defending established rights and fighting setbacks to promoting and strengthening the global normative perspective. Working with freedom of expression is a central foreign policy priority. For if there is one thing the pandemic has reminded us of, it is the value of freedom of expression – both in itself, as a precondition for democracy and as a means of protecting and promoting other rights. In the summer, the government will present a new and up-to-date international strategy for freedom of expression that will clarify Norwegian priorities. The strategy will focus on media pluralism and freedom of the press, the security of journalists, digital security and freedom of expression for women and girls, minorities and artists. In view of the serious situation of human rights globally, I would like to highlight the new Penal Code that came into force last Friday. The law means that we can now quickly and effectively implement EU restrictive measures, which Norway ends up with, in Norwegian law, including economic freeze measures. This applies, inter alia, to: The new EU sanctions regime against serious human rights violations. The pandemic has led to a worsening of the global humanitarian situation. Never before have we witnessed such a dramatic increase in humanitarian needs. This year, a total of 235 million people need protection and humanitarian assistance. If they were inhabitants of one country, it would be the world's fifth largest country. That is why the government has a record humanitarian support of 6.3 billion. SEK 2021 increased the effort for, among others, the protection of civil, food security and human response in refugees from crises and conflicts. We were out early last year and this year with the disbursement of nuclear aid to the UN humanitarian organisations and to the UN Emergency Aid Fund. It is important to ensure that organisations have predictability and flexibility to respond to very rapidly changing humanitarian needs. Support for the World Food Programme, WFP, has increased significantly, from 300 million. to 800 million. kr in core aid, and to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, from 380 million. to 680 million. kr in core support. With this, we contributed, among other things, to enable the WFP to discharge its global responsibility for the logistics and transport of emergency services despite decommissioning and other obstacles. We have also given the Norwegian humanitarian organisations greater flexibility to re-prioritise efforts according to where the needs are greatest. The refugee aid, Norway's Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid, Norwegian People's Aid, Redd Barna and Caritas have recently been paid $1.7 billion. kr for their humanitarian work in 2021. By the end of the year we will have delivered at the promised government gave at the International Conference on Sexual and Gender-Based Violence in Humanitarian Crisis Situations that was arranged in Oslo almost two years ago. There we announced 1 billion. in humanitarian aid for enhanced protection against so-called SGBV and increased access to sexual and reproductive health services in areas in crisis. The pandemic has demonstrated the importance of Norway’s emphasis on unbound core support to international organisations. Such flexible funding has helped to open up multilateral power take-offs against covid-19, which will be central to relaunching the wheels in many poor countries and to counter major backlashes in the work on sustainability targets. It has been ten years since the so-called Arab Spring began, with consequent consequences for many countries in the region. In Syria, tragedy developed as we all know. For ten years we have witnessed incredible human suffering, destruction and brutality. A generation of young acids have lost both schooling and opportunities. Over half a million people are killed, and over twelve million acids have had to flee their homes. During these years, Norway has been addressing the Syrian population through the largest Norwegian humanitarian effort ever made by Norway. Since 2011, Norway has given over 15 billion. assistance to Syria and the neighbouring countries of Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. Norway remains the world’s most humanitarian country for the Syria crisis. In 2021, we're going to contribute a further 1.6 billion. assistance to Syria and neighbouring countries for refugees and internally displaced persons to meet their basic needs and health and education rights. It has also been ten years since Norway took part in the operation in which the UN Security Council gave mandates to protect the civilian population from attacks by the Gaddafi regime in Libya. Developments in the years following the international campaign have not been as desired. The lack of common institutions has affected both the security and the supply of public services to a hard-to-tested population. Various militias, foreign fighters and armed groups have fought for control of land and resources. Illegal trafficking in human beings, smuggling and proliferation of Libyan weapons stocks have led to increased destabilization of the region. Like Syria, the conflict in Libya has been internationalised with interference by regional and international actors. These have placed soldiers in Libya and despite the arms embargo imposed by the UN. There's now some positive development in Libya. In March, a Libyan national assembly government was given the confidence of a parliament that met for the first time in many years. The interim government will prepare Libya for the presidential and parliamentary elections on 24 December of this year – on the day 70 years after Libya gained its independence. Norway gives its full support to the Libya political process ahead, and the work of the United Nations in that country. Many challenges will face the Libyan leaders in the future. The road may become demanding. I'm going to have a digital meeting with Libya's new prime minister at the beginning of next week and I'm going to pass on Norway's support there. Following the revolution in Sudan in 2019, the country is still in the midst of a transition process. Although the challenges are many, Sudan is taking important steps in a necessary reform process to normalise its relationship with the international community. Norway contributes with allies and friends. Developments in the Middle East have a direct impact on Europe and Norway. We experience that, among other things. with the refugee flows and through the fight against ISIL. Norway continues to commit itself to creating lasting peace solutions in many of the Middle East conflicts, including Syria, Libya, Yemen and not least the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The landmarks of our own security policy are to a large extent firm. Let me point out three of them: committed international cooperation, strong transatlantic ties and close cooperation in Europe. As before the pandemic, Norway is still best served by an international legal order, whereby agreements and binding cooperation bind the major acts in important areas. The non-proliferation agreement is the groundwork of the multilateral disarmament and non-proliferation regime. The 2010 Supervisory Conference highlighted three principles for disarmament: transparency, verification and irreversibility. Norway has taken international responsibility for promoting the work of verification, and we are also going to lead the second UN expert group on this after leading the first. The effort for verification will be an important contribution to the next NPT Conference of Supervisors. Norway will also take the initiative to develop a common understanding of what the principle of irreversibleity means in practice. This is about the fact that across countries, we need to agree on what is required in order to have confidence that an effective disarmament of nuclear weapons cannot be reversed. As with the verification work, we believe that this is a field in which states can cooperate, where we can bring new give to work on disarmament and not least counteract polarization. In recent months, the United States has shown its willingness to re-engage in disarmament and arms control work. The five-year extension of the New START agreement was a good decision. It allows time to further develop the agreement, increase the level of ambition and include new countries in it. We need an agreement that includes all types of nuclear weapons. And we need further reductions in the number of nuclear weapons. There will be no simple task, but it is positive that the will to try is present, and Norway is ready to assist. It is worrying that countries such as Russia and China have contributed to an increase in the arms pressure. We regard the United Kingdom's new review of security and defence policy as a response to this, and it is not a desired development. We have also communicated our view to the United Kingdom. Technological developments have made it possible to develop weapons not covered by the existing works of agreement. A new, effective arms control regime depends on the major acts agreeing on agreements reflecting the new security, military and technological reality. The Americans choose their president themselves, but there is little doubt that the elections are of great global importance, and also for us. The new administration emphasises international cooperation and coordination with allies and friends. The Biden will clean up the United States of America in global health work, and the United States remains a member of the World Health Organisation. Both are important. Biden quickly took the United States back into the Paris Agreement, and he has invited Prime Minister Solberg and 40 other international leaders to his own climate summit on Thursday this week. And the level of ambition in climate policy is high. The government wants to strengthen Norway’s cooperation with the United States in both climate and health matters, both bilaterally and in various international engagements. We have been early to engage in dialogue with the Biden Administration on common interests and opportunities for such cooperation. Most important to us is our close security cooperation with the United States. There is no doubt that the United States is our most important ally. We cooperate closely, both bilaterally and through NATO. Nevertheless, the government believes that there is room for further strengthening and modernisation of bilateral cooperation. At the same time, we want to renew and strengthen American engagement in NATO. When the ties to the United States have been so close over so many decades, it is because we have a relationship that is not just built on common interests and a long history. It is also built on common democratic values. There is no reason to hide that these values were challenged after the presidential elections in November. There was a systematic undermining of the election results that culminated in the storming of Congress on 6 January. For Norway and other democratic countries, it was important to make it clear that there was an unacceptable attack on democracy and that the duplicating president had a considerable political responsibility for what happened. Norway and the United States have negotiated an additional defence cooperation agreement. It modernises and complements the agreements we already have. This additional agreement, the Supplementary Defence Cooperation Agreement, abbreviated to SDCA, is an important contribution to the government's efforts to strengthen the defence of Norway. The agreement was approved by the State Council on Friday. The defence of Norway takes place along three main lines: national defence, NATO collective defence and bilateral support and reinforcement from close allies such as the United States. The core of this defence concept is that allies practice and train with us regularly, and preferably with Norwegian forces. In this way, the security guarantee and reinforcement become credible. The alternative to strengthening Norway in crisis and war would be permanent, allied presence. It would not be in line with Norwegian interests, and it would be contrary to basic policy. That's why we're making sure that allies can strengthen us if necessary. It is done through practice, training, pre-storage and investment – key elements of Norwegian security and defence policy over many decades. We work all the time to further develop, modernise and update our cooperation with our allies. The agreement we have negotiated confirms the close relationship and more than 70 years of good security cooperation between Norway and the United States in the framework of NATO. It also shows the important position Norway has as NATO in the north. The government is pleased that we have reached an agreement with the United States on this agreement. In practice, it means that we are facilitating relevant reconciliation with the United States, and that the United States is even better able to support Norway in crisis or war. It is important for Norway’s safety and for Norwegian interests. The agreement facilitates US military activity in Norway and allows the United States to make investment in infrastructure in Norway. It is the Norwegian authorities that assess and approve allied activity in Norwegian soil, in Norwegian airspace and in Norwegian waters. It will still apply to American military activity. The agreement we have concluded does not imply any changes to key security policy principles. It has been a fundamental prerequisite for the government to conclude the agreement. The agreement explicitly states that Norwegian basic policy applies. It will not be appropriate to open up bases for foreign fighting forces in Norway in peacetime. Similarly, the agreement states that Norwegian nuclear and call policy applies. We will present both an consent proposal and a legislative proposal in the harvest session, where the Storting will take a decision on the agreement and the necessary legislative changes. NATO's military strength rests on political cohesion. Therefore, the Alliance launched a reflection process after the London Leadership Meeting in 2019. The process has created an important debate both on priorities and on how NATO can be revitalised as a political consultative forum. Under the heading of NATO 2030, Secretary-General Stoltenberg has continued this discussion with concrete proposals on how to change and strengthen NATO as a political alliance. NATO 2030 will be a major event at the summit later this year. The government welcomes the debate in NATO. We are open to concrete measures to strengthen the alliance, with new meeting formats and more frequent meetings at political level. The Secretary-General has also proposed a significant strengthening of co-financing. It's a proposal we carefully evaluate, and that's for discussion in the alliance. First of all, it is positive that by 2030, NATO has focused on how the alliance will address new security challenges such as climate change, new technologies and hybrid threats. This will be followed by a clear signal from the summit to start work on revising the strategic concept of NATO. Today’s strategic concept dates from 2010 and is not adapted to today’s security policy situation. 20 years ago, Article 5 of NATO came into force for the first and only time in response to the terrorist attacks in the United States on 11 September. The Trump administration took a decision to withdraw US forces from Afghanistan by 1 May of this year through the agreement with the Taliban to start peace negotiations between the Afghan Government and the Taliban. The Biden administration has now reviewed the policy for Afghanistan and, at the joint Foreign and Defence Ministerial meeting in NATO last week, it was decided to withdraw all military forces from Afghanistan. It shall start on 1 May and shall be completed during September of this year. This is a decision the government fully supports – we went into Afghanistan together, and we go out together. ISAF, which was later replaced by the Resolute Support Mission, is NATO's largest operation since its formation in 1949. It's now going into the final phase. NATO has started some time since the planning of how the extraction of the force will take place. For Norway, it has always been a prerequisite for the extraction to take place in a clean and coordinated manner. The Taliban has signaled that they can now attack allied forces. In the future, our main priority will be the security of Norwegian forces. We are faced with demanding issues, and we are in the choice of more or less poor solutions. We and our allies have sacrificed human lives and spent a great deal of money creating a stable and forward-looking Afghanistan that does not pose a future threat to terrorism against the outside world and that upholds fundamental human rights for its inhabitants. Much has been achieved in the last 20 years, but at the same time, developments in Afghanistan have continued to be hampered by conflict. The Afghans themselves must own and lead a process towards peace. In addition, regional actors have an important role to play. In the peace process, we are working to ensure that the results achieved over 20 years are preserved as far as possible — especially women’s rights, girls’ right to school and the inclusion of ethnic and religious minorities. While NATO is preparing for the withdrawal of its forces, diplomatic efforts to reach a peace agreement between the parties continue. There are no simple or risk-free solutions in the future, but the conflict cannot be resolved militarily. In Doha, where peace negotiations take place, we are assisting with the UN and a small selection of country Qatar in their host role and are present with a small team. In order to ensure continued positive development in Afghanistan, it is important to maintain a high level of assistance. It assumes that society continues to be built on values we can identify with, and that clear progress is being made in the fight against corruption. We must be prepared for the international community to be faced with quite demanding compromises in the future. The Paris Agreement is a framework for international cooperation required for the necessary reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. But the job was not done in Paris, and the cooperation under the agreement needs to be strengthened. The EU, China, Japan and South Korea set new climate targets in 2020. Business actors and investors are increasingly drivers, and the United States now has great ambitions. It provides a basis for hope. The Intergovernmental Conference on Climate Change in Glasgow in November needs to strengthen ambitions in order to achieve the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement – and for the implementation of the Agreement. Unfortunately, we see that only about 40 pst. by the countries signing the Agreement have delivered updated or reinforced targets. It is important that all countries, and in particular the large emitters, update or report new targets as soon as possible. Norway was early out there and strengthened our objective under the Paris Agreement as early as last February. We strengthened our goal strongly, from at least 40 pst. cut by 2030 to at least 50-55 pst. compared with 1990. The government's climate plan presented in January is a shift in Norwegian climate policy. At the same time, Norway shall continue to take its share of the responsibility to assist poor countries with climate finance. It is the most vulnerable to climate change. Last week, the government launched a new strategy for climate adaptation, prevention and hunger reduction in developing countries. There we will, among other things: contribute to the prevention of hunger and food-related crises by strengthening early warning mechanisms, combined with financial support when alerting a crisis. The oceans and marine industries are going to play a key role in the repatriation of the global economy. Strong international blue-green sea cooperation is therefore more important than ever. At the end of 2020, the High Level Panel on Sustainable Marine Economy launched its conclusions. The marine panel is an example of innovative multilateralism. On the initiative of Prime Minister Solberg, 14 Heads of State or Government from all over the world have met and formed a kind of ‘coalization of willing’ to embark on an ambitious maritime policy. Panel countries have committed themselves to introducing a planned, sustainable management of 100 % of their marine and coastal areas under national jurisdiction by 2025. At the same time, the Panel encourages all other coastal states to ensure the same by 2030. It will literally involve a watershed in securing clean, healthy and productive seas for future generations. Government is committed to preserving the sea in order to ensure future use and sustainable economy. The organisation of the work of the Maritime Panel, with the close interaction between policies, management, experts and external environments, can be presented as a successful example of innovation in international cooperation. This has resulted in new and important knowledge both of the seriousness of the state of the sea’s health and of the importance of the sea for human well-being and of the global economy. In a demanding international landscape, the working method of the Maritime Panel may be a model in other areas as well. This type of coalition may be an addition to the established multilateral structures. In this way, effective forms of cooperation can be developed that can be lifted into the established multilateral system over time. As a large port, we have a lot to gain from taking responsibility and leading the international work for the healthy and productive seas. We work, among others. establishing a global agreement against marine pollution. Norway is now on the board of both the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, and the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPCW. We're going into the last six months as a board member of the IAEA. As one of its prime tasks, the Agency has to verify that nuclear technology is only used for peaceful purposes. Even through the pandemic, the Agency has been able to maintain its inspection activities worldwide. The inspections carried out by the IAEA are central to the nuclear agreement with Iran, JCPOA. The IAEA has continuously reported on new actions in the Iranian nuclear programme that are contrary to the agreement. Norway has expressed deep concern about Iran’s non-compliance and the decision to enrich uranium against 60 pst. is probably a disturbing step in the wrong direction. Norway believes that the nuclear agreement – which is intended to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon – is important for regional and international security. The discussions currently taking place in Vienna right now show that the parties are willing to explore options for the US return to and Iran's full compliance with the nuclear agreement. These are very difficult discussions, which can take time. We encourage the parties to continue the dialogue. The inspections of the IAEA will also be crucial if a political solution with North Korea can be found at some point. An international, independent and credible control system supports the work of the Security Council on policy solutions. We use the Steering Board to support the work of the IAEA and underline the independence of the Director-General and the integrity of the inspection regime. The two-year period of Norway as a member of the OPCW Executive Board started last May. The OPCW agenda is still marked by the use of chemical weapons in Syria and the poisoning of Aleksei Navalnyi. Russia and their like-minded work actively to weaken OPCW’s management and Secretariat’s authority and legitimacy. Norway has expressed full confidence in the OPCW both in the Executive Board and in the Security Council, and we continue to give full support to the work ahead. Together with 57 other countries, Norway joins a joint opinion that unequivocally condemns the use of a chemical weapon against Navalnyi. We are also working for a decision at the State Party meeting for the Chemical Arms Convention that takes place this week, to deprive Syria of some rights under the Convention. The proposal for a decision is justified in that OPCW has found reasonable grounds to believe that Syrian air forces were behind the use of chemical weapons on three different occasions in 2017. Last week, OPCW presented a new report on a case of chemical use in February 2018, and they again found reasonable grounds to believe that there were Syrian air forces behind it. We work for the OPCW and the IAEA to function properly, and they have the resources that are needed. In the Security Council, we consistently give full support to the integrity and independence of the IAEA and OPCW. Norwegian interests are promoted through a world-wide rule-based order and internationally committed cooperation. Our place in the UN Security Council, the IAEA and the OPCW are important venues for the work on international peace and security. I am very pleased with Storting's interest in Norway's membership of the Security Council, and in line with the decision in February, part of the year's report will address this issue. I also refer to the statement I made about the Security Council last December, and there will also be an explanation for the autumn. In the Security Council, the pandemic continues to shape the work, both in form and content. It's still so long virtual meetings that are the main rule, and I think we're all looking forward to the day we can once again gather around the table in the Security Council room. Despite new forms of work and the constraints it imposes on diplomatic work, the Security Council has maintained a high level of activity. UN Secretary-General António Guterres spoke early during the pandemic of a global ceasefire as a contribution to the pandemic. The last covid-19 resolution of the Security Council calls for real armaments and increased humanitarian access and security for the population. Through our networks and through our role as organisers, we encouraged parties in conflict to conclude such humanitarian weapons rest. In the Philippines, the parties temporarily stopped fighting, while in Colombia there were positive humanitarian consequences for the ELN guerrilla to take a first step in the same direction. Norway has also contributed to humanitarian dialogue between parties in some conflicts, such as in Venezuela. However, the results of the Secretary-General’s appeal are unfortunately far from sufficient, and access to vaccination in conflict areas remains a key challenge. The pandemic raises the issue of conflict and hampers the peace efforts of the parties. Norway has given priority to maintaining its peace diplomacy in order to contribute to progress in various peace processes. In fact, increased use of digital platforms has lowered the threshold for the inclusion of different social groups in dialogue and peace processes. It's a positive trend, which we're taking with us and based on even when the pandemic is over. A key Norwegian priority in the Security Council is to increase the acceptability of climate change and security. This work has been given anew this year, not least because of the high-level meeting on 23 February, in which many Heads of State and Government participated, including Prime Minister Solberg. The debate showed that there is some more positive dynamics in this area, mainly due to the new administration in the United States. But it is also due to the broad commitment of most of the elected members of the Council. Many of them are themselves directly affected by climate-related safety threats. I have previously referred to climate change as a threat multiplier, i.e. a factor that strengthens existing conflicts, but that can also help create new ones. In his speech, the Prime Minister pointed out a vicious circle: climate change undermines conflict management, and conflict weakens resilience to climate change. The majority of the Security Council members recognise this link. However, a small number of Council members consider that this sets limits on the area of competence of the Security Council and questions the relationship between climate change and conflict. Norway believes that the Security Council needs to strengthen its information and decision-making base, through, for example, regular briefings from the UN Secretary-General. The Secretary-General should also appoint his/her own Special Representative for Climate and Security. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has cooperated with the NUPI and SIPRI research institutes, which will provide the Security Council with a better evidence base on climate and security for this work, and in 2022 Norway will lead the informal expert group on climate and security. This work is very long-term, and the only way we can get through is to be thorough and have well documented suggestions. But we see that it's useful. In January, the Security Council extended its mandate to the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus. As a result of Norwegian efforts, reference was made for the first time to the impact of climate change and the environment as part of the dialogue between the parties. It is a reality that the Council dynamics have been challenging for a long time. But our impression after four months as a member is that there is now a more constructive atmosphere in the Security Council than it has been for a long time. A new American administration, which expresses increased willingness to cooperate and commitment, is part of this positive development. This year, in addition to a resolution on covid-19, the Council adopted resolutions on Cyprus, Sudan, Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia, the Central African Republic, North Korea and Libya. In two of these, which concerned the extension of the Yemen sanctions regime and the adjustment of the level of strength of the United Nations peacekeeping operation in the Central African Republic, only one member of the Council has abstained. The rest have been unanimous decisions. Often, the value and effect of an overall safety council will mean more than the value of individual formulations in a decision. The fact that the members of the Security Council have managed to gather two joint opinions on the situation in Myanmar after the military coup is such an example, and perhaps in particular the presidential opinion condemning the use of violence against peaceful demonstrators. It was not given at all that the Security Council would reach agreement – it has been more than ten years since the Council expressed its opinion on the political situation in Myanmar. All Council members, including Russia and regional actors such as China, India and the ASEAN member Vietnam, support the opinions. It is of far greater importance than if Western countries alone had expressed themselves outside the Council. At the same time, we see that the situation on the ground in Myanmar continues to deteriorate. Hundreds have been killed by the security forces, several thousand have been injured, and several thousand have also been imprisoned. The military regime has recently stated that the one-year state of emergency it introduced on 1 February may be further extended to up to two years. In this case, the regime refers to democratic elections as equivalent. In parallel, the charges against Aung San Suu Kyi will continue to increase to an extent. Developments are very worrying. Norway is working to keep Myanmar on the agenda, and we have called for a Council to examine what further measures the Council can take. Norway has frozen the State-to-State programmes for professional cooperation between Norwegian and Myanmar public institutions, but at the same time we maintain peace and democratisation, human rights and humanitarian aid. The Tigray region in Ethiopia is another acute conflict Norway has contributed to putting on the Security Council agenda. Norway has had a clear voice to stop fighting, secure humanitarian access, provide life-saving assistance and protect civilians. There are deeply alarming reports of possible war crimes and crimes against humanity that must be followed up with independent investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators. The situation has cross-border implications that threaten regional security. We are working to ensure that the Security Council, in cooperation with the African Union, can influence the parties to the conflict to find solutions that could de-scale the situation and provide a basis for internal reconciliation in the country and with neighbouring countries. Since November last year, Norway has granted over DKK 100 million as a humanitarian response to the crisis in Tigray. In our contributions to the Security Council, we come up with calls and recommendations to authorities, conflict parties and the international community. We pay particular attention to emphasising the protection of civilians, including children, women's participation and rights in peace processes and security challenges reinforced by climate change. The fact that we and other countries address these issues means that they are more likely to become part of the Council's decision-making base. We have been strengthened to ensure women, peace and security in several written products. We also work to strengthen languages on sexualised violence against women, civil and climate protection and security in both presidential opinions and renewals. In March’s decision by the Security Council of a resolution renewing the Yemeni sanctions regime, Norway worked – and succeeded – to bring in the first listing of sexualised violence in this sanctioning regime. And we've taken on heavy executive duties. We chair the Sanctions Committees for North Korea and for ISIL and Al Qaida, and we lead the Children's and Armed Conflict Working Group. These are challenging tasks, but also a declaration of confidence by the other members of the Security Council. At the same time, Norway takes special responsibility for following up the situation in Afghanistan and the humanitarian situation in Syria. This is an important task, but they are also demanding. By taking up these tasks, we will promote both Norwegian priorities and contribute to issues that are important for international peace and security. Together with Estonia, Norway headed in March to join the Security Council in condemning targeted attacks against civilians in Afghanistan. The work on reaching agreement in the Security Council is sometimes demanding and in individual cases there may be a great deal of distance between the various members. Our room for action in the Security Council is also conditional on the positions of the other members. However, we work purposefully to create a positive movement, especially in those matters that are highly priorityed by the Norwegian side. The ability and willingness of the Security Council to respond is determined by the sum of the will of the 15 members of the Council at all times. In addition, many matters dealt with by the Council require consensus. The exemption is a resolution decision requiring at least nine votes in favour and no veto from the permanent members. Finding common solutions also means making – and accepting – compromises with the 14 other members. A processed product, whether it is a resolution, a presidential opinion or a press release, promoted jointly will have greater impact than the alternatives, which will either be a shared Security Council, or even worse: a silent and debilitated Security Council where we end up promoting our primary message alone or with like-minded members – outside the Council. In this context, it is important to stress that although the members of the Security Council do not always succeed in reaching agreement, this remains the main pattern. The first months of the election of a member of the Security Council show that it is possible to have an impact on, and support for, Norwegian priorities in the Council's ongoing work and decision-making. When I gave last year's presentation, there may not have been so many of us who saw that just one week later, borders and airspace would be closed, land entering port bans and planes all over the world would be put on the ground. On 14 March last year, the U.D. issued a global travel council: for the first time in history, all journeys that were not strictly necessary were dismissed from all countries. Norwegian citizens on a trip were told to travel home in a safe and quiet manner. From many places this was easier said than done. To help the airlines on the wings in a difficult situation, the aircraft home system was established. It was a cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Transport and stated that the State guaranteed the expenditure of the airlines in the implementation of scheduled routes and charter flights. The individual traveller paid for his own ticket, but we made sure that the flights could be carried out. During some hectic weeks around 6,500 passengers traveled on 51 flights safely home from, among others. Morocco, Spain, Turkey, Brazil, Nigeria, Ghana, Pakistan and Cyprus. Consular assistance is an important part of the external service’s remit. The question I opened with – what is Norwegian foreign policy? – can, of course, be answered in many different ways. By referring to our interests, values, and our history, or by an explanation of almost an hour, we can show how we work for Norway. At the same time as I am standing here on the Spokesman's Chair, Norwegian foreign policy is practiced in practice. In Yangon, employees at the embassy assist the Northmen who will leave Myanmar in the wake of the military coup. In Geneva, our UN delegation is preparing for digital consultations on the reform of the World Health Organisation. And both here in Oslo and in a number of other cities in the world, we continue to promote Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e742	At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the President will organise the debate as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Centre 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Green Party 5 minutes and the Green Party 5 minutes, and the Red Party 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e749	The report we are dealing with today concerns the north, but concerns the whole country. In addition to Svalbard, northern Norway and the northern seas are the main strategic responsibilities of Norway. Therefore, I am pleased that we have been able to process a message that has taken this area seriously. I would like to thank the government for a good and clear report on growth, which provides the basis for a forward-looking north-eastern policy. Recordings have been made in dialogue with municipalities, municipalities, the Sametinget and key actors in business, organisations and knowledge institutions in the north. As the Communication explains, the government has done a large amount of work. There are gathered input from organisations and actors in the north who know what challenges exist in the continent and what the region needs. I would like to highlight in particular the fact that a separate youth panel has been set up that has made its recommendations, which is attached to the Storing Communication itself. I would also like to thank actors who have contributed during the consultation and with other recordings along the way, and who have thus provided valuable assistance in our deliberations on the communication. The other parties in the Committee also deserve a thank-you for their commitment and cooperation. It is natural that different parties will focus on different questions and make their own priorities. Equally, I think we've managed to get together and with common understanding in the main areas, we kept the good starting point of government. The notification bears the name ‘Humans, Opportunities and Norwegian Interests in the North’ and gives a good picture of its extent. One leg is the security policy that embraces the issue of Norwegian sovereignty, presence and deterrence. This is the very basic plan of our north-eastern policy. The overall objective of policy in the north is to ensure peace, stability and predictability. In addition, we are to provide comprehensive and sustainable management. The question of safety and sovereignty is closely linked to the population development in the part of the country: without human beings — no presence. Norway is distinguished from the rest of the Arctic by having the highest proportion of the population living north of the Arctic Circle. This is a characteristic we have to take care of. This forecast is also the first of its kind to actively support the issue of population development as an independent element. Then we have to be clear that North Norway is a place of opportunity. Although there has been a worrying decline in the population in the north lately, there is every reason to be cautious optimists. In both natural resources, nutrient base, culture and well-being opportunities, there are inexhaustible opportunities in the north. We see today an increasing attention on the Arctic globally. It's a force, but also something to be on guard for. It is essential that Norwegian interests should lead and be supported by our policies. At that time, it is essential that the North Region policy facilitates the creation of businesses, businesses, jobs and sustainable exploitation of natural resources and opportunities in the north. I would like to highlight some of these from the Communication and the Committee's position that I believe is particularly central. Firstly, the government shall have the privilege of listening to entrepreneurs in the north and opting for the establishment of a capital fund for start-up enterprises. The fact that this fund is to be managed from the north seems particularly promising. We look forward to further mention of the facility on the fund, which will be included in the revised national budget. And then, for natural reasons, some industries are central to the region. Maritime and fisheries resources represent invaluable resources for jobs, exports and industrial innovation. The professional environments and competences in the north are unique in these industries. It is through North Norway that we as countries will be able to maintain our position as world leaders in fish and fisheries management through sustainable technological development. It is our ambition that a greater part of the production chain should be driven from the north, which in turn requires increased investment in vocational education and training in North Norway. Another industry that I want to highlight is space travel. International attention is growing on opportunities for this industry in the north. For our preparedness and security too, it is vital that we further develop the competence and activity in the field of space. For example, I want to do this. draw attention to the fact that the world's largest polar satellite station is operated from Svalbard. Both in NATO and in the EU there are exciting initiatives in space, and our environments of competence in the north need to be able to grow within such international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e776	The northern regions are Norway’s most important peace project – not because today the northern regions are affected by dissatisfaction and instability, but because peace and stability do not come naturally. Continuous political effort is needed to build and maintain peace and stability in our neighbourhoods. A lot is changing in the world, but the geography is solid, and Norway, we're lying where we are. Norway just means – the road to the north – and it's in the north we meet the world, and that's where we can really affect development more than anywhere else. The Arctic is a geopolitical centre of gravity, resource, climate and military strategic. Norwegian initiatives in the northern regions are important both for local communities, for Norway as a whole, for the region and for the world. Yes, the northern regions mean a lot to our entire country, with enormous opportunities in agriculture, energy, minerals, travel and industry. Therefore, the northern regions are not only Norway’s main strategic area of interest, but the construction and maintenance of peace and stability in the northern regions is Norway’s main peace project. Our neighbourhood to Russia must be based on both firmness, predictability, clarity, transparency, constructive dialogue and practical cooperation. We must join our allies and our European partners in meeting violations of international law, but as a neighbouring country, it is in Norway's interest to maintain continuous communication and contact with Russia, not least in difficult times when we encounter an increasingly self-reliant Russia. Today, seven years and three months have passed since a Norwegian foreign minister visited Moscow. Today it is not possible, but it is still too long. The task of foreign policy is to make domestic policy possible. This postulate is so absolute for Northern Region policy, but the interrelationship between foreign and domestic policies can go both ways. It means something for Norwegian foreign policy, for our position in our own neighbourhoods, that people live in East Finland, and that the Norwegian state is clearly present in East Finland. I probably supported the representative Schou's claim here that this was the first big message that had an element that we were going to increase the population in the north. Is this something new that has been invented by this government? We have always thought that it is a very important interest for Norway, not least strategically, but this government has not succeeded in this project. Because under this government, the county capital of what was once Finnmark experienced a population decline of 9.3 p.m.Oh, my God! That's dramatic numbers. Well, then, it kind of doesn't work with visions. The security landscape around us changed seven years ago. It is absolutely necessary to strengthen defence in North Norway with relevant contributions in all areas of defence. By acting clearly and predictablely, we contribute to low voltage in our neighbourhoods, and we maintain peace and stability. And it's crucial, I think, that we ourselves are present with our military capabilities in these areas. That is why I fully agree with what the Foreign Minister took the initiative as Minister of Defence, namely to build Finnmark national defence. I think that's important. Then we disagreed when it came to building up the Coast Guard command in Harstad. Fortunately, it was saved in Stortinget. The same was true of the proposal to deprive the Army of helicopters in the north, which we got saved in Stortinget. The government would also investigate putting down the Army's second battalion in Inner Troms as a standing force. Fortunately, here we have had good processes in Stortinget, so that we came to a strengthening of defense in the north. It's in our everybody's interest. Today, Norway is still in a serious health crisis. When the Coronapandemy came to Norway in March last year, the current chief of defense was head of the Army. He has made an important point of the fact that when the crisis struck, he was the only head of the defense who was in the main military area, North Norway and the northern areas. The Stoltenberg II government ensured the establishment of the Defence Operational Headquarters outside Bodø. Now I think it's time for us to have more management functions for North Norway, like the environment around the Defence Operational Headquarters in Bodø. In the setting in Stortinget today, government parties deal with a wide range of industrial policy views and ambitions for North Norway. I'm sure a lot is good. Many parties have also joined it, but it's worth asking themselves, after eight years – and now the views and visions come? Couldn't you fill it with content in the eight years you've been in government? For one thing, visions and visions are, but they must be translated into practical policy, and practical policy has given results: population decline. It is also worth remembering that Minister of Defence Frank Bakke-Jensen said that it was not the government's job to launch the course in the Northern Region policy; it was the government's job to launch good initiatives. I disagree with that description. We need to set a course, and we need important policy instruments to achieve these objectives. A northern area notification was also submitted in 2005. It was good, and it was translated into practical policy when Jonas Gahr Støre took over as Minister of Foreign Affairs in 2005. We're ready to do that again. We need a whole new deal in the Northern Region policy. We need something more than views and visions that we owe to. We need a plan. And with this, I address the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote and the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e797	The representative, Anniken Huitfeldt, then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e802	On page 1 of the setting: ‘The overall government’s policy objectives in the north are: peace, stability and predictability; international cooperation and legal order; holistic and ecosystem-based management; increased job and value creation; closer interaction between business and knowledge institutions; and boating and well-being.’ Then you have the whole sequence. You give absolute priority to everything. I can't think of a single thing that's not there. Then you don't give priority to anything. You give priority to everything, and at the same time you give priority to everything. The North Region Communication is very comprehensive and extends across many areas, from defence to transport. It has been challenging to handle such a wide-spectrum material in a committee that usually focuses on foreign and defence matters. However, it is true that the notification has been dealt with by us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. The North is increasingly an international issue. The Arctic has been marked by international cooperation, but as the international tension between the major powers increases, this is noticeable also in the north. Both Russia and China are increasing their activity and presence in the northern regions. This is not least what we see at Svalbard. The PST threat assessment for 2021 states: ‘China and Chinese actors will continue to prioritise their long-term positioning in the northern regions, including for future resource extraction. We expect both countries to “try to buy or establish operations on strategically located properties in the north” – i.e. China and Russia. When we know this, the government is required to ensure Norwegian ownership of critical infrastructure and property to a greater extent than in the past and to control natural resources in the northern regions. That is why we support the request of the Central Party. I have to say that I agree with Huitfeldt's representative that it is a little late to come with that kind of ambition now, after eight years. That means you didn't have those ambitions before. In order to ensure future growth and, ultimately, to enhance sovereignty in the northern regions, it is important to keep a Norwegian population up. We can't force people to live in North Norway, people can live where they want to live here to land, but we have to make it attractive to establish businesses and businesses in this part of the country, primarily by lowering taxes and taxes. I record that the red-greens are most concerned about giving the public a major role in attracting people, but there are competitive businesses we need, no more public employees. The Communication reads that international attention to climate change in Arctic regions leads to some pressure on Norway to take action and limit activity in the north. It is a paradox that several industries with the highest potential for value and job creation in the north are industries that are so-called climate hosts. An international pressure on Norway to restrict these industries needs to be rejected. Then it is a little strange to hear the representative Huitfeldt, who says that they have been working on increased settlements in the north all the time. It is the socialists who are fanatical about climate, and then there will be no jobs, then there will be public offices and public jobs. Oil and gas are important. It is and remains an important industry for Norway, with a high potential to create values and jobs in the north. Increased petroleum activity in the north creates regional ring effects. Therefore, operational organisations for all new oil and gas fields off the coast of Northland, Troms and Finnmark and the Barents Sea should be added to North Norway. There is also a high potential for building up a regional supplier industry. Another important future industry is the mineral industry, considered by many to be a dirty industry. Globally, minerals are becoming increasingly needed for the production of modern technologies. North Norway is rich in minerals, and we are able to extract them in a good, environmentally friendly way. This can be an important export industry that will provide many jobs. For people to live in the north, good infrastructure is important. The distances are large, and then it's not useful with electric cars. Several hearing bodies mentioned the need for a stronger priority for infrastructure, both road, port and rail. Among other things, the realisation of North Norway will be important for the further development of business and secure activity and settlement in the northern regions. The main task of the Coast Guard is to ensure Norwegian foreign policy and that we exercise it in the northern regions and ensure Norwegian sovereignty. Then it's a paradox that we're now spending eight hours in the hearing away in Lower Castle Street to talk about exactly the opposite, namely that we're not able to exercise that sovereignty because the government is selling Bergen Engines, with Norwegian engines for heavy coastguard vessels, to Russian interests. Here you say something, where you've broken it before you've even started planning it. It's okay to have it in words, but when you sit and do the opposite, it's also interesting. I could say more, President, but I'm not going to finish, so it's not that careful. I am promoting the proposal The Progress Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e836	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e841	When the word "north" was used in the 1970s, the words "near-field" and "north" were summed up and pointed to the security challenges Norway had – and now also increasingly have – in the north. Although this is a very broad message and, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde said, fives about almost everything in our society, I will first focus on the security policy in my article. The centre party is concerned that the major act-rivalization is increasingly affecting our neighbourhood in the north. This is a development that makes Norway more vulnerable and needs to be taken seriously. Russia acts more self-reliant in the north, China talks about governance deficits in the Arctic and wants both more power and more presence, and the EU takes care of and gives – without shyness – licences for crab fishing to its own fishermen. Norway must work hard to ensure that international law is respected. Not least, the seabed is important in the large sea areas of the north. The Arctic is changing due to climate change and sea ice melting. If we are to avoid chaotic conditions and the risk of militarisation in Arctic areas, both active diplomacy and firm governance must be driven by the Norwegian side. In this respect, it was positive to right that Norway should hire a working group to work with climate and security in the Security Council in 2022. To meet the required security policy challenges, building national capabilities and national defence capabilities is important. That's the size and state of our national defence that gives Norway room for action within bilateral agreements and alliances we're part of. The Norwegian defence strategy is based on three main lines: national defence, NATO and bilateral support and reinforcement. The long-term defence message presented by the government in 2020 places significantly greater emphasis on bilateral support and reinforcement from close allies than in the previous year, from 2016. The centre party believes that there is reason to worry about this liability shift in Norwegian defence policy. Norwegian presence is important. It's an important value that Norway is NATO in the north. This could contribute to a lower voltage level. The central party therefore sees a great need to strengthen national defence more quickly than the government proposes, to a level that meets the current and future security situation. In that image, it is also important that several military leadership functions are moved to the north. "It doesn't matter where you are, but where you are sitting," it is called in good news. And one is captured by the image you see around you every day. Therefore, it is important that the defence is more leased from the north than today. The importance of Norwegian ownership and control in our northern region can hardly be stressed. As stated in the PST's open threat report in 2021, the Russian and Chinese interests that make up the biggest threat target are the Russian and Chinese interests. Just these days we have been shown how miserable the government follows up this security question, and that Norway seems to be missing enough good systems to do it a better way. The centre party and a majority in Stortinget therefore propose that the government should ensure Norwegian ownership of critical infrastructure and ownership in addition to national control over natural resources in the north. It's important. In a time of increasing tensions, dialogue and cooperation with neighbouring countries are important. In Barents' cooperation, one has been open for many years to greater interaction between people, with trade and cultural cooperation. It follows a greater understanding and knowledge of people living close to each other, but on each side of the border between Norway and Russia. This cooperation must have a secure framework for further development, not least in economic terms. You can't live with uncertainty about next year's budget every year. The Central Party therefore proposes that the Barents Secretariat be given a permanent commitment to the State budget from 2022. «People shall live in the house», sing Kari Bremnes in a well-known song. But there are still fewer people in the houses in North Norway. The government helps to give gas to the relocation through dismantling and centralising reforms and to get measures that can help increase relocation. It is disappointing that the Northern Region Communication to the Government addresses a wide range of actions that are individually needed and have good visions for development, but with the exception of access to capital and a fund to be managed from the north, the message has no new concrete measures other than ‘to continue’ and ‘to strengthen’ and other honorary words. A centralization agency with market thinking at the bottom may not be so strange. That policy is not so good in North Norway after all. In an area with very large distances and partly low population density, the government has to put away its market thinking and ensure people access to services where they live, not least in education and health. Local students and university students suggest that higher education can be made available to far more than centralised university centres can. Therefore, the government needs to secure these centres economically and make a larger proportion of higher education available there, rather than putting down good education services, which one has made more places in the north. Health services must be decentralised, not least ambulances, ambulance boats and helicopters. It's taking people's safety seriously. It's like nominally large distances in the north and relatively low population. The development of infrastructure based on socio-economic profitability will, therefore, often result in a negative impact in this part of the country. At the same time, there is a high level of activity in industry, especially in tourism, industry, seafood and construction. The central party believes that infrastructure measures must be prioritised, targeted and based on factors other than purely socio-economic benefits. Value creation and transport values need to be much more closely integrated into cost-benefit analyses when calculating the socio-economic profitability of transport projects, as well as societal benefits in a wider perspective. If not, there will be little road construction and infrastructure construction in District Norway, and the railway can be a good example of it. Rail in North Norway is a national project that will provide more environmentally friendly freight and high opportunities for increased value creation and activity in the north. A coherent rail corridor from the south to the north of the country will have a high value for security of supply for goods and goods, and it will make Norway less vulnerable in emergency situations and in relation to other countries its will and ability to invest in infrastructure in the future. The centre party therefore proposes, together with SV, that the government start work on the realisation of the Nord-Noreg track. We are surprised that the Labour Party did not agree to present this proposal. Now we see that they have submitted a less binding proposal in the hall today. Of course, it must be made out, but similar to the City of Stunnel, which is now finally to be realized, also the North Norway course has been awarded in the infinitesimal. Now, action and will are needed to spend the great money on the railways, even outside the densely populated areas of South Norway. The district demography selection, led by Victor Norman, drew among others. the fact that a free or cheaper ferry is an important regional policy measure that can promote the development of housing and can make people want to stay together. The same selection was clear that reducing the price of regional air tickets is also a good offer to ensure bus travel. In North Norway, air travel is not air travel, it is public transport. It is disappointing that the government does not follow up any of this concretely in the big message we are handling today, because it would have been a good idea if we had something that could really have created a little optimism after this message has been signed. To be comforted, the Centre Party has submitted private legislative proposals that allow Stortinget to follow up these good recommendations from the district demographic selection in this room. We could spend a lot of time doing business in the north. Now my time is running out, but I just want to say that there are huge resources in the north, and we can praise it in the infinitesimal, but there is also a need for drag help. It's good with a fund that can add capital, but there's more to it. There are environments in the north that we just don't have in the south. Andøya Spaceport and the establishment of a national innovation centre on Andøya, Newspace North, will be of great value to Norwegian territorial policy, as will the space environment in Tromsø and Svalbard. It will contribute to development and innovation that can also facilitate new start-ups and bud shooting targeting activities within space activities across the country. I could take food by food. I would just like us to have a government that saw this, and that was willing to bet, and not only did we come with rafts and fine words and turns, but real action. It's on the north side of Norway. With that, I take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e885	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e890	I need to make a love statement: I love North Norway! And I don't know if it's the beautiful nature or the sharp, purple mountain, that gives you a drag in the middle of the click, or if it's the contrasts of seasons, with midnight sun and dark time, or whether it's the hospitable people? Certainly it is that the sea plays an important role in this romance. And not to boast, but it's not just a myth: it's here for us that the cod comes in to spawn. So it's clear we got a sense of sweet music in a country built on fishing erotics! The presentation of a new north-eastern communication implies a historic opportunity at a time when historical intervention is necessary. Firstly, we see a changing security policy landscape, at a time of increasing tension, more unforeseeableness and a situation where several actors are applying in the Arctic. Secondly, we see a dramatic – dramatic – President – trend in population development. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark lost 2,000 inhabitants last year, and apart from the Inland, all other counties had growth. The population decline towards 2024 will be greatest among them in the 20s and 40s. In the age segment over 70, North Norway will have growth. Paradoxically, this happens in a time when the possibilities in North Norway are greater than in a long time. In other words, there are major challenges, but also great opportunities. Unfortunately, there is little in this Northern Territory Communication that indicates that the current government is ready to seize the opportunities and address the major challenges ahead of us. Nordland county is perhaps the ones who say this very best: The report on the size of the northern regions contains many good descriptions of the opportunities in the north and what are the challenges in the rural area. At the same time, the Communication is vague and lacking concrete and pointed actions that are necessary in order to realise the potential of value creation, innovation, jobs and urban and urban development. An updated wholesale notification is positive, but without more and more targeted measures it will have little effect. So the problem with the North Sea notification is not the analysis, but there is a very big gap between the needs and the measures the government is taking. The key to developing North Norway on the peoples of the north is in a powerhouse for competence. Strong educational institutions and a professional boost are the main instruments in the fight against relocation and centralisation. There is a excruciating need for a power cap for decentralised higher education and for using digital instruments in this effort. The North Norway Railway is one of the major transportation projects that was absolutely necessary, but never made any of them. For 60 years, North Norway has been waiting for the continuation of the Nordlandsbanen to Tromsø, so that it was guaranteed that goods were produced and transported even when the European road was closed. The North Norway Railway is exactly what is needed to ensure that the fish reaches the markets, that the housing and labour market regions are enlarged, that air traffic and greenhouse gas emissions are reduced, and that North Norway is given a keen signal that it is desirable that people live in this half of the country. The North-Norway is not only an opportunity, it is also a necessity, and in my opinion we have all the information we need to adopt construction. Today, SV promotes a number of measures to break this pattern. The proposals concern research, education, competence and vocational training. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e914	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e919	I also want to commend the government for a good message. I'm a trouser, so I can't make those ovations that the previous speaker did, because I would probably just say that it's okay in North Norway – that's the nicest thing we throngers can say. But it's very good that the message came, and it's good that there was also a process with the people of North Norway. And then I would particularly like to stress that it was good that the Foreign Minister had his own youth panel. I think it was very positive that people got involved in the design of the policy, but especially that they engaged the youth in it. They're the ones who have to see the possibilities. Viewing safety policy, industrial policy, research policy and demography as a whole is very important. The starting point is that people should both live their lives and create jobs and allow people to contribute to the community. Then some of the most important thing from the Left is to facilitate entrepreneurial activity. There's just as many good ideas in North Norway as there are all sorts of other places. But that's not as much money. Providing a fund of your own, which can help to raise more money into the good ideas, I think maybe one of the most important steps we can take to improve development and to stimulate the good ideas that people in Northern Norway have, is also becoming jobs, businesses and opportunities ahead. I am also very pleased that we were given a flexible mandate in the fund, which I think will provide the basis for connecting private money and public money to create more jobs in the future. Transferring power by transferring money to realize ideas is not only contributing to creating jobs, but also to transferring power in society. We in the Left are also very pleased with the initiative of the Svalbard Left, together with the Maritime Forum, to provide opportunities for testing arenas for autonomous vessels in the Svalbard region and in the North. The government parties and the Progress Party have joined forces, and I'm going to follow it up with the Minister of Industry, so that we can make those test venues, which I think are a great opportunity for business and development. Furthermore, it is a bit awkward that someone has put forward a proposal today on a research strategy, which the government parties and the Progress Party have merged in the vote: both to develop research strategies and to strengthen research activities in North Norway. That is an important part of the message. Then there's something the pandemic has led to, which is positive. When the Minister of Economic Affairs has for the first time published a position in the Ministry of Economic Affairs where you can live wherever you want to, and still do the job, it shows what a change in pace we have now begun. And it is clear that if we manage to develop such models in the future, there will also be great opportunities for this region to hold more key positions also in the Norwegian government. The investigation of the North Norwegian Railway was in the toll agreement, so I have been with and negotiated it and made sure that it is now to be further investigated. Then I have to say that there are a lot of big words and rafts being used here in the criticism of the message. The center party turns to new heights because there's nothing real, no ideas and nothing in this message, and you don't have time to talk about foundation, because it's obviously not important enough. But if you go into the setting and look at the proposals from the same parties that are here looking up to great rhetorical heights about how little concrete it is, the proposals are a regular post, a program, a pilot and a plan. These are the proposals that lie as alternative proposals. I don't think the rhetoric is entirely related to the proposals, and I think that when you don't even have time to talk about business policy, which is one of the big money proposals that lie here, which I think is really important, and which is really about taking ideas seriously, I think you might have had a good time either to come up with some good ideas – instead of claiming that there aren't any ideas here, and you don't have time to discuss the ideas that are actually here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e940	We live in a privileged country and a special country in many ways. Our long-term geography gives us important and special challenges, but also advantages. Maps and globes tell most about our country, and this is illustrated in a comprehensive message. It is improperly special that we regularly deal with big business messages with as much domestic policy as foreign policy in this room, and that it is promoted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and dealt with here at the house of our committee. For those who are not political, it may seem strange, but it gives us a good opportunity to recall that the domestic political action we are taking has consequences for the northern regions, and that is why it is also relevant to our foreign policy – or big policy, as we say in Karmøy. Large parts of our country are strategic areas, not only in balance of power between the major powers, but also resource, research and climate. Therefore, it is important that we do not periodically revolutionise, but update our north-eastern policy and look at framework conditions and find effective measures. Both business policy, security policy and research, I am pleased that we have received an offensive message, show a good understanding of the challenge picture in the north and provide a good basis for action. Climate challenges, with more extreme weather, are already putting pressure on infrastructure and industrial development. At the same time, we may be best in the world at adaptation in cold climates, dark and long distances. The specific and demanding challenges and opportunities in the north must be met by offensive and forward-looking policies. Here are important issues that need to be balanced for the indigenous population and other demographic considerations. Natural resources are one of the obvious advantages of North Norway. They make our northern regions attractive in terms of export industries in power manufacturing, maritime food, construction and construction, the supply industry and the petroleum industry. Mineral industry also has strong roots and opportunities for development in the national sphere, and modern development and the green shift require mineral resources. North Norway has traditions, knowledge and opportunities. The travel industry suffers, but the unique nature and experience offers will in turn lure the world back to the north. In the short term, we need to ensure that the industry survives, and in the long term, it will evolve as expectations give world-class experiences. For several years, systematic efforts have been made on the knowledge front in the north. The research environment in and around Tromsø is crucial for Norway's prominent role in scientific knowledge in the north. It is particularly important and responsible for Norway to face up to climate change knowledge, not only because climate change will change very much in the north, but also especially in our Arctic regions. It is a major responsibility in Norway for the management of these areas. The northern sea areas are immeasurably important for the interaction in the sea and form much of the basis for the species that we are used to harvesting and that provide us with and other food on the table. All of this is essential from a welfare point of view, from a district perspective and from an administrative perspective, but also – and not least – from a security perspective. That is why, as I said at the outset, this communication falls within our committee and not the municipal committee, above all. The fact that there are people living in the houses is not only important domestic policy, but equally important foreign policy. It is therefore important that we erase contradictions and prejudices and a signified picture of each other in the southern and northern parts of the country. It's a strategic challenge if we give ground to or nerd up statements like they don't understand us in Rogaland or in Oslo, neither greatness nor government. It is a mutual obligation for all actors in the societal debate to talk about each other with respect and understanding. Recently, the government presented the National Transport Plan, and in these days our colleagues in the Transport Committee are working on it. I am very happy that North Norway came out of that document relatively well. Finally, perhaps the most important thing: no matter how we make politics, the people who live there are the most important resource. Families living, living and working in the north are the main components of industrial development, sustainable climate policy and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e968	A central task of the Northern Region policy is to take care of Norwegian foreign and security interests in the north. The Arctic is today a peaceful and stable region, and it is cooperation and international law and awareness that now characterise the region, but it is also a clear belief that this is due to a conscious attitude of the countries of the region over time, who have worked with this focus. But the Northern Region policy is both about the international image in the Arctic, it is about the relationship with our neighbouring country, and it is about the development of North Norway, and Norwegian interests in the northern regions and the Arctic must be asserted by a strong, viable and competent North Norway. It's been nine years since the last Northern Territory notification. Although the Northern Region policy is based on a very long tradition that has served us well, with the protection of Norway's interests in the north, both through broad international cooperation and a domestic policy that has supported it, many of the framework conditions around us have also changed. The geopolitical situation looks very different. Climate change has taken the region seriously. Demographic development, urbanisation and digitisation have a huge impact on what is now happening. And it's not least an increasing interest in the Arctic from more and more. On this occasion, I would also like to point out both the very good cooperation with the British Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation Delegation, which is led by the representative Sivertsen, and that we have a smooth and informal North Region Dialogue in the Stortinget. Care of Norwegian interests is an important part of it. The national part does not constitute less than 35 pst. of our continental territory and is home to about 9 pst. of our population. It is the government's main strategic focus, and people live and work in the north, and that there is strong economic growth, is important both for foreign and security policy, for the region and for the country as a whole. And there's a lot of optimism in the north. We did not get at least a very good picture of the two years we worked on the Northern Region Communication. It's competence environments, it's young artists, it's educational institutions, it's world-class innovation environments. Everyone has their things both to tell and to contribute, and it has been an incredibly fine part of the message work. We chose to set up our own youth panel because, as the representative Skei Grande said, it is those who are young today who are going to take over, inherit and not least finish the course for the country. We experienced a very committed youth panel that took work very seriously, and that provided a recording that has had a major impact on the design of the message, which we are already well in the process of following up both economically and politically. The Communication also outlines the broad bilateral cooperation with Russia and is also very clear on the value of cross-border people-to-people contacts in the north. In this context, the Barents Council, where Norway has the Presidency until October, is particularly important, in order to build trust across Russia’s borders. There is also an invaluable effort by the Nordic counties, municipalities, the Sameting, voluntary and private actors, and the government has several schemes to support this. The chairman of the Committee indicated that it was soon time for a visit from a Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs to Moscow. Yes, no one would want it more than me. I have a standing invitation from Lavrov to come, but the pandemic made the planned trip last June impossible. So, Lavrov, I'm maintaining the contact that most of the others are now doing, by having digital meetings, no later than one we had now in January. I also remember that both the Prime Minister and I attended the Arctic Conference in St. Petersburg in April 2019, which is also an important part of having bilateral contacts, along with the very good visit of Lavrov to the Churches in connection with the marking that it was 75 years since the liberation. We have a lot of concrete bets in the message, but I just want to draw out some of the things that might have been what we talked about most of the time when we were traveling north in many rounds, and that was the need for more access to private capital. It is also the background for the establishment of the investment fund with State and private capital. We also set up our own fund for young people, to which we have allocated funds, and together it will help to strengthen the important job done, for knowledge development, jobs and hope for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e992	If we are to get more people to live in the north, today's policy needs to change. We have seen eight years of low ambition and new initiatives in the North Region policy. One symptom of this is that where the red-green government provided detailed reports of the Northern Region policy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget, which was on 17 pages in 2013, today’s government cut it down to four pages and removed the entire reporting of appropriations for Northern Region actions. The Communication contains no analyses of centralisation, the consequences of the relocation of skilled jobs, and the measures mentioned are largely old measures that have been put together and have been called a Communication. One example is the investment fund, which was adopted in 2017, and which has not yet been put in place, or that the government has boasted of new rescue helicopters, which were thus adopted ten years ago, in 2011. Developments cannot be carried out in the future without concrete policies that require it, so I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs which obligatory measures in the Northern Territory Communication to reverse centralisation and get more skills jobs she wants to point to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e999	Here it was a lot at once. This is a message of great ambition, which points to the direction and frameworks of the Northern Region policy, and where very many government departments have been involved. It also bears the message. We got a very clear feedback that what we tried to achieve in 2017 with an investment fund did not have the right assumptions at the time. It's got it now. That is why we are also addressing that challenge immediately and donating money to a fund that we believe will be one of the concrete answers to how to create more skilled jobs. We do the same by increasing the budgets of education institutions in the north. They represent an important driving force and are also an important part of making young people stay in the country by taking on relevant education. I have my own education from the University of Tromsø and am very pleased with it. We've also gone over to digital reporting because it gives a better picture of not always completely comparable sizes. I have not experienced that the Workers' Party has previously expressed itself skeptical about this, but I now understand that they also disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1008	Let me start by saying that I share the foreign minister's view of developments between the Storting and the government on Arctic issues. We're a small nation. We need to draw each other. I think we have done that in a good way, and I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for that cooperation. I must also be allowed to say that I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister is now so clear on the need for political dialogue, including with our neighbour Russia. There's been a bit of a tough discussion, and there might have been a bit of a divisive view of it after Russia's violation of international law against Ukraine, but we're on the right track now. Earlier today, we heard the Foreign Minister talk about the link between climate and security. I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares my view that there are no internal security conflicts in the Arctic today, but that they come from outside, and that climate is a threat multiplier, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. So then the question is: what measures will the Foreign Minister take to reduce this impact of the climate multiplier?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1017	Firstly, there are measures both in this Communication and not least in the Climate Action Communication that the government presented, which focus particularly on how we are going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in total, because there is no doubt about what we see of climate change in the Arctic now, with a temperature increase that goes almost three times as fast as elsewhere in the world, not because of activity in the Arctic, but because of climate change that hits the Arctic. What we've also been very clear all along is that what we're seeing today doesn't give us any reason to claim that we're now in a situation where climate change increases security concerns, but at the same time we know that as the ice retreats, increased activity could also be a factor. It also makes it possible for the increased interest in the region to be traded and to raise challenges for security policy in the long term. There has been good both visitation and meeting activity politically with Russia for many years. And this government has made it a point to maintain that contact – even under other difficult conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1024	I'll follow up on the climate trail. We agree on the analysis. Several conferences have been reported, and discussions have also been held both nationally and internationally in recent years, that this is something that makes cooperation and security potential increasingly difficult. I am a little unsure whether I disagree with the Foreign Minister that this is not the case today, because I think we are already seeing that the increased activity and political dispositions in relation to this contribute in the direction that the Foreign Minister himself has described. But what the Foreign Minister does not respond to is: What will Norway do to meet the accelerating developments? Because the world's current track is not leading us towards goals in relation to the Paris climate agreement. Then we'll see an average temperature increase in the Arctic on the tricycle. We're talking about over 10 o C, which will dramatically change the region forever. So what are we giving up on to meet the accelerating development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1034	As I was talking about, the government's climate report is one of the most important answers to what we do in Norway, and we do a lot internationally. We were one of the first countries to report enhanced climate objectives under the Paris Agreement, and I explained them to a great extent in my foreign policy statement. The purpose of this was twofold. One was to have a greater ambition on behalf of Norway, because the challenges we see, as the representative Sivertsen rightly points out, are not reversible unless all countries make a solid effort to achieve it. The second was that we wanted to move with other countries — other Western countries, in particular — to become more ambitious. A little while after we had done this, the EU also came with strengthened objectives, which have an enormous significance. It is important that the biggest polluters in the world do too, which accounts for most of the emissions. We have also, as the representative well knows, embraced the green gift to the EU, where we really see the potential to make a green transition also in the wake of the pandemic. In addition, the Prime Minister’s maritime panel has focused on sustainable marine economy, which is an important part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1044	Great-power levelling and falling up on international law create uncertainty, and it is particularly noticeable in the north. The factors that follow the secret services largely characterise the threat image of Norway and Norway’s interests, including of course of the North, are closely related to Russia and China. The big message we are discussing now is a broad one, and what is perhaps missing, because I am a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, is a deeper analysis of this situation and what one sees happening – what one will do simply to ensure better integration of international law. This is particularly serious for Norway as a small country. Can the Foreign Minister say a little about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1049	We have a very firm view of both international law in the Arctic – not all countries have, and it is a very important message from the Norwegian side when we have dialogue with other countries about this – and that those who want to engage in the Arctic, typically countries like China, which do not have a natural geographicity here, have to align themselves with the architecture and the framework that exists. This applies, for example: Arctic advice, as one important example. The law of the sea, international law, applies, and we experience that among the Arctic states there is a complete consensus on this, and it is also a very clear and consistent message from the Arctic Council. But it's the new actors that have to have and share the same opinion in many ways in order for it to be relevant to the kind of commitment that several people want. We're very closely following the Chinese activity in the area. At the same time, the activity is less than you can get from time to time. This does not mean that it cannot change in the future, and that is precisely why we are working with several other countries, but of course also from Norway, to monitor the activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1054	It may not be so surprising that Russia and China are the factors that most characterize the threat image. It may be more surprising that the EU does not respect the law of the sea. We had a little debate on this before in the Chamber, but I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to be a little more specific when it comes to how the government reacts to the situation in which it is. Usually you will find that the EU is the EU's highest level and that it is held high by this government. There is a lot of good in the EU, for all things, but how does the government react to the EU not respecting the law of the sea in our areas, and what does the government do specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1059	We are now in a situation that is quite similar to the one we had in 2011, where the EU allocates itself quotas that are larger than the ones we have allocated to the EU. This time it comes as a direct consequence of brexit and that there are changes in patterns. We've reacted very strongly to it. We have reacted at both diplomatic and political level, and we have given clear and clear notice that any EU trawl, or fishing boat, which takes up more than what is the quota, will be raised and persecuted in the usual way, as you do in any other context. For us, this is, in principle, very important because it is up to Norway as the sovereign coastal state to allocate quotas, and it is in this context also, we believe, a breach of our sovereign rights, and we have also given the EU a very clear message. Of course, we continue the dialogue with the EU on that, but there must be no doubt that Norway will both react strongly to it and will pursue it if it is fishing more than the quota we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1068	An analysis of the potential for value creation in North Norway shows that the potential for sustainable value creation is very high and will play a key role in the national green shift. But for the green shift to happen, there are some barriers that have to be broken. Firstly, North Norway has major challenges in providing the right skills and sufficient labour. Secondly, North Norway, compared with the rest of the country, has a weaker level of investment in research and innovation. Thirdly, North Norway has restrictions on capacity and standard on infrastructure, which of course affects business. Since I asked for more concrete measures in my post, I now ask directly: what does the government do specifically to raise some of these barriers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1075	As many people have said before, a national transport plan has just been presented, and that is a very important response to many transport challenges in North Norway. I'm not going to repeat this, it's going to be dealt with in Stortinget separately, but I'm going to point out two things that are in the north area message related to transportation. One is that the offices of the Ministry of Transport in 2020 were entrusted with the task of implementing a comprehensive KVU for transport in North Norway, where also the North Norwegian Railway, whole or sub-areas, are part of it. I think that's an important point, because you know that with such distances you're dependent on seeing things in a larger context. It's a work that we're obviously prioritizing. When we're working on these questions to see it as fully as possible, it's also important that just in North Norway, and it's explicitly stated in the message, it's not just the social benefits that can be taken into account for transportation projects, it's also necessary to make a broader assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1080	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1085	Together with those who live and work in the north, the government wants to further develop North Norway as a future-oriented and viable part of the country. The fact that things are going well in North Norway is important for the whole of Norway, and it has been good in the north for a long time. North Norway is a very important part of the country for us as a nation. It contributes to value creation, employment and is an important part of our identity and our culture. As district minister, I am committed to contributing to attractive communities in the north, including in the Sami areas. If we are to lay the foundation for positive development, young people must invest their future in the north. Then we have to build societies where young people want to live. We can't do that by looking back and building the future according to the pattern of the past and its economic and technological constraints. Attractive communities are all about everything from good public services and rich experiences to exciting jobs and bud shooting based on the competence, location, business structure and natural resources we have. I believe that the debate on north development is largely about the new blue and the new green jobs of businesses along the coast. It's about decentralised education. It's about good roads, both county roads and highways. It's about maritime transport, and it's about a good flight offer. But it's also about good living conditions and not least good conditions for those who want to create the jobs that are necessary for people to live there. That is the sum of this notification that provides the basis for North Norway as an engine for Norway. If we are to create viable communities in which local communities develop, we must contribute to a good framework for job creators. That's why we're lowering the taxes by 34 billion. to improve the capacity of business to create more jobs, develop new industries and invest in the future. Here, Nordic business is an engine, and that's how we can also help make North Norway an offensive region in the development of the new green jobs. Northern Norwegian enterprises point to a weaker access to capital in the region than in other regions, and the lack of skilled labour hampers development and growth. That's exactly why we want to set up an investment fund for North Norway and a fund for young people. This will give a boost to the continent. During the last year, the government has set aside billions to ensure the implementation and strengthening of the skills of apprentices, of high school students, and of lay-offs and unemployed. It will also give North Norway great opportunities for development. Well-functioning small towns and agglomerations are also an engine for development in the areas around them. The rich natural resources of Northern Norway also represent unique opportunities for increased value creation. In order to support this, the government will provide three district strategies during the spring. They will also be very important for North Norway. Strategies will focus on small towns and towns, our entire coast, and on the mountains and inland. Good transport links Norway together. Both people and goods come out faster and safer. When the government presented a new national transport plan, we showed how we will continue the government's historic transport project. Many of them are located in North Norway. Digitalisation makes it possible to solve tasks in completely new ways. We can get more remote work places. The government has also started work to ensure flexible workplaces in state jobs. We now see that the Minister of Economic Affairs was the first to publish posts in a department with a place of work in Norway. The pandemic shocked Norway to a large extent. This makes it possible for others to also work for large companies or agencies and directorates and to live in North Norway. The pandemic was also tough and tough for North Norway in many ways, but the region has been better in crisis than many other regions. Then it is also important that we now focus on creating more jobs and value creation in the north, so that people want and want to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1111	In order for something to be called a north-eastern policy, it has to be what comes at the top of all other national policies. But the criticism of the announcement is very well illustrated when you hear the minister speaking now. You take what's true for everyone, and then you put the word "North Norway". It won't last. It is also illustrated when the measures in the Communication refer to the establishment of new rescue helicopters, which were adopted in 2011. It's been nine years. Or when you point out that you have to follow up and set up a quota system for fisheries. It was adopted last year. Follow-up is a matter of course; the alternative is not to follow the decision of the Storting. That's what you could have gone through. In addition, there is a lot to follow up on or to continue or evaluate. What is really new in this message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1120	As a district minister, I am very pleased that we have a north-eastern message like the one that is now on the table, compared to the Workers' Party that helped to present, which was a lot of nice words, but it was little concrete that was about those who live there. That's what's so good about this message, that it's about how we're going to create jobs and how we're going to build faith in the future in North Norway. And then we're going to do more of what we know works. It's about a formidable commitment to competence, so companies have the opportunity to get the competent workforce that they want you, and a formidable commitment to transportation. It's about a formidable bet on decentralisation, high-speed broadband, enhanced echo turnover in Finnmark, so that people can work and live where they want to in the country, compared to the Workers' Party, which only wants more state, that's the only answer, cooperate with the Center Party, which is putting the whole EEA agreement into play. It will be a dramatic experience for people, but also dramatic for jobs in North Norway, which are going to be very exposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1126	That is probably an illustrative answer to the fact that you speak only in large words. It is obvious that those who have written this message – you have good professionals with you – know what you are talking about. But the problem is that the measures are absent, and what has been done is that all the departments have been asked to frame up everything that has been made by decisions in the Stortinget, on which there can be put 'North Norway', and then they say that the Northern Region policy. So my question is, what are the new obligating proposals for North Norway, specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1133	We want to do what we know works for North Norway. Before the pandemic, we saw that North Norway was one of the regions in Norway that had growth in the business world, which demanded skilled labour. It almost didn't smell asphalt anywhere in North Norway until this government took over. We've been given a historic journey promise. And we see how important infrastructure, competence and digitisation are for businesses to cope with. In everyday life, it's also about how we follow up around the municipalities in North Norway. The municipality from which the representative is, Tromsø, said no to a lot of jobs in Arctic Center – a terrible thing, I think, because such a venture would have created jobs in North Norway, jobs in Tromsø, investment in travel life and winter sports places. There must also be a link between what is done in practice and what is on the platform and what is being said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1140	I think I have to say that the most prominent word in the articles of the Council of State here on the pulpit was also 'because, with one exception, a capital fund in North Norway, all the measures she mentions must be 'also' applicable to North Norway. In view of the special challenges that all parties have been talking about here today, and the special opportunities that North Norway represents for the nation, there should be no need for social issues, educational initiatives, tax policies to apply to North Norway as well. I am going to be quite specific on the question: if this is the case that North Norway and the North regions represent a very specific possibility for the nation of Norway, but are faced with very specific challenges, what specific policy and economic instruments is the government willing to use to realise the potential of this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1149	This reminds me a little when the north-eastern communication was presented. Those were so hard words, and it was a black paint without equal. North Norway is produced as a part of the country that is closest to the hand of the lua and must have support wheels for the most part. We see a part of the country with amazing resources, with people who want to stand on and get to things. I also think the representative knows just as well as I do that when you look at the proposals from the Labour Party, there is not much to boast about. They also came here last round with a proposal on the North Norway Railway, because it would be bad with the great ambitions that the Workers' Party has made here in advance, not to be in favour of and support the proposal of the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party, which was on the table. But the measures we're presenting here are access to more risk capital, it's the Founder's Fund, it's a major effort further on education and skills, on transportation, on continued tax relief, as we know North Norway also needs, because North Norway needs very much of the same things as the rest of the country to get value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1154	There are very big words – there will be a lot of competence, digitisation, infrastructure, workplaces and so on. And then there was one specific point, and that gave me credit instead of the speaker's chair, and that was that it was a fund. I don't think the coercion of Troms and Finnmark has contributed to better popularism. I do not believe that the fisheries policy of this government has led to a better population status for coastal communities. I don't think the closure of the Højskulen in the Nesna and the centralisation of supply in education have given better population status and more focus. I could have framed a lot, a lot more, but now let's stick to education, because competence is called so much by the council. Will the government contribute to the decentralisation of study and university students, with whom one has good experience in North Norway? And why isn't that part of the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1161	I think the representative might know that, because the government is working on a strategy for decentralised education, and that's where we want to present how we want to facilitate more decentralised education and also empower people. We know that it is important for people to stay, for young people not to leave their home. I am very pleased that we are now looking at this strategy also linked to the rural strategy that the government is pursuing, because we see that there is a great difference on the coast of North Norway and the inland. I have good faith that a decentralised education strategy will also help more people stay at home in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1166	After eight years, it's time for them to come up with three district strategies. We've been calling for district policy for eight years. I know that the representatives from North Norway have done the same thing, those who live there, live there, know that on the body. When the county capital misses 9 pst. by the inhabitants, you know it — even in the vicinity, right, and not just where it happens. It has no positive ringing effects. But now I'm going to ask you something very specific, and that's the North Norwegian Railway. There might be a strategy for it too, but at least I haven't heard it. For that delegation from the Directorate of Railways, you were handed over to the Ministry of Transport in 2019. Then she was on her earring, but then it was quite quiet. So I can ask you two questions. When it comes to county roads, does the whole taken district minister know how much it will take and how many years it will take? But the most concrete thing is, why isn't there something specific about the North Norway track in this message – and neither in the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1175	It's because there's a work going on with a KVU that's going to come in 2023. So my question now is about what the Central Party and the Workers' Party propose today, is there an additional order that will come up with the work that is already being done in the KVU and that will be completed? Is there more knowledge, more investigation than the KVU will give us over the total investment in transport? That's now the one. And after the Center Party was in government and moved the county roads to the county municipalities – without any funding – and estimated a maintenance allowance of a few million, on which we had to use the ten-year-old, for the first time a government has now said that we are going in from the state with co-financing. It's never happened before. After all, there was a solid centralization reform of the Center Party, because when the county roads didn't get...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1182	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1187	Right-wing former state councillor Victor Norman has led the demographic committee. He believes that we need to have a directive on decentralised education, and that decentralised education is the solution for the districts. I noticed that the minister said in his post that we should have a formidable commitment to competence. This is in stark contrast to what has happened at Nesna, a place of study that for a hundred years has provided qualified teachers to a whole part of the country, a delivery that is the very basis for settlement, for whom will settle in a place without a good school and with good, qualified teachers. How does the district minister think that the government delivers on decentralised education, all the time the government with open eyes looked at campus Nesna's closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1196	When the board of directors of North University decided to drop the Nesna study site, the government respected it, but we've seen a need for more decentralised education, and that's why we're working on this strategy. Now we see the possibilities of digitization giving, by studying as part of virtual study hubs, or sitting in a work community, or contributing in different ways. It's not just about geographic campuses that are located around; you can study in many different ways. We're concerned that people should have more possibilities to choose from. The most important thing is that people get the skills, the possibility of education, and that's why we're now doing a good job of presenting this strategy, because we see that there's a great need here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1202	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1207	The Workers' Party will make the 2020s the decades of the Nordic regions. It is time for new initiatives after eight years of low ambition. The 2005 Northern Region policy was a start, and it turned the map around. The government will restore the map when it centralizes. The Northern Territory Communication had good analyses, but lacked policy. There was some kind of NM in transit without any jump. The Workers' Party will have greater ambitions for development, a closer-to-people North Region policy, and a greener North Area policy providing solutions to the climate crisis. But it's a big problem. The people are missing. The prerequisite for having activity, for exploiting resources, and for having credibility with our neighbors is that there are people living in the north. The potential of Norway in the north simply cannot be exploited if the coast is depopulated. The first thing we should do is obviously to stop with a lot of the right-wing government has done, whether it's cutting the county budgets or centralizing the knowledge and the breadth. We need to focus on well-being, school, kindergarten and a good cultural offer, and we need to take initiatives back in politics in the north and towards our neighbours. That is why the Workers' Party wants the northern regions to be defined as our main peace project. We want to turn the northern regions into the centre of green conversion, and initiatives also mean turning centralisation around. You can stand on the berth somewhere along the coast of the north and see the freezing rays slip past the freezer hotels in Tromsø before they send the fish frozen out of the country. You can be a local politician in a municipality of aquaculture, but don't notice anything about the activity when the municipal budget is to be adopted, and we can sit at home in our living room and hear party speeches about North Norway on our TV, but at the same time see that Nav, the District Court, the tax office or the study site are shut down. This is not a policy that creates optimism; it is not a policy that provides housing or – even more importantly – become-enlightened in the north. For this reason, the Workers’ Party has proposed a number of measures to ensure that centralisation is reversed and skilled jobs are created in rural areas, including a separate business guarantee that ensures better governance by the State. We also need to increase the focus on knowledge, and the short message from the Workers' Party is that more of the North's competence must lie in the North. For example: when 80 pst. of the Norwegian sea areas in the north, it is stated that more of the competence of the sea should lie there, close to the resources and the industry that manages them. I wonder where the offensive plans for which environment of competence you can create in the north, or move north, are in the government's notice and government's policy. It's almost absent. I saw someone who wrote when the government put forward the north area message saying it was good that you hadn't listened to the loud calls to set up new centers. If it had been the thinking under the red-green government, we would not have had the investment at the Promsenteret in Tromsø, not the investment at the Nordgebietszentrum in Bodø, nor did we have a new environment of competence – on the contrary. It's probably north to everyone, and we should focus on both new knowledge development and new centres that make Norway's position in the Arctic and the North even more prominent. What is also important for the Workers' Party is to provide more local value creation from our resources. It's a perspective of the north zone announcement almost completely exposed. In many communities, there is little evidence that the home is rich in natural resources. It's often called the Arctic Resource Paradox. It's a paradox that needs to be solved. We will make clear demands on local ring-effects, on workplaces and the construction of local supply industries when the use of natural resources is made in the north. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has the most offensive programme for the North and North Norway. Especially the contrast to the government is great. On four sides of the Workers' Party's recently adopted party programme, we have more concrete policies than the government is able to deliver on a 200-page Northern Region Communication. This shows that there is a good chance for the autumn that there will be more ambition and a new giver in the Northern Region policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1226	The representative Fagerås had a little smirking ode to the cod, but I now stick to the good Petter – Petter Dass: “Skin” Torsken us hide, what did we have then, What should we lead to Bergen from here?" «Land of tension» was the title of the first social anthropological study of North Norway. It was actually Bishop Eivind Berggrave who published this book in 1937. It was a bestseller that year and sold in 50,000 copies. Then, as it is now, North Norway is the Land of Voltage. It's a part of the country characterized by people with an inconvenient campaign against, a rich business life, huge natural resources and a magnificent nature. However, a part of the country also has its challenges, and these challenges are primarily linked to access to knowledge and skills in order to further develop and create new businesses. The economy of Northern Norway was better than the economy of the rest of the country in the period 2008–2018. Growth was higher. And the small municipality of Moskenes, the municipality of the island far out in Lofoten, was actually at the founding head of North Norway. Over a decade, thousands of people have been able to create 139 new businesses. These holdings were mainly linked to tourism and fisheries. Full-time tourism was a rather unknown concept in North Norway two decades ago. The fast route went empty in winter. Now we see that all-year tourism creates demand for local cultural services and local activities. I took the fast route from Blackland to Svolvær tur-return in the rum jula a few years ago and came in chat with the captain. He told me that on that trip, the tour from Bergen to Kirkenes, there were passengers of 17 different nationalities. It tells us a little bit about the potential of tourism. Effective and secure traffic solutions are central to the development of the national divide. Yes, it is as central as the EEA Agreement. Remember: Northland is one of the country's most important and largest export countries, and exports account for a very high proportion of the value creation in Troms and Finnmark. There is a unison feedback from the industry in North Norway that we need to end the EEA Agreement, which the Centre Party does not. Whoever's been in North Norway and driving E6 up, sees that there's been a formidable rise in the E6 rise northwards. And more is coming. According to the National Transport Plan, new E6 will be built from Fauske to Hamarøy. It's a traffic-laden road today. Trailers have to go into the middle of the roadway to get through the narrow tunnels. So it'll be a formidable boost. Time does not allow me to frame the many infrastructure projects that have been implemented and that are coming. Under the umbrella – or under the radar – there is a green shift. For example, the ferry link Bodø-Moskenes will now be offered – hydrogen- combined with river ferries. Only that grip will lead to 26 tonnes of CO 2 savings during the year. Major policy has absolute implications for North Norway. We see a development that non-Arctic states are reporting their interest in this area, where they want to produce the northern regions as a conflict-filled area without jurisdiction. That's wrong. There is a common denominator for the Arctic states: to stand up for international law so that this area can be maintained as a peaceful and stable area. People-to-people cooperation in the northern regions is good, and we must be happy about it. But we must not lose sight of the fact that this cooperation is also affected by major policy and security policy. That is why Russia's build-up of forces, its self-restraint through foreign policy, and Russia's destabilization towards the West are so sad. What the intent is, only Russia itself knows, but this is directly to the detriment of the inter-people relations that have been so good for centuries. Finally, I would like to say that there is a great deal to be done in defence in North Norway. This government has done so through its previous long-term plan and through its current long-term plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1257	Peace, stability and predictability are key words for how we want the situation in the northern regions. My speech will therefore be mostly about defence policy. The Progress Party sees the north as a major resource for Norway. With large protein and mineral resources, the northern regions are an important part of our resource base. It is therefore important to manage resources in a good manner, and it is equally important to have agreed agreements that are respected with other actors in the areas. Unfortunately, the situation of security policy both regionally and globally has deteriorated. More uncertainty and greater rivalry between the United States, Russia and China contribute to making the northern regions a arena of new activity and greater focus. Military strategically, the North is of great importance as Russia’s nuclear replication capacity is located in the Kola Peninsula. It is a fundamental interest for Russia to protect this capacity and secure the ice-free route from Kola and out into the North Atlantic and the Norwegian Sea. The Arctic sea areas are also important for the strategic submarines of nuclear powers, including: as a result of the possibility to operate below the ice cover. Russia’s bastion defence, which aims to protect its strategic capabilities up to the GIUK line – Greenland, Iceland and the UK – has also been reinforced in recent years by the strategic submarines and new missile programmes of new generations. This could have a significant impact on NATO’s ability to keep the routes across the North Atlantic open and accessible for allied strengthening of Europe in a crisis situation. Russia has built up its military and civil resources in the area. Several exercises and more activity have been ongoing in recent years. Russia today does not pose a direct military threat to Norway. On the other hand, the country’s focus on ensuring control in the northern regions is a factor that puts Norwegian security under pressure. China's major ambitions have a global impact on security policy challenges. In recent years, the country has also increased its attention to the Arctic in terms of security policy. Recently, China has carried out exercises in the areas with Russia, which shows that it includes the northern regions in its sphere of interest. China's influence in the region is also a cause for concern for NATO. It would be naive not to look critically at Chinese investment and involvement, as potential challenges to stability in the region. Chinese infrastructure construction in Norway can also be challenging in a broader societal security perspective. China’s interest in more research localised to Svalbard and in the Arctic in general also shows that China’s objectives are greater knowledge of, and further presence in, the region. In recent years, the United States has focused more on the geopolitical focus on the security situation in Asia, resulting in less attention to Europe. This has meant that European NATO countries have had to take a greater share of responsibility for their own security. The European NATO countries have increased their defence budgets in recent years, much thanks to strong pressure from the United States. Despite less involvement with Europe, the US and NATO have increased attention in the North and Arctic regions. This is both due to the fact that Norway has highlighted the importance of this in the alliance for many years, and that Russian construction itself is of safety concern to the United States and NATO’s ability to ensure its own safety. The Progress Party is satisfied with the North Area Initiative adopted in the agreement on the Long-term Plan for Defence. The establishment of a helicopter quadron on Bardufoss, the upgrading and modernisation of the Coast Guard's resources and the strengthening of Finnmark show that Norway has the ability, the will and the capacity to care for our interests in the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1285	I think this is a debate that illustrates in a good way the point that when we discuss the Norwegian North, it must also be done in an international context. What's one of my concerns is that we have a tendency to make the North Region bet not a national bet, but we're talking it down to become a regional bet, a new North Norway plan. That trap must not go into the nation. It will, of course, affect North Norway, but it will also affect the nation if you downgrade and downgrade it to it. I would like to thank both the committee leader and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for helping to place Norway and the Norwegian Northern Region policy in the context of foreign policy in a very good and balanced way. Then I want to say that it is nothing new that the Workers' Party has been concerned with moving management elements in the Defence Northwards. These included: Mr. Espen Barth Eide did something that he did when he presented the long-term defence plan in 2012. He proposed to move the Air Force management and connect it to the operating headquarters at Reitan in Bodø. That was a good idea, as it's a good idea now. I have also enjoyed representing the Arctic delegation of the Storting in international parliamentary cooperation. Last week, the Stortinget hosted a two-day conference – digitally in these covid-19 times, which is what works so well, we are constantly training to get better. The Foreign Minister also had time and contributed in an excellent way to promote the discussions we had about what is important now. There are two things I would like to draw up from the final declaration on which there was a consensus at that time, on which both Russia, the United States, the European Parliament, which is a full member, the Nordic countries and Canada took part. There are two things that are important. One is that, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also involved here, in the exchange of replies, the countries with the largest emissions also have a special responsibility to ensure that we achieve the ambitious objectives of the Paris Agreement. In the Arctic, we are first and hardest hit by the consequences for the climate. Then it's a paradox that if you take the eight Arctic nations and the observation nations, including the EU, to the Arctic Council, they represent, with 2018 figures, more than 70 pst. of the annual emissions of CO 2. The Arctic parliamentarians then believe that there is also a special responsibility for the Arctic Council, as a voluntary association, in order to show how we are going to achieve the objective of cutting emissions, so that we do not get a dangerous warming of the globe. In the Arctic it will be especially special. This challenge must be borne in mind by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in May. She must take it with her colleagues who will represent Norway during the COP26 negotiations in Glasgow later this year, where the Arctic countries must show how the 200 countries will reach agreement. The second international challenge that I want to mention is related to the rapid development we see in climate, which is a challenge for people living in the north, but it is also a security policy challenge that we have discussed. It is dangerous as a threat to humanity, and it is accelerating. Then we also need to increase our efforts to have knowledge to understand what is happening, what the effects are of the climate, and why it accelerates as it does. One of the big things we've done four times before is having an international polar year. The last one was in 2007-2008. It was a planned coordinated increase in resources internationally in order to gain more knowledge of the effects we are seeing, what is happening, and how it will affect the world in the future. It takes some time to coordinate such an international effort. That is why the time has now come – and that is what the Arctic parliamentarians say – to ask for a new international polar year. Most likely it's realistic to get to it when it's the end of the United Nations decade, that is, around 2030. I also believe that the Norwegian government should pick up, work for and sit in the driver's seat. We cannot wait another 50 years – as it has traditionally been between the polar veins. We don't have time to do that with the rapid climate change we see, either in the Arctic or in Antarctica, and also because it has such an impact on the rest of the globe and the development of the climate there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1313	I have listened with interest to representatives from the Workers' Party who have been to the national meeting and now have four pages of concrete measures for North Norway. I look forward to that. They are almost exposed to their absence in the comments on the message, so if the clarity has come during the national meeting weekend, we appreciate it. There's a lot of government has done for the whole country, of course also for North Norway. For this part of the country, there is special investment — as in other national policies, which also benefits North Norway, in some cases perhaps more than elsewhere in the country. This applies to the educational commitment and, in particular, to a major commitment to transport and road. This applies to simpler business conditions as well as to upgrading defence. I think it's important to talk positively about a part of the country that has such huge resources. But until the checkpoints that have been presented from the opposition today, I must say that to produce how bad the government has been doing for eight years is not getting the total attraction. It doesn't deserve the region. It's huge resources, and it's a great part of the country. I have now highlighted what the Committee has agreed on as the main lines of the communication, and where good wording has been found together, but these are just as simple exceptions. It is regrettable when some batches sow uncertainty about some solutions, which are either unrealistic or will lead to undermine other bets. It is also regrettable that initiatives and decisions which are not sufficiently well established and which may also have unintended consequences. We've seen both of them in the treatment of the Northern Territory Communication. One is that government parties were given a majority in favour of the proposal to ask the government to secure Norwegian ownership of critical infrastructure and property and to ensure national control of natural resources in the northern regions. The majority of this Decision was achieved with the support of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Norway has control of natural resources in the north, as we have it in the whole country. It is therefore not quite good to say what a challenge this proposal is intended to solve. What is clear, on the other hand, is that such a decision may have negative and unforeseen consequences. What's going to happen to Hurtigruten, who has foreign owners? What about private enterprises in the northern regions? Should the industry and use of natural resources in the north have more constraints than elsewhere in the country? The message is intended to ensure opportunities in the north, not to deprive them. Another area where uncertainty was again sown is the question of a North Norway track. To Tromsø – what about the rest? This is such a comprehensive project that it will eat up the entire space of action for all the other efforts on transportation. Then it's worth noting to everyone else who's concerned about intercity or the fairway to Fredrikstad, one of the biggest ports, that it's smoking out with this. That's why we in the government have prioritised completing the projects we have started and improving the infrastructure we have available, where there is also a significant maintenance run. A North Norway Railway will not only solve transport challenges in North Norway. This must be seen with road, sea and air, our country is created like this. That is why, under the direction of the government, we have also launched an overall concept selection investigation on transport solutions in North Norway, which I also see as the regional level demand. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party ask in the notification of the immediate start of this path. How is this to be financed? I'm not going to say that it's completely in the red-green, but it's at least completely in the blue. The Labour Party does not properly support the proposal, but expresses itself indistinguishably. We need to be able to take a holistic view of such enormous efforts. It's not right for the people of the north to give false hopes or to lead them behind the light with what I'd call an election bottle. We're in an election year. It's not surprising that this kind of thing is coming. It is possible that some of the opposition parties may be promoting such proposals in order to ensure that it will be put to the vote. It is best to put more behind the light than the inhabitants of Northern Norway and a part of the country that deserves better and more security of transport solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1326	Many of us who live in North Norway have a completely different view of the continent than many others have, it seems. When you read documents, annotations and other recordings, we get a little shaky. It's a little bit of a shame on us who live in North Norway. But what is really the biggest challenge and the biggest problem for the part of the country – and something that no one else in this room will discuss? I can answer that quite briefly. It's the whole thing, really. The conspiracy is today the greatest threat to development in the north, and yet the majority wants to give them even more power. In the message we will find, among other things: main lines of north-eastern policy, one of which is the ‘Effectiveisation of the Northern Government’. And this is without taking into account the biggest problem: the ability of the whole of North Norway to strangle. We live in scarcely 480 000 people in the north. That's about. 18 000 registered in the Sameting election number, but, and that's essential, they live in the whole country, they don't just live in North Norway. Nevertheless, the whole thing is going to be right, with the law in hand, to overrun all of us who live in the country. To put this in perspective, if these 18,000 had lived in North Norway, they would have been 3.75 pst. of the population of North Norway. So of the people who are registered in the Sameton, it's less than 30 pst. living in the Sámi core regions. Almost 40 pst. lives in larger cities, e.g. Oslo, Trondheim and Tromsø. Nevertheless, the majority think it's okay that almost half a million people should be under the influence of a very small minority of the population. The way in which the other political parties simply overlook the consequences, they accept conflict and resistance rather than strengthening the identity and culture of each other, which should have been the focus. So the multiples add up to separate people by their definition of value, and that's not what I'm referring to. The conspiracy is the greatest threat to development in the north, with its training of important matters. For example, parts of the Nordic Council had a meeting in Haparanda in 2019, and two things were requested: Why have not the working groups for double tracks on Ofotbanen and for the railway Rovaniemi–Kirkenes started the job? Sweden and Finland were ready. I asked the department about both parts and was told that the Sameting had not yet appointed its representatives. The third example is the North Norway Railway. We can adopt it as much as we want, but the Sameting has already warned that these are the most likely against it. In addition, I could mention mineral development, both on the Salt Mountain in Northern and Finnmark, and extend the procedure due to the right of consultation. That's the big majority in the hall will make even worse for us who live in North Norway. Why should an application to build a cabin that is far from people get more than six months longer trial time simply because it is located in North Norway? Is that fair? Why does not, or will the majority not, see that the policy being pursued makes it worse for us in the northern regions who actually live there? And as long as this discrimination against people is accepted by the majority in this room, submitting a notification after notification does not help. As long as one does not dare to tackle what creates problems and negative developments, namely the ability of the whole region to strangle, yes, Norway will continue to lose forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1337	In the Declaration of Accession of the Stoltenberg Government in 2005, we, as many have already pointed out, stated that the northern regions should be Norway's main strategic area in the years that came. That sentence was perfectly consciously formulated with ‘the most important’. It was the whole of Norway's view to the north, so you shouldn't just raise a part of the country. This was not a North Norway policy alone, this was a policy for a country that turned its gaze toward the north and what happened in the north. At that time, a decade and a half ago, we had seen that the tensions between the superpowers had gone down relatively. It was no longer in the same way an expanse of competition between Russia – the former Soviet Union – and the United States, and we had half a decade's experience back to the fall of the Berlin Wall, increasing cooperation with Thorvald Stoltenberg's barn cooperation, increasing focus on Arctic cooperation and on the people-to-people cooperation between East and West. The idea was to raise skills, bets and presence in the north to take advantage of the opportunities that were there then, and that had opened up even more. Much went as it should. Many things were lifted, and the international focus came to a greater extent as we wanted, in the north, if not always in the way we wanted, but some things evolved differently. Petroleum development was achieved, but not near the level we had seen in 2005. This was the time when there was an opportunity for significant business not only in Norwegian, but also on the Russian side. The desire to fix the split line ratio was, among other things, driven by a wish from both parties. You didn't want to have this outstanding if now this became an oil and gas region. You also saw even more activity in the north-east passage than what we've gotten so far. Now, 16 years later, the situation is different. The security policy image is more complicated. The geostrategic relationship has also begun to shape Arctic cooperation. Not least under the previous U.S. administration, we also tried to do exactly what we tried to avoid in the past, and which this government has also worked to avoid, i.e. import problems that really don't belong in Arctic cooperation. On the way forward, I think it's important that we remember what may have been the most important doctrine of Norwegian East-West politics for many, many years. It's that you have to be clear, you have to show firmness, you have to stand up for what you believe in, and show that you put power behind demands. That's what we used to call deterrence, which maybe today is better described as firmness and clarity. On the other hand, there should be an open hand, an openness for dialogue and cooperation to the east, including Russia. A very important point in that theorem is that if you have to tighten up on firmness and clarity, you should also increase, not weaken, cooperation. You have to take advantage of the possibilities that are actually there. Then it is a very important point to take into account that even in a more close relationship between East and West, we have important common interests, both because we are neighbours and manage a common fish stock, for example, and because the law of the sea is in the material interests of Norway, Russia and the other Arctic states. In fact, we have a genuine common interest with Russia that Russia does not share with, for example. China. It is a constant challenge in Norwegian foreign policy to remind other countries of what the Arctic is and is not, and not least to point out that those who draw parallels, who have now resigned from Minister of Foreign Affairs Pompeo, to the tension in the South China Sea, are simply wrong, because one of the many problems in the South China Seas is that there is no agreement on the law of the sea or on the methodology to be used to clarify different border conditions. We are in the Arctic. The Arctic is a sea that is surrounded by states that actually work and that have either ratified or behaved as if they had ratified the Law of the Sea, that is, the United States. What we mean when we say that the northern regions are Norway's most important peace project, is that it is both the peace project that is most important to us because it directly affects our own security, and the peace project that we have the greatest opportunity to shape ourselves because we have such an important role in it. I feel that there is a long-term continuity that it is important to take care of in the very understanding of what the northern regions are, and not least what they are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1354	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1359	We are currently discussing a very comprehensive report on the northern regions; it includes a number of things. I'm going to focus on the security policy analysis that underpins this message. It states that there is peace and stability in the region and that there are good relations between neighbours. But, it also appears in the message, there are storms in sight, you claim. There's a demanding foreign and security policy situation in the north, but there's no very specific reference to what it is, but there's obviously a tension there. This is due to Russia’s policies in eastern Ukraine and also in Crimea in 2014. One might miss that Russia is also more blamed, perhaps more linked to some internal relations in Russia, which is challenging, but also what Russia has done in Georgia a little earlier. Russian power building in the north is also being blamed. The SV and the government agree that there are a number of things in Russia that are worrying, but we disagree that we can automatically involve developments in eastern Ukraine and automatically say that it helps to pose a threat to Norway. I'm not able to see that reasoning in the message – the link between Russia in Ukraine and Russia in North Norway. What we see, on the other hand, is that the government's response is increased military presence in the north, a new agreement with the United States, which will contribute more planes, nuclear weapons and forces. So the strategy is that if you show more muscles together with the United States, you have to deter. From the Russian side, that response may seem strange. Why should Russia be a threat to Norway because they are acting aggressively against Ukraine? So we have a situation where both parties perceive that the counterparty is aggressive. Norway, in this situation and in the notification, takes no responsibility for the increased tension that has arisen in the area, and I think that is very critical. That way, the whole traditional balance between reassurance and deterrence is set aside. Here, Norway is only counting on the deterrence part and goes uncritically into a narrative where the blame for the tension is placed solely on the other. That is why it is important for SV in this communication, when dealing with this, to present a proposal asking for and calling for a clear willingness to also look at concrete peace and resuscitation measures, and a willingness to see that Norway also has a responsibility for the increased tension that has arisen in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1373	The right-handering allows the good words to hail in the north-facing message. But we have to look at what the government does, not what it says. The government does little to get a strong, viable and competent North Norway. But it's really contributed to the eye-catching distribution in the opposite direction. Why did it go about. 50 pst. of the resources of Innovation Norway to the four largest urban regions, and only 3 pst. by the instruments of the total of enterprises in the Nordic region in 2019? This arrived late in the fall of 2019. At the same time, statistics showed that Nordic countries lost eight inhabitants per year. day(s) No counties had had greater negative population growth in a quarter of the last 20 years. Both in 2019 and 2020, the population fell by 890 people in the Nordic region – a total population reduction of 1780 people in two years. But today, North Norway stands for about 60 pst. by Norwegian seafood production, when both aquaculture and fisheries are included. 80 pst. of the Norwegian sea areas is located north of the Arctic Circle, where Norway's toughest ones work. In 2017, the government began to set up catapults, a mechanism for faster, better and less risky innovation processes. Why are none of these catapults in the north? Catapult Future FOODS – The role of Biomarine industries in the green shift is ready to establish itself in Northern Ireland. NCE Aquaculture is a marine cluster in Northern Ireland, which is a locomotive in the further development of Norwegian aquaculture and related activities. This is where we work, among other things. to convert 1,8 tonnes of CO 2 via light into 1 tonne of microalgae and 1,6 tonnes of oxygen. But do you think that the government has opened up for Nord University to lead the projects financed through the Green Platform through the Norwegian Research Council, despite their strong R & D skills and the fact that universities normally participate in this programme? No, now all of a sudden the institutes are counting. Nordland and Finnmark have few institutes in this country. Why is the new Green Platform setting criteria that discriminate against Nordland and Finnmark? The report also mentions a strengthened national identity and culture of indigenous peoples. Thank you, President. I'll have to take the rest afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1385	Today we are dealing with one of the most important issues of the period – in my opinion. It is good that the government and now the Stortinget establish that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic area. It's done a great job recording this message, and I want to highlight the use of the Youth Panel as a genius. This has also been noted beyond our borders. Last week, the Norwegian Arctic delegation here at the Stortinget hosted the Arctic Parliamentary Conference, which was closed digitally. One of the participants in the government youth panel was one of the openings of one of the sub-seminars. This was well received and appreciated by the participants, among others. by Senator Lisa Murkowski of the United States, who drew attention to the importance of listening to young people. We have a challenge in the north, and that's population development. It is very good that this message just addresses this challenge. We have to be able to change the negative development that has been going on for many decades, and is not something that has happened in the last eight years. All of us who live in the north have to take this seriously and stop blaming each other for the evolution that happens. Because I'm not in doubt that we have the resources, we have the opportunities and we have the commitment, but we need more warm, strong hands and wise heads. And as the youths themselves say in their input: ‘You don’t attract young good people if they’re told how broken everything is in North Norway.’ There has been enormous investment in infrastructure in North Norway these years. And it has been important and necessary to transport goods and people safely. This initiative also continues in the coming NTP, where my home country Nordland and North Norway have given good feedback. We have an aquaculture industry that employs many along the whole coast in the north, creating many local and regional ring-effects. There may be further growth here, only they will have the opportunity to continue their sustainable development. My concern is that the state's extended arm, with the state manager at the head, puts unnecessary chains in the wheels of one of our main future industries. As a politician from the north, I get more feedback from the industry that they are meeting with a negative attitude from the state administrator. I assume that the government is following this. Finally, I have to say that the government in the Northern Region Communication proposes a separate investment fund with State and private capital to be managed from the north. This has been requested from the business community in the north, and it is important that it now comes into place. The fund can give us the opportunity to develop North Norway as a resourceful and viable part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1403	North Norway is referred to as the part of the country of opportunity, and that's because it is. There are enormous opportunities in North Norway – for Norway, for the world. People, fish, minerals, mountains, northern lights, midnight sun and a lot of weather, it gives opportunities. If there's one thing we in North Norway are tired of, there's party speeches and descriptions of all that I just said. What you want and require is action. These are concrete measures. What do we do with population development, which is so dramaticly negative? What are the measures? For the Workers' Party, it's essential to think about the northern regions in everything we do. We have a proud story, from Thorvald Stoltenberg, of which there is a bust in the Church's memory of the establishment of Barents' cooperation, and to the dividing line with Russia and Jonas Gahr Støre, who also turned the mental maps when it comes to looking at the north. We're going to be proud of that, because it's something to be proud of. I'm also very happy that we have a lot of competent local and regional politicians in North Norway who understand this, who work on this every day. Some of the most rewarding things I worked with when I was head of state council in Troms, was just this work. Look at the results of cooperation with Russia, Sweden and Finland — what is done locally — gives results. It ensures low voltage and good neighbourhood. It's going to be attractive to live in the north, but then we also have to have infrastructure. I hear you're just trying to hustle a little bit about the fact that the Workers' Party has made a wise decision about the North Norwegian Railway. I'm very proud of that decision. It was done two days ago, which is why a proposal is being made today. What's so good is that there are now four parties in this room that form a majority I'm sure will be able to get to a majority when we're going to vote on this matter tomorrow. That's our job. Instead of harselling over one proposal or another, it is our job on behalf of those who live in North Norway, those who are concerned about this matter, to find together. The working party is ready for that, so a little fuss there I think is better than talking down the different suggestions. That's two good suggestions. Then I would just like to say to the case rapporteur, the representative, Mr Schou, that putting the rest of the country up against the north-norway from this pulpit, I just have to say that I don't accept it, but that's what the rapporteur did last time she stood on the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1416	Once again, we are about to do the regular ritual: to deal with the Northern Territory Communication, where everyone comes up to this pulpit and boasts and says how nice and beautiful it is in the north, has lots of visions on behalf of the continent, but unfortunately there is – as usual – no concrete policy. I notice that there is some concrete policy when it comes to public jobs. It is well and good, but the big thing that unfortunately holds North Norway back, all parties other than the Progress Party must take responsibility for, because it is about protection ahead of industry. It's about not being allowed to use North Norway, the part of the country that's so rich in resources. It's about being allowed to develop petroleum industry in the Lofoten and the West Pole. It's about being allowed to create jobs through the mineral industry, which is practically impossible today, if you haven't been on-the-go by another world, which Nussir had, but then it takes a very long time to get a positive answer. The last government put the Nussir case in the desk drawer. The Right Party and Advance Party government picked it up and at least took hold of it, but there is a long way forward where a decision can be made, set in motion and create jobs and value creation for the whole of the country. That's the problem. Nor does it make any difference that we have a combination that does what they can to stop the creation of new jobs. It's also a problem that, unfortunately, this great crowd has given too much power, and that's part of holding North Norway back. These are the concrete things this should be about, not the grand views. It's about how people can live and work in the north. People live where they get work, and we also have to work in other than the public sector. Then we have to build the mineral industry, then we have to expand the petroleum sector even more in the north, and then we have to make it possible for us to use the huge natural resources we have in our part of the country. I notice that the Workers' Party has sent out a press release that they are for the North Norwegian Railway. I guess that's good. I note that it is an investigation proposal and in that way it is not very different from what the Workers' Party has already agreed to propose in the past, and that, to the extent that the government is also in the process of evaluating, because an investigation is in progress. So I ask the question to the Workers' Party: what's new about what the Workers' Party decided at its national meeting? I can't read anything other than that it's a proposal to investigate for having a goal far ahead. It's not a concrete proposal to build the North Norwegian Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1431	First, I would like to pay tribute to the inclusion of a separate youth panel in the work on the message. This is a good example for follow-up. So to the message itself. It started out so well with fine suggestions that we need a strong, viable, competent North Norway. It is clear that economic and social development in the north is a national issue, i.e. everyone's responsibility, and that the region has a rich resource base that contributes to economic growth throughout the country. It's all right, and of course I agree with all of this. But is there a real political will for action by the government parties to achieve all the ambitions of the communication? Boating activity and well-being are among the overall objectives of policy in the north, according to this Communication. And how has it gone so far? The move from the north is higher than ever, and the government has not taken the necessary steps to stop it. Of course, there are many factors that play in, and one of them was lit by the NRK last week, namely that in District Norway in general, and in the north in particular, it costs more to build a house than the value of it when you put the key in the door. That way, you don't get to borrow what's necessary. The centre party has proposed a simple and effective solution to the gap covered by a favourable Husbank scheme. At the same time, we also have to look at what's called freight balancing, because the cost of goods in the north is at least 10 pst. more expensive than other places in the country, nor does it contribute to a significant increase in the desire to live and build. Furthermore, the Communication states that the government is following up the objectives of the North Sea Strategy to improve access to knowledge and competence. Can the government then elaborate in what way the closure of Campus Nesna has helped improve access to knowledge and competence in the north? I am very grateful that the Central Party has promised to restore Campus Nesna, but it is a tragedy for this part of North Norway that the government allowed the liquidation to happen. Governing the country in a wild direction requires political action when it is socially necessary, and today's government unfortunately does not want that direction to be north. The proposal for a decision in the long-term defence plan states that management elements should be moved to North Norway. Why is that not mentioned in one word in the North Sea Communication we are now debating? And, in general, there is a lack of a more comprehensive north-eastern policy – that it is also left in other large-scale communications, in government plans and in different budgets. Finally, the centre party is involved in promoting a number of good suggestions on the matter. A connection to them would have shown that the majority of the Storting actually wants to prioritise North Norway in action, and not just in beautiful words. We don't have it broken in the north, but we need bets equivalent to a few hundred meters of E18.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1448	Everyone wants development – and not liquidation. And I want to say, centralization has to stop. Different societies must have the same benefits, for example: police, health services and schools. It should be a matter of course. A lot of people in the north are pissed off. They've had enough of customs. The coercion of Troms and Finnmark was probably the drop. People are occupied with their municipality, their culture and their home. There's a reason people settle down and use their lives there. They'll take care of themselves, pay the bills. I come from Finnmark, and what I now say can be transferred to other parts of the country. It is still possible to revitalise the coast of the interior of Finnland in agriculture, but then it has to be redeployed. It's got to bet. The size must be wild. There must be equal opportunities for trade in Finnmark as in other counties. Safety and preparedness must be put in place. What happens if we protect the resources in the Barents Sea – cod war against the EU? We'll be able to deal with it. Money must be invested in cooperation with counties and municipalities. We can easily double the population of many municipalities in the districts. I've said in the past that we produce fish for a value of 1 million. kr per capita in my municipality. It is good, but when you ask for help to have a port muddy to get the boats to dock, it is difficult to hear. What's the bet? The county has got these tasks, but is not able to do anything about it. Coastal people will have full-time jobs in the fishing industry, while trawlers and some larger coastal fleets – which should have as their primary objective to help achieve this – will only provide foreign production there and create tens of thousands of jobs on Norwegian fish, while people along the coast will walk on Nav. What's the bet? The government knows this. The Trolls earn roughly money, both shipowners and crews, but for the communities along the coast of North Norway, which the Stortinget would help with trawlers when they gave exemption from the participant law, where it is broken. There are not many full-time jobs. I have faith in people and know that more and more people see that unemployment is the root of all evil. Most of it we can do something about the simple redistribution of fish resources. We can create thousands of jobs on the ocean and land. We have to bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1463	The ‘north area message’ sounds nice and nice, but the reality is that today we are dealing with another message from this government that is only a situational description of North Norway. Not a single measure has been launched in this Communication. Not a single one! I think I'm talking on behalf of the whole North Norway when I say it's disappointing. The situation of North Norway when it comes to population is serious. Never before has the statistics for migration from the north been as high as it is now. I think much of the reason for that is because North Norway has been down-prioritized time and time again by this government. Important emergency services such as police and ambulance are centralised, important emergency services to provide people with the security they need to live in a part of the country that is slightly different from the rest of the country with its huge geography and its great distances. The Nordgebiet Message is about the big picture, yes. But in the situation we're in now, with a part of the country experiencing a lot of relocation, I wonder why not the government has assessed one single measure, one single instrument, in this message. The centre party has put in a number of important proposals in this case, which unfortunately do not seem to have a majority. I'm going to spend the rest of my time now talking about the North Norway Railway, an important project that should be given status as the next major national initiative in the north and that should be lifted out of the national transport plan and into as a separate project. I had thought this could be a historic day. For everyone who has attended the national meeting of the Workers' Party this weekend, this was one of the things they had at least announced to the media in North Norway, that they are going to realize the North Norwegian Railway. But the proposal they are making today, we believe, is too vague and does not oblige enough. Today, the Central Party has a proposal on it in this matter, which only lacks the votes of the Labour Party in order to obtain a majority. And then I don't understand why the Labour Party can't vote for that proposal. Why won't the Workers' Party commit? Here you had the opportunity of the times, the day after the national meeting, to form a majority for this. So I want to challenge the Labour Party to vote for the proposal that is in it, from the Central Party, the Advance Party and SV, instead of making a vague proposal for an investigation, which is not binding enough. That's not good enough. I really want to find a solution in this matter. We owe it to the whole of North Norway. So I'm going to challenge the Workers' Party whether it's completely out of date to support the proposal that's in place now, from the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party. I would challenge the Labour Party from this pulpit to go into that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1478	We're taking a little rock on the list of speakers. Hairy Elves first. Maybe it'll be a big rock? That makes us listen to it. Next is Åsunn Lyngedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1483	The representative Eide of the Socialist Left Party had difficulty seeing that Russia's conduct towards Ukraine has implications for Norwegian defence and security policy. It has, and it has good reason. Ukraine is a neighbouring country to Russia, which is Norway's neighbouring country to Russia. It is within the Russian self-understanding of their foreign policy that their peripheral states should listen to, and, in the worst case, conform to, Russian foreign policy. Norway is a peripheral country to Russia, and therefore it is so important that we are clear in our signaling to Russia that this kind of behaviour towards Norway will never be accepted. We must remember that for the first time since World War II, a foreign power has entered another country, occupied and taken part of that country. Clearly it makes the impression of Norway and Norwegian political leadership with the location we have, as the geopolitically exposed country we can be, in a possible conflict. I noticed the representative Navarsete, who claimed it had become a shift in how we set up our defence policy and lean more on the ally's leg. That's not right. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained, Norwegian defence policy is based on three bones, including: Our bilateral cooperation, which we have now strengthened with the United States, and our national defence. Then I have to remember what was the situation in our national defense, and what is the situation now. So, in 2013, we were facing a possible downturn in defence if not 180 billion. kr more was added to the table, to the defense, over the next 20 years. This government has reversed the development of Defence, and gradually restored our defence capabilities. We have to remember that the predominantly operational structure of our defence is located in North Norway, with good reason. It is also for good reason that we now buy new surveillance aircraft, we buy new fighter aircraft, we buy after each new submarine, just to be able to fulfil our role and have good situational understanding and ability to assert sovereignty, on behalf of Norway and on behalf of NATO. Then the joyous side effect of this is that in fact 5,000 employees in the Defense and over 4,000 soldiers each day have their work in the District. If you calculate this in dollars and cents, it has a turnover effect of about 4.5 billion. kr per year. It is also worth mentioning in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1492	One of the challenges for North Norway that I have always been concerned with is that while Norway has increased its population by between 20 and 25 pst. In the last fifty years, the population of northern Norway has fallen. We're good at creating in the north, and that's right when the government, and many of us, describes that great values are created in the north, but the good news is that we can create a lot more. Then I want to talk about infrastructure and knowledge. We heard from the district minister that there was a formidable investment in infrastructure in the north. Sorry – but we who live here have seen something else. We have seen a government that has not managed to launch a single road project in the north, except those that were finally adopted in the NTP before they took over in 2013. We have seen the fishing ports this between all the chairs in connection with the regional reform. Planning was stopped, and implementation was halted, pending a reform, and fisheries in the north have suffered from it. We've seen a government that has had zero new projects on rail in North Norway in all its eight budgets. Even the increase in capacity on Ofotbanen, that there would be room for several trains, which was there for 2013, is not a priority and is not implemented. I also think it's a clever solution you've chosen for North Norway, after giving it a priority for so long, that you're going to make a KVU. A KVU for North Norway -- we don't use to make a KVU for half the country. KVUs are for smaller-scale projects, and then the national transport plan, where we refer to our efforts. And when we're going to build the North-Norway, it's going to be built on the top of a croc trail – a four-field road, after driving on a croc trail – which is the railway in North Norway has to be said to be today. On the Ofot Railway, most of the iron ore needed by Europe goes to which they have access on their own continent. It is important for the whole of Europe, and it is a security issue that we have capacity in this year of export. At the same time, fresh fish deserve good export routes from the north. Here, Ofotbanen is central and does a lot of transport work. However, lack of capacity, reliability and punctuality means that vehicle combinations are in line, especially on Bjørnberg, on Europe Road 10, which is to be carried on fresh fish. Why does the government not strengthen the electrified road out of North Norway, so that we can get emission-free fresh fish transport? That's how people know best what they see around them at all times. That means that we have to bet on the educational institutions in the north, on the North University and on the UiT, because it's the ones that can find the good solutions for North Norway and for the new we're going to create in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1506	I want to start the post by answering the Central Party and the Advance Party on the Railway, because they use quite strong words for which there is no basis at all. So the Workers' Party has now put forward a proposal that is in line with the National Assembly of the Workers' Party's unanimous decision, that a thorough decision-making basis be put in place to achieve the North Norway track. Then we can look at what the other parties commit themselves to in their programs. In the programme of the Centre Party, the following point is made about the railway: ‘ — Conduct an investigation of future railway infrastructure in and out of North Norway with a clear objective of achieving increased rail deployment in the north’.» The center party says they'll figure it out, but they don't specifically mention the North Norway track. In other words, they should rather sweep at their own door and walk in themselves when they are about to take this debate to the Stortinget and discuss constructively how to get a majority for what you agree on. SV says in their program that they will prioritize planning for the early realisation of the North Norway Railway. ‘Plating’ is another word for ‘to be assessed’. And the Progress Party says in its program that they will launch impact assessment and expand the North Norway track. I have a little difficulty seeing the big political differences in the three proposals. As far as the Labour Party proposal is concerned, it is usually the case that you are happy when other parties are making proposals that you agree with yourself. Why it's not like that in the hall today, in the rhetoric at least, you can wonder about it. I am in any case pleased with the very clear decision made by the Workers' Party at its national meeting. Then I will ask a specific question to the state council Hofstad Helleland. She has been leading the work on the Right Party Program. We've heard the celebrations here in the hall and then we made the announcement of the north area, but as I said earlier, what you commit to in the party programs is quite important and points out the direction for the next period. On 76 pages of the Right Party Program, they only found space for a few sections on the North Areas. The view on North Norway is almost absent in the rest of the program. The northern regions are mentioned once, except for the sections on the northern regions. You don't even mention North Norway and North. You don't take the word centralization in your mouth and don't mention railway in the north, for example. I could still do so, but what tells me the most about the ambitions of the Right of the North in the next major period is the following sentence, which says at the very beginning: «North Region policy must be brought together on the original objectives, which are a security policy based on deterrence and tranquillity with increased military presence in the north.» – i.e. ‘the original objectives’. What does the Right mean by that? Is it true that Northern Region policy has gone too far in its ambitions? Has it become too wide? Or is it that now, as she sees today, the Council of State of Hofstad Greece will take the initiative to change this wording at the National Council of the Right, for this is to go back in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1530	I think I get to quote Henrik, 10 years: you see, I have so many words inside that just have to out. So I'm using the occasion today, about the northern regions. In my previous post, I talked about international relations. This time I need to say a few things about domestic politics, and what I think is the most important challenge for North Norway. It is not, as the representative Sweetheart thinks, the Sameting that is the biggest challenge. Nor is it, as the representative of Amundsen believes, the overall knowledge-based management of the sea areas that is the problem, or, as Mr Tybring-Gjedde believes, that we base our response to the climate crisis on scientific evidence. What I think is the biggest challenge for North Norway is actually an export issue. It is not a problem that we export in itself, for example. raw materials, but it's a problem that we export brains. That's where we lose the fight, because I think, like the Ministry of Finance, that the most important part of national wealth is the value of our future work. The work is also done by the Nordics, and the change that is taking place is that work is increasingly carried out with the head instead of the hands. So it's more knowledge- and competence-intensive than it's been in the past. When the relative proportion of northern residents goes down in relation to the population of the country, we have a problem. I don't think any parties in this room have yet found the recipe for how we meet it. We would like to talk about centralisation and whether policy contributes to more or less centralisation, but megatrends centralisation have been taking place for 9,000 years since we invented the city. Since then, people have moved from rural to urban areas. If we're going to believe the predictions of the United Nations and others, this will continue to accelerate. How do we meet that in North Norway? Because it has to be attractive to live there. I tried today to challenge the district minister on a question, and then I was accused of black paint, and there was an attack on the Workers' Party on how little we proposed. But my question was, and it remains unanswered here today: What particular political and economic instruments are we willing to use to meet that challenge in North Norway? It's not just me or the Workers' Party that say there are special challenges in North Norway. We've heard a lot of right-wing representatives talk about the exact same thing. But we have not answered: what are the separate political and economic instruments we have? What is the concrete policy? There is a friendly opportunity to answer the question. I will not claim to have all the answers. But I think that when you go out on the streets of Bodø, in my home town, or so far in Tromsø or larger or smaller places in North Norway, what you're asking for there – it's fine with north-eastern politics, we've had for many years, it's raised our self-esteem, it's pointed to the possibilities – will be something we still haven't got: the answer to how we turn the development we're in, which is in the long run a threat to the continent and therefore also to the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1545	When I listen to this debate, I remember how the north-eastern messages have been over the years. It is with pleasure that I can see that the North Region policy has had an important change in course during the efforts of the bourgeois parties. By having gone from large foreign policy views and little concrete in domestic politics, we now have a North Region Communication, the one we are dealing with today, which has a much more correct focus and perspective, namely that if we are to succeed in North Region Policy, we must succeed in making North Norway an attractive region where opportunities are great, which attracts young people, capital and investment for the future. The bourgeois parties have so far tripled reinvestments and invested heavily in transport. The new national transport plan continues this effort and in particular raises the county roads. Education and research are at stake, and UiT has received large investment funds during our reign. It's a billion-dollar amount to the Faculty of Health, we get a new research ship, and we've set up Centers for the Sea and the Arctic. We have a focused effort to get more people to complete and pass, a targeted bet on several skilled teachers, large amounts of money for recruitment, a special scholarship for those who take a job in the north. I could also highlight the commitment made in the field of cancer treatment, the interaction with the private people, and that in the north we have a health service and an environment of competence that is now at the international summit. In sum, it's about having a north-eastern policy with the will to do what really matters to increase private jobs, not just listing emergency units on Jan Mayen or adjustments at the Sami College, as they did under the red-green ones. I think the majority position that is here today is good. It shows the will for further investment in many areas. I want to draw out, for example. bet on space technology in both Tromsø and Andøya or on further testing areas for autonomous maritime vessels. It's about a policy that says yes to the opportunities in our part of the country, a policy that builds up under the opportunities in the north, sustainable growth focusing on minerals, on agriculture, on energy, on oil and gas industries. These are areas where we have seen projects in recent years that get a clear signal, for example, when we gave a clear signal to Nussir, which both provide more jobs and contribute to the green shift, but which encountered resistance from the red-green ones. For me, there's no doubt. North Norway and the northern regions still need a civil policy that helps to underpin this growth and say yes to these opportunities, with more private jobs and no more country, more tax, more protection and less opportunities in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1562	I'm getting questions about the concrete efforts we're making in North Norway and the North. We find them in a lot of documents. We haven't gathered everyone here. It's in the NTP, with many major infrastructure projects. It's in our district policy, with a differentiated employer's fee. It is about the action zone in Finnmark and Nord-Troms, with e.g. exemption from electricity charge, reduced tax, cancellation of student loans for primary school teachers, write-down of student loans. We have not mentioned all these things – or the preparedness or police reform, which we are now beginning to see working, or health. People have to experience good health care. Therefore, I am pleased that the government prioritises health construction investments: new hospital in Hammerfest, in Narvik, on Helgeland, new buildings in Bodø, projects completed under this government, clinic in Alta, new hospital in Kirkenes – I can continue. Here we're trying to raise some visions, some ambitions. What we see as the most important thing is to bet on and facilitate jobs. Then we have to make sure that we focus on skills, on framework conditions, taxes and taxes that enable businesses to create new jobs. We have to bet on good infrastructure. I also see that the government gets a lot of criticism that it has moved people from North Norway. In fact, the main explanation that North Norway has experienced a decline in the population over the last two years is not that more people are moving from the country now than before. The explanation is fewer births, as we see in the rest of District Norway and in the rest of Europe, in less central Europe. We give birth to fewer children, but we also see lower immigration. Immigration has been reduced. The same is true of the number of persons employed, which was 7.8 p.m., from 2001 to 2019. Had it not been for labour immigration, the increase would have been 3 pst. And we're looking at the same thing for the population. Between 2000 and 2021, the population in northern Norway has increased by 3.9 pst. Without immigration, the population would be reduced by 0.1 pst. Interestingly, then, the Workers' Party and the Centre are going to go into government together and play a stake in the EEA Agreement and help to make it even more difficult to get labour immigration to a country that is badly in need of labour, which is badly in need of skilled labour. The main explanation that North Norway has experienced a decline in population is that fewer children are born and that immigration is greatly reduced. The relocation of the rest of the population, i.e. Norwegian-born, is now lower than under the Workers' Party and the Central Party of Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1575	It's great in the north, but it's not because of this government. Why would the government let the robber break the main Sami industry and the culture bearer, the reindeer? In Nordland, the reindeer reports that predatory game takes 75 pst. of the calves. There's no sustainability in it. Representatives from the government parties say that North Norway is coming out of it well in NTP, but if we're betting in the north, why is it just 2.3 pst. of the early start-up projects located north of the Trøndelagsgrensa? In the north we have a large part of the Norwegian coastline, but why is so small, just 2.7 pst. of the whole NTP, coast-related? Why is the railway investment in the Northland only 1 per million of the railway operation in the NTP proposal? Why is the northern part of Norway with the most state road without yellow stripe? What the Workers' Party is doing today is preventing a principle decision that the North Norway Railway should be built. Instead of voting in favour of the proposal to start work on the North Norway Railway, they promote their own proposal. In any case, the Labour Party should vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal for the Centre Party, the Progress Party and the SV. The details of how this should be done must be put in place in any case, so if they think anything about the national meeting decision, they will have a subsidiary vote in favour of our proposal. Back to the NTP: Why are winter roads, the E6 Salt Mountain, the E10 Bear Mountain and the E6 Sennaland, taken out of the NTP bet? Why does faster passenger transport count so much more than faster freight transport in the diet–benefit analyses used when counting on socio-economic profitability? And why is Nordland one of the worst broadband counties? I'd like to say how much for the Borten government that was committed to the short-range network at the end of the 1960s, but why is it in the north that we now have the most expensive airline tickets? And domestic air traffic has to shift to carbon-neutral solutions. The network is well suited for testing electric aircraft, and if you are to bet on the north, the zero-emission bet should be made first in North Norway. In the almost four years I've been on the Stortinget, the Center Party has promoted a number of proposals that would have concrete significance for people's ability to live good lives in the north. That would be good for people, and that would be good for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1590	The criticism that came against the district minister in the replying became even clearer when the minister again went up to the pulpit. For one more round of everything has been secured in North Norway, as if North Norway is not part of Norway, as if North Norway should not also have good health services and roads and district policies and police reform. That's true for our country, it's not true for North Norway alone. Nordic policy is about what comes at the top, what is specific to bet. It's not that saying that you have to give priority to a road map in the East or in the West, or a new hospital or whatever it should be, you say it's south-eastern policy, then it's east-eastern policy. North Norway deserves better than that. So let's see if something happened under the red-green. Yes, it did, in fact, when we started working on the Northern Region policy. But we made room on the state budgets for this. We secured a new research vessel, the Framsenteret, BarentsWatch, the North Region Center in Bodø, the research project in the north. We have been focusing on bio-prospecting at the University of Tromsø, border crossing and the Arctic Council Secretariat and the establishment of Norway's Arctic University – to mention something. It's also the way population numbers actually went up at the end of our reign. So to what now evolves to be a little bit of a petty game about the North Norway track. I think that's sad, and those who voted for us, especially those of us who come from North Norway, probably expect more than that we'll stand here and argue about who has the most obvious suggestion that we are for, or who says most of the time that we're for the North Norway track. What is the reality is that there are four parties that form a majority in this Chamber, which can secure a majority in order to adopt an objective on the North Norway route. That's amazing! It's so good for North Norway. We've been working on this for too long, for many decades. The party that may go the longest in haressing is the party that has been criticising the project for decades, especially in North Norway, the Progress Party. But I admit you've turned around. I recognise that there is a positive decision and a proposal in this Chamber. That's why I stretched out a hand instead and said that when there's a majority, we have to do it on behalf of our voters. We have to make sure that tomorrow will be a positive decision. We're going to do that, and we're going to do it. But I expect the same roughness back again on behalf of those we represent, namely those who live in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1601	Large distances and spreads of population represent geographical and demographic characteristics of North Norway. In order to maintain a high level of service provision and nutrition, and not least to maintain the quality of life in this part of the country, infrastructure is also required. This big message just points to the fact that the development of infrastructure in the north is not only to be assessed by the socio-economic profitability. The government has made substantial investments in the development of both road, port and broadband. It is labour and value creation that is the overriding objective of domestic policy in Norwegian north-eastern politics. Northern Norse cities and agglomerations have an important role as local and regional power centres and are crucial for ensuring the construction activity in the north. Technological innovation and digitisation will be important in order to achieve these objectives by contributing to business development and to good services and also to simplifying everyday life despite the large distances. In the Committee's comments, the Right refers to the hearing recorded by the Maritime Forum on the creation of a test area for autonomy in the Arctic environment. Norway already has the corresponding test area in Trondheimsfjorden, Horten and Storfjorden. However, as the commercial activity in the north will increase in the coming years, it is necessary to have an area where one can test autonomous vessels in the demanding Arctic waters. It is therefore gratifying and not least important that this be highlighted, and one must consider it a great advantage if Norway could also establish a corresponding test area in an own Arctic environment. The need for electronic communications will grow in the coming years, including in the north. Digital infrastructure has been widely discussed in this message. Good coverage and resilient networks provide an important basis for the developments we want to see, with new jobs and businesses both in the districts and not least in the cities of the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1618	The representative, Martin Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1623	The Workers' Party will have a new give in the northern regions. At the end of the debate, I just want to say that I don't know if I got exactly how worried I am about what's in the biggest government election program for the next period. The District Minister will not answer that, perhaps the Foreign Minister can answer that? I am at least among those who take what the parties write in their programs, seriously. In the short sections on the northern regions, the right writes as its main objective: «North-area policy must be brought together on the original objectives, which are a security policy based on deterrence and tranquillity with increased military presence in the north.» I'm wondering what that means. I fear that it means a narrowing of the North Region policy, back to what it was before 2005, a cold war-tank, which is a contrast to the broad North Region policy we actually need. No one argues that the North is a security centre of gravity, but nordic policies also need to address more of what is happening domestically, because it is important for Norwegian security policy in the North as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1635	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1640	Let me say thank you to the District Minister for answers on specific instruments. I agree that a differentiated employer’s fee – a huge investment – student loan cancellation in the north and the action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark are examples of the type of separate economic and political instruments. Our problem – with emphasis on «our» – is that they do not work, or they do not work well enough, because they have not been enough to reverse the trend. The question we have to ask ourselves is, what other kind of instruments do we have and can use? I don't think we've made it far enough. I believe, like the representative Myrseth, that arguing that a hospital in North Norway is a Northern Region measure is a bit like that on the side. One of the things that's important is building a knowledge hub and building a knowledge structure in the north. Then strengthening our universities will be important in the future. For example, we also have a Northern Region Centre in Bodø, at Nord universitet, as for example. is engaged in social research, which is largely lacking in the north. They have a good contact network in Russia. It wants the Workers' Party to further develop and strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1648	As far as the debate is concerned, I just want to respond to a few of the reflections that the representative Sivertsen had related to the environment and the Arctic Council. It is quite right that he points out that those who are the largest emitters, which we discussed in the exchange of lines, are also those who have to implement the greatest measures. What, in my opinion, is one of the most positive things about Arctic Council, is that despite the fact that the United States did not wish to refer to, for example, the previous administration. Climate change in the final documents of the Arctic Council ministerial meeting in 2019, which was also the reason we did not receive a final document from the ministerial meeting for the first time, has continued the practical work of the working groups on environmental and climate issues. I think that's very positive. That also means that when we get a whole new emphasis on this topic with the new administration, it's a lot of good work to build on. But it is clear that it has a great and symbolic effect that we get a final opinion from the forthcoming ministerial meeting that also addresses these issues. So, the question of common interests with Russia. We have many, and we have always, both in this government and in previous governments, made it a big point to invest in and manage what we have in common of interests, and that we can only solve jointly when there are challenges. In spite of the pandemic and the fact that it imposes strong restrictions on travel, we have therefore continued to implement, for example. Commission meetings digitally. Of course, that's not the same thing as meeting, but it's at least one way to keep the work going. As for the cod stock and its management, I think it is perhaps one of the best examples of how this cooperation has materialised in the best interests of both countries. So it's now the world's best managed cod strain, which generates revenues of about. 10 B.C.E. kr on each side each year. This is an example that many others are interested in elsewhere in the world, because they see that this cooperation is possible. I shall not go too far with the security policy discussions, especially now that the representative Petter Eide is not here. Nevertheless, it hardly surprises him that we do not share the security policy analysis of what is happening in the north. It is a reality that although Russia does not represent a direct threat to Norway, it is a strategic challenge for NATO. The representative Morten Wold was in for one of the main reasons. There are new strategic capacities that allow the interception of allied support at the GIUK gap, thus posing a strategic threat to NATO. So that's how Norway would never stand in a situation where we don't charge violations of international law. When a country enters and takes a part of another country with power in 2014, it is quite obvious that, together with our close allies, we will be at the forefront of defending international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1661	I note that there are several people who have doubts about the government's motivation and wish for the northern regions. I must say that I feel unwarranted. I think that is an unreasonable criticism. And then we are criticized by the Workers' Party for not having any concrete bets. I could read out the proposals in the Northern Region Communication that are concrete. I refer to the work of other government councils and departments in different fields, which will have a lot to say for North Norway. All the time the working party is so high and dark, it is very special that there are not many concrete suggestions to read in this setting. That's a surprising few. Especially when we could really read that the Workers' Party and the representative Myrseth were out a few months ago and said that we ‘do not customs with our party program’ in the Workers' Party and promised to realize the North Norway Railway, we see today that it is an investigation proposal that comes in addition to the work that the government has already started – it is an investigation proposal. Then you get to argue between the parties about who it is that will support what tomorrow, but to present it as a realization of the North-Norway is well to go a little far. Then I have missed an important point in the debate today. It's about the EEA. We see that North Norway is very dependent on – the whole country depends on – labour immigration. The EEA Agreement and Norway’s link with Europe are important in order to ensure labour force and new citizens. I'm concerned, when we have parties on the Storting that want to put the EEA agreement into play, that it stops the possibility of creating new jobs, and it also affects the national population. There are probably few places that are more dependent on the EEA Agreement than North Norway. Over 80 pst. the export goes to the EEA territory, and when I am in conversation with Norwegian companies, there is nothing else they are more concerned about. We have fishing weather all over the coast of North Norway that will face a very heavy and difficult time if the Senterparte were to come into government and start to play this important agreement. You can ask yourself, ‘ Does the Center Party really listen to people and businesses in the north, like that? ’ on Husøy on Senja with 300 inhabitants, who produce and sell seafood for 1 billion. kr annually. The EEA Agreement is so fundamental to the full functioning of the community. It is therefore also the focus of the government in the North Sea Communication on value creation, opportunities for increased competence, good business environment, infrastructure and growth and development in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1670	Today we are dealing with a big message, and that is just that: a big message. What has not been decided clearly and clearly after this debate, tomorrow, is tumultuous words. There's no content, and that's something that the departments will not necessarily deal with in the future. The real North Region policy, that is the usual policy we are working on every single day – when we are going to adopt a national transport plan, when we are going to adopt a new long-term defence plan, which we have just adopted, when we are going to implement even more stringent climate measures that restrict the population even more, increase petrol prices, etc., which is of great importance in North Norway, and not least protection plans. Because there are two things that are connected, and as you often hear when you talk about North Norway: yes, it's great and nice, you have reindeer and some midnight sun. It's like the postcard of North Norway. That's often what we're talking about. There is no talk of business, and then private business, the basis of jobs, and the reason why people live along the coast. It's because you've been feeding, you've created values, you've generated income for society. And that's what we have to make up for if people are to live in North Norway. You have to have something to do! Then it is reassuring to be more concerned with protecting than with providing jobs. Then I – there were others who were involved – talk about Nussir, for example, which is the star example. Work had to be done there for 15 to 20 years in order to realize a project that had to be handled by three departments, two directorates and finally had to be dealt with twice in government before the decision was finally taken, and it could be started. But even then you're not done, because of course the whole thing doesn't work out. They continue and try to stop a legally adopted project by going to the investors. One quite, let's say, unprofessional approach from the Sameting. It's also about how we're allowed to use our field. It's about motor travel in the outfield, that we're allowed to use nature in every way, where there's room for all of us. It is through the concrete policy we are building North Norway and creating North Norway that can be the economic engine for the whole of Norway in the future – because it can and will be North Norway. We have a higher economic growth compared to the rest of the country, and that's precisely because we have the unique nutrient base. But then we have to be allowed to use it, and we do that in practical politics, we do that by stopping protective plans, we do that by drilling for oil and gas in the Lofoten and the West Pole, and we do that by allowing the industry, the mineral industry, to develop and by building the land. It's the real policy of North Norway, not party speakers, not high-flying foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1679	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1696	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes in addition to the allocated speaking time will also be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1703	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important theme and the Committee for Good Cooperation in a very hectic interview. An overall committee is concerned about the young people who fall outside and the consequences if they become permanent. Many of the young people who are outside have low formal qualifications, lack of work experience and, in general, health problems. A large proportion of those who get ill are mentally ill, and more come from low-income families. This shows the importance of early and targeted efforts. Technology, modern medicine and new treatments allow more people to participate, in whole or in part, in the workplace. Participation in the labour market provides good and meaningful activity while being health-intensive and socially viable. The Committee agrees that it is a central part of the welfare model that those who can and will work will have jobs. The right will highlight the importance of youth action, and early follow-up is central. Furthermore, individual job support has proved to be a good measure, where job-oriented follow-up is an integral part of the treatment. As of 2021, individual job support schemes aimed at young people under 30 years of age with mental health problems and/or drug problems are therefore established. The representative proposal refers to the interaction model in Saltdal. In general, the right wants to encourage this type of cross-sectoral cooperation, but insists on the fact that the choice of different instruments and the level of action has been delegated to the Labour and Welfare Act. As politicians, we need to give room for action and incentives to innovate while giving Nav the back coverage they need to engage with actors who will contribute. The government has therefore asked the Employment and Welfare Directorate to consider how to better facilitate the participation of social entrepreneurs and non-profit enterprises in the acquisition of labour market measures, in order to create social innovation. There are many actors working to include vulnerable young people through good interaction. In the municipality of Asker, they view well-being as an investment, not an expense, and they give exposed persons total help over a longer period of time. A young boy experienced that he was selected for the first time first on the football team, and a father has received faster and better help while not taking time off from work repeatedly to attend various meetings. The system chooses to invest in individuals by taking into account individual needs and assumptions. Cooperation and interaction are central to success, but the choices are made by the individual. This is the welfare society of the future. We need to have more of this. The public sector shall be dimensioned in providing good services and assistance to its citizens, but together with other actors, we can ensure good and adapted assistance to the individual. If we're going to build a tailor, the state can't point out a provider, because we need more social innovation and interaction to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1720	The working party shares the wish of the proposers to include as much as possible in the labour market and to facilitate this. Technology, modern medicine and new treatment methods are currently making it possible for more people to have the opportunity to participate fully or partially in the labour market. Then it is important that society facilitates and supports individuals so that as many as possible can return to work. Participation in the labour market provides good, meaningful and healthful activities for individuals, while at the same time it is profitable for society. A central part of the Norwegian welfare model is precisely that those who can and will work should work, while at the same time the welfare society should take care of those who cannot. We all agree on this – so I hope that neither the consensus nor the commitment of the young stop there. In the last ten years, there have been more than a double in the number of young people unemployed. There is reason to call both for a strong warning and for young people to take a hold. The Labour Party is very concerned about the increase of young people in health-related benefits and that almost 70 pst. of these have mental health problems. Psychiatric health problems must not become a pathway to navigable life-long passive benefits. Young people have potential for a long working life ahead of them. The loss is therefore great for individuals as well as for society if persons from an early age remain out of work. The working party is very critical that the government has done nothing more to reverse a trend where more and more young people become dependent on health-related benefits. In this area, the government has spent small amounts on the major tasks. The working party will not be passive to look at this development. We are very pleased that we recently put in place a youth package – even if it was against the votes of the government parties. We also propose an activity and job reform for new recipients of redundancy benefits or disability benefits. A job guarantee shall be provided to those who are able to work, ensuring that there is a real opportunity to combine social security and work. Furthermore, in this case, the Labour Party proposes better coordination of services in the health sector, the Nav and the education system, so that young people are given a comprehensive follow-up adapted to the individual with a focus on activity and mastering. In addition to more young people entering normal working life, there is also a need to increase the number of jobs in growing enterprises, as the Workers' Party has entered into our alternative budgets. Increased awareness of mental health is at the heart of what we propose. In addition to supporting the suspension, I would also like to mention the proposal of the Workers' Party together with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1739	The representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1744	In a case like this, which is something the Progress Party has been working for too long, it could be tempting to go on with the story of the promises of certain parties and how it has been followed up or not followed up through several cases. But I believe the matter is too serious to pursue political polemics, and that is why I am not going to do so today. How we can help people who are struggling for different reasons is something that is a cross-political desire to do something about. We can have different solutions to what's best, but I think we're all startled by the increase in the number of miscarriages – and especially when we see that it's younger who's getting much worse. There are also different parties, because the Progress Party is clear that each individual is different, has different dreams, has different opportunities, has different challenges and different abilities. When we mean it, we also believe that the whole tool must be able to see the individual and not run standardized templates. Then we have to learn. We need to learn from each other, learn from different actors – municipal, private and non-profit – how to solve challenges in other countries. However, in Norway today we have a good example, which is why we are promoting this proposal for a representative as well, on how we can help young people who fall outside. The Saltdal model, developed in the municipality of Saltdal between the RIBO Foundation, Health Nord Foundation and the growth company Vev-Al-Plast, has shown a good way to work on and with very good results, for this model's ability to see the individual, to think completely and not least about the opportunities each individual has, instead of just focusing on the challenges. So the salt valley model builds up under the whole human being, instead of seeing it in isolation. The Progress Party has therefore wanted to lift the Saltdal model to become a national pilot. I also expect the Council of State to read the comments carefully and also to record that there is a majority in this room that is clear that much of the methodology behind the Saltdal model should be used to the greatest extent. I also hope that the Council of State will ensure that the Saltdal model can be made a national pilot. In conclusion, I am pleased that today's Progress Party will also have a majority in favour of our proposal to help more people with reduced working capacity and organisational needs, so that they can work rather than social security and passivity. And that's something the Saltdal model is a good tool for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1759	The Central Party supports Minority Suggestions 1 and 2 in the setting. The background to this proposal from the Progress Party is the experience of the Salt Valley model. I have visited the municipality of Saltdal and looked at the work carried out by the RIBO Foundation in cooperation with the growth company Vev-Al-Plast AS. The RIBO Foundation has an activity based on three headings: equivalence, respect and accountability. The visit and the contact I have had afterwards have given a very good impression of the work being done. The central party’s representative Siv Mossleth has been a proponent to gain the good experience of the Stortinget and beyond in the country. She has done a very important job for the Central Party-led municipality of Saltdal, which is a municipality that has been a driving force for this work for a very long time and has constantly improved the methodology, in cooperation with the specialist health service and Nav. The Progress Party has three proposals in the document. The third proposal will all here in this Chamber, if they follow the setting, support, except SV, and it is a proposal where the Stortinget asks the government to make proposals that can help more people with reduced working capacity and planning needs to work, rather than social security and passivity. The centre party is also in favour of the other two proposals which have not been promoted. One is that the Storting asks the government to take a closer look at the interaction model in Saltdal to ensure future operations, and to assess the possibility of making the approach nationwide, i.e. to consider whether the approach can be made nationwide. The second proposal is that the Stortinget asks the government to carry out an evaluation of the interaction between Nav and the health services, where the main focus should be to promote proposals for better interaction, so that more young people can use their residual ability to work. Interaction between specialist health services and the Nav system is very important. The youth concerned are young people with low formal qualifications, little or no work experience and significant health problems. So it's a demanding job we're facing. The work has been evaluated by Norway's technical and natural sciences universities, and it has been given very good certificates. I would like to underline what is a majority comment from the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party, which says: ‘In order to achieve better interaction between Nav and the health care system, the strategy for work and health needs to be extended to more diagnostic groups than muscle/bone and mental illness.’ The majority are therefore in favour of speeding up the work of the Health Directorate and the Labour and Welfare Directorate in order to extend joint efforts for work and health to all diagnostic groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1778	Disadvantages are to ensure that a person has something to live with the day a host is too sick to work or if he has a disability that makes work difficult. SV believes that disability should be kept at a level that prevents poverty and that families with children and young people should receive more support than today. We have to think that there is a clear link between poverty and poor health. No one gets healthier by having bad advice, nor vice versa. Some also suggest that the conversion of redundancy money has led to more people coming to work. On the contrary, there has been a strong increase, both in the number of disadvantaged and social welfare recipients. The proportion of social assistance recipients has increased by 5 pst., which is a double from before the legislation has been amended. The reform was adopted in 2011. At that time, there was agreement that no one would lose in the reform. When everyone was to move from old to new disability in 2015, the government with the Progress Party and the Right chose to create the conversion that led to a very large amount of lost money. In addition, the government, together with its supporting parties, has cut the child supplement in a way that affects thousands of children with disabled parents. Estimates show that as many as 4,500 young people with disabilities become poorer with the Left Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Advance Party, and the Right Party. Some of what we know is important to ensure that all opportunities for participation in the labour market are good organisation and close health follow-up. There are, of course, different reasons why people are not part of the world of work, but there are ways to ensure that more people can participate. If a user has a physical impairment, personal assistance can ensure that a person can work. The organisation of the workplace or other practical assistance from employers can ensure that more people are able to use their skills. In Stavanger we have Allservice AS, which is a work and inclusion company with the motto ‘all can’. I'm just overindulging in the right idea. If we as a society do what we can to raise what people can, rather than what they don't have the potential to do, we can include more people in the world of work. All-services work systematically to find what the individual feels he or she has mastered through life, and then find work that fits well with what the individual can. Taking away from people's social security and statements and believing that it solves the challenges is completely flawed. They need to be able to take responsibility for their own lives. Work is a good thing for most of us. Not only does it provide income and self-sufficiency, it gives cohesion and community. There may be a sense of amazement and more meaning in everyday life. Many of those outside the labour market experience it as a major issue, and I understand that. SV doesn't think people want to get laid, but many people don't have health to work. Then we'll have good arrangements to secure dignity. With this I take up the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1797	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1802	Being included in the world of work is entirely decisive to the vast majority. Participation gives meaningful life, and it is also an important part of the Norwegian welfare model. We see that too many young people fall outside and become insured at an early age. Recent studies show that approximately 70 pst. of the new disabled between 25 and 29 years of age suffer from mental illness. The government has started a youth effort where young people are given priority at the Nav offices, where they receive rapid follow-up. Individual job support, IPS, provides individual labour rights with follow-up with a view to an effective transition to working life. As of 2021, IPS-ung is established, which is an attempt to provide individual job support for young people under 30 years of age with mental health problems and/or drug problems. The government has a high focus on this issue, with the aim of getting the number of young people down. The employment selection recently produced a report with proposals for action to get more people to work, and this spring comes the news of outreach. It will have a holistic policy to prevent outreach and promote inclusion in the world of work. Competence and ability to improve their results in continuing school, which Minister of Knowledge Guri Melby recently presented, will also have much to say to young people. With the completion reform and greater emphasis on individual follow-up and practical subjects, several can be closed by completing further and becoming qualified for the profession in which the individual bets are made. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that Nav has room for action locally to develop good follow-up models that are adapted to the community. In addition, it is particularly important to facilitate cooperation with social entrepreneurs and the non-profit sector. A lot of good work is already done here, and this interaction should be developed. PitStop in Hordaland, Hopeful in Kristiansand, Hystad Young in Trøndelag, Reko in Steinkjer and Windjammer are all good examples of actors that complement Nav. I've met a lot of social entrepreneurs lately and I've listened to their views and experience of what's going on to help even more people. We need to look at how cooperation between Nav and other actors can be facilitated in a better way. Further development of cooperation between work and health is also central to the group with the need for simultaneous services. The role of the central authority is to provide a good framework for the establishment that promotes the goal of fewer young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1817	In a large welfare system such as Norwegian, one of the eternal challenges is to get different parts of the public, different agencies, to cooperate better. It is precisely for the reason, as the representative Wiborg said, that people rarely have one problem at a time, people have more problems at the same time. And we know that especially standing outside, either because you've dropped out of school, having health problems or something else, also leads to a lot of other issues. So it gets e.g. The hub and health, the hub and the education track to work together and build their offering around the user are a very important challenge, and we have not finished that, to say the least, even though in recent years more efforts have been made to increase efforts on, for example. the field of work and health. An example is individual job support, IPS, where treatment and work inclusion are integrated and targeted at people with mental or drug problems. A recent study shows that 70 pst. are mentally diagnosed by young people who have become immature. An evaluation has been carried out to show that individual job support works, and we have also ordered a new analysis such as: shall study how the labour and health sector cooperates with integrated teams. A new test of individual job support specifically aimed at young people under 30 years of age with mental health problems and/or drug problems starts this year. It's important. In addition, there are a number of other measures to prioritise just young people. Among the most important things is that young people should be given priority in Nav. It also turns out that the Nav follow-up, which aims to be followed up within eight weeks at the latest, works. 90 pst. I'll get it. That's good, and then it's about getting the measures afterwards to be good enough. Several here have mentioned the Saltdal model, and several have also been visiting there, so I can join the list of those who have been visiting there and have been impressed by it. It is doing a lot of good there, and I fully agree – I said that when I was visiting, and I like to repeat it from Stortinget’s pulpit – that there is a model that more people should look at, precisely because they have gone together and looked at both the health and the Nav side. Then, using the possibilities that are in the system, you've been able to get a project that's exciting, and that's a lot to learn from. At the same time, I am skeptical about, as is also stated in my letter of reply, that we are going to go into detailed governance from big business and government, because one of the important reforms that we have had in recent years is that more of this is to be left to the professional evaluations in Nav, and I think that is still a good priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1831	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1836	I am pleased that the Council of State knows the Saltdal model and believes that it is a good model. There is no one who has said that you want to outdo the professional advice or recommendations or anything, no one wants to do it. But when you have a good model, a model that proves to work well, it makes sense, as the council says, that others learn from it. So my question: will the Council of State facilitate more people to learn from the Saltdals model, and will the Council of State ensure that the Saltdals model can become a national pilot, or what to call it, with some extra state resources, so that the Saltdals model can transfer its good knowledge and experience to other places in the country where you want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1843	To the extent that the Saltdal model – which has had a lot of visitors from here, and I know that there are many others who are also interested – needs the Council of State to help more people learn from it, I am of course positive about it. But I have to say that I don't think people out there are starting to learn at the moment the council says that now we can learn, I think people out there are working on what they're doing because they're burning for it, and they're learning all the time, there's a lot of evidence that the Saltdal model is getting a lot of interest, there's a lot of people out there visiting them, and then there's a lot of people learning from it. So this particular question about national pilot: I haven't supported it and must honestly admit that I don't see the need for it either, because the idea is not that we need one such project that does things in a new way. I'd rather rig the system to make it easier everywhere to get that kind of cross-cutting cooperation – like the Saltdal model, but you can also see other ways to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1850	Much of what the Council of State says in its answer is exactly how you work with the Saltdal model already today, so I would like to encourage the Council of State to take a trip up and perhaps get their knowledge of the Saltdal model and how to conduct a good knowledge transfer to others who want it. I noticed that the Council of State opened up and said that he would facilitate that others who want to learn from the Saltdal model can do so. Does this also mean that the Council of State will facilitate the provision of state funds to the Saltdal model, so that others who want to learn from them can be better able to do so, and also that they may be able to expand the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1857	I was, as I mentioned, visiting the Saltdal model. I haven't been a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs so long, a little over a year, so this was one of the things I got before Norway shut down and Korona came. Right now, we are not allowed by the Prime Minister or the Code of Disease Protection to travel anywhere, but I would like to go back to Saltdal and learn even more than I did on the visit about a year ago. And then my point – and it is possible it was a stupid understatement – was that it was as necessary. I guess my point was just that here's the people who learn things all the time. As I understand it, the Saltdal model is concerned about it, they're concerned that they're going to be researched, and they can do it without the council saying that here you have to go and learn, because people are interested in learning like that in general. Then I can't promise any ad hoc support for the Saltdal model, but I can say that it's, I mean, a good example of cooperating across different parts of the public, and positive in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1864	It is better to work a little and use the ability to work, than not to work at all. What we've all experienced lately is a quantum leap in the use of new technology. Many high school students also report that they work much better using data and digital education than they do at school. Is this what the Council of State will look at when it comes to young people — how new technologies can be exploited so that more people can use them and perhaps overcome obstacles that they would otherwise have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1869	That's a very good question. I think that working in other ways can have some negative side to it, just so it's said, it's probably everyone who's been sitting at home and living with infectious diseases regulations at work, marked, but it's obvious that it can also open up the working life of more people, both geographically and for people who don't have as easily to be physically present. It is important to say that there is no need to apologize for not having organized jobs, tools and tools, but I am absolutely sure that the representative does not believe either. The action sector must also work to see how the labour market is changing. I know that Nav has some projects, where they look at, for example. how understanding of technology in young people who may not have been formalised can still be used when entering the labour market. But I am absolutely sure that this can and should we do much more of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1876	I would like to thank the Council of State for its real response so far. It's a rare government council, he's been visiting, he wants more people to visit this. He says that cooperation needs to be improved between Nav and the specialist health service – yes, what else can we want? That's good. This is demanding. It requires a positive will, and I hope, after what the Council of State has now said, that Health Nord and Nav Nordland will provide the appropriations needed to continue the project. It hasn't always been as easy. The Saltdal model is ‘non-profit’, it is long-term work, it is necessary for the length of the rehabilitation, and it is not considered as a detailed management by the Centre Party. It's a model that involves people thinking seas and giving a good offer in the spirit that the Council of State here has well explained. My question is related to all diagnosis groups: will the Council of State go in order that more diagnostic groups than muscle and skeleton and mental illness come under this way to think about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1885	Let me answer the question first. It is clearly an objective that several diagnostic groups should also be included. Then I want to say two other things. One is that I, like everyone else, agree that it is very exciting and very much positive that happens in Saltdal. But at the same time, it's important that one of our challenges in the public sector is that we have a lot of pilots, but we can't spread it, so scale it up. That means that the big challenge in the sector as I see it is, of course, to set up individual projects, but also to get this work across, so that this is not an exceptional case – where you have to travel to beautiful Saltdal, a great tour, a great municipality and a great project. This should be a matter of course everywhere. That's why we've also been dedicated to starting coordination more closely between work and health nationally. The second is that I also think there must be more room in the action sector to try out different ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1894	This case is about how to avoid people being harassed, and there are some who agree that it is important to work with. But one of the more of us is concerned that is important, is the connection between poor health and poverty, and how it reinforces each other as effects. The conversion of redundancy money is likely to have contributed to many more shifting to disability. I believe that the Council of State is well aware of what at least on the left-hand side is a very well-known paradox, that we perceive that the right-hand side thinks that the rich are motivated by more, and that the poor are motivated by less. The legacy of this government for a number of vulnerable groups is that one strangles quite heavily on schemes. Then the question is, why does the government want to tighten up a wide range of welfare schemes, which means that people are put into poverty and get poorer health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1901	Since this is a line chord exchange, you can allow yourself to go a little bit outside the question. The left-hand side already has – at least for itself – its answer to this question. They believe that the Right does this for certain reasons. The interesting question that the left-hand side should ask is, why is there such clear technical advice to do this? Why is that? Now, good people will probably say far out on the left that no environments are non-ideological, and there might be something in it, but still there is clear professional advice like that. If the benefit for a young AAP receiver is too high — not compared to a high salary or something like that, but compared to what peers get — it is in itself that more people can draw on health-related benefits. There's a very clear finding in the research. What does that mean? It suggests that the solution of the left-hand side, where you think you are paying more, will solve the problems of poverty, in the worst case, does the opposite: creating more problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1907	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1912	There has actually been a debate that has been quite unanimous. The reason why I go up and take the word again is the repeated use of the Saltdal model. I welcome the fact that the Right Members of the Labour and Social Committee have also met with those who are doing this, and there is no doubt that this is a good measure. But I'm a little surprised that no more big business representatives chose to come and take the floor here today, because there are some good actions going on around the country. Some were already mentioned here. You have Hopeful in Kristiansand, in Rogaland we have From victim to warrior, and the representative from SV called Allservice, who is a great company in Rogaland who is also working on this here. What I think is important is that we do not ‘namedrops’ anyone and say that we should point out one model that should apply to the whole country. In Nordre Follo, it's a project that deals with beehiveing. It started with a young boy named Baskit. He had one dream in life, and it was starting to make honey, because he liked very good honey in the cooking he was familiar with from his homeland. There are now 20 beekeepers trained in social entrepreneurship. What the three Nav offices up there are saying is that they do this because they believe in this interaction, but they lack and lack the back coverage from us politicians to say that they can get to cooperate with these actors. My recommendation to all my colleagues is that as politicians we also have to give it back coverage to other types of things, so that this is not just a project that is the Saltdal model, which does a lot of good. In Steinkjer you have Reko, which is a collaboration with Health Mid-Norway and Nav. I think we all agree that it works if you interact with different actors, but we have to create a system where others can get in. Regardless of whether it is in Rogaland, in Hordaland, in Agder or in Northern Ireland, we have to find good models for interaction, and we have to tell Nav that we want them to be involved in this cooperation. Then I think we can include a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1921	No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1938	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1945	Let me thank the proposers for addressing issues that have evolved over time, as society has changed without some of our welfare systems having followed. We have long known that in order to maintain a sustainable welfare society, more of us need to work more than today and work longer than before. This means that both the pension system and the other public benefits must help to promote that very thing. This is also the objective and prerequisites of the pension reform, which the proposers correctly voted against. Proposals show the need for both the pension system and other public benefits to follow social developments. Therefore, just one year ago, the government dropped a sample to evaluate the pension reform with a mandate to assess the whole of the pension system and, among other things, to assess it. assess the age limits of the pension scheme in relation to the age limits of other income insurance schemes. This is the Progress Party with which the proposal is really well known, as the party's Vice-Chairman, Terje Søviknes, sits in this selection. The selection was reduced in recognition of the need to further develop the pension scheme and look at possible adjustments to ensure the economic and social sustainability of the pension system. This also includes the assessment of entitlements to day and sick benefits in line with the expected retirement age of the pension reform, as this proposal addresses. The majority of the Committee, all other than the proposers, suggests that, in particular, in the case of the covid-19 pandemic, there have been examples of both workers, self-employed and freelancers who are employed or are active after the age of 67 and who have not had access to income protection in the event of loss of income. Although only a minority are currently in work beyond the age of 67, and this does not apply to many, the average age of departure is increasing. It is both a reason to expect and, not least, a desire for this development to continue. Therefore, the work of the evaluation committee is so important that we both care for the many who still need early retirement on the one hand, and also support the fact that more people both work more and work longer on the other. The majority therefore agree with the proposers to ensure rights to daily and sick pay in line with the expected retirement age, and are pleased that the evaluation committee was already working before this proposal was promoted for the Stortinget. They shall deliver their recommendations as early as March next year. Since the first year coal that is fully covered by new generation rules after the pension reform, the 1963 coal, still has four years to the age limit for early retirement, it will provide us with time for an overall adjustment of the pension system and the other population benefits in line with the intentions of the proposers. This is why the majority of the committee believes that the presale has been preserved and can be rejected, but it is good that the issue is addressed, so that more people are aware that this is already being worked on. Everyone agrees that both the pension system and the rest of the population benefits follow social development and that we are well served to remove barriers to participation in the labour market, regardless of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1960	Thanks to the rapporteur for the work that has been done, as always, whether we agree or disagree on the matter. In this case, all other parties, including the Workers' Party, stand together to reject the proposal of the Advance Party. I'm still going to pay tribute to the Progress Party for never giving up, but I'm going to go on and on with their many curvatures in order to substantiate the fact that in government they actually joined the pension reform. It has been confirmed by Siv Jensen on direct questions from me in Stortinget. This applies to the matter itself, to ensuring rights to daily and sick benefits in line with the expected retirement age of the pension reform. First of all, it is based on a false assumption that everyone born between 1954 and 1962 must be working at 72 years of age to achieve the same pension as today's 67-year-olds on an old pension scheme. Had it been the case, it could have put the matter in a slightly different light. I do not know how the Progress Party defines the expected retirement age, but it must be reasonable to vary to the age set for each year's coal in order to compensate for the retirement age adjustment. It is only those who were born in 1985 who are expected to have to work until they are 72 years old to fully compensate, but a lot can happen within that time. For the time being, this age group is only halfway to the age of 72. The progress party has correctly corrected this in its comments on the matter. In addition, in his letter to the Committee, the Council of State has said that he agrees with the proposers that the current age limits for daily allowances and sick leave can be considered to be unreasonably low if younger annual leave is significantly longer than current senior leavers. For the time being, there is a minority working beyond the age of 67. In addition, in just over ten months' time, the pension committee will come up with its assessment of the exact question raised by the Progress Party in the proposal for a representative, namely an assessment of the age limits of the pension system and of the other income insurance schemes. The progress party actually opens the doors in this case. The Progress Party asks the Government in its proposal to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure the right to daily allowances and sick pay up to the age of 72, despite the fact that the Council of State indicates that an investigation of this is already under way. How double investigations should serve the matter is not easy to see. This might well lead to a delay. The Labour Party therefore agrees with the other parties that the proposal is not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1975	This year it is 10 years since the pension reform was finally adopted by the Stortinget, with the support of all parties, except the Progress Party. The pension reform was a cut reform, the aim of which was to reduce pensions for most people, despite the fact that these were worked-out rights people had. The Progress Party was the only party that voted against the reform, and we worked for ten years to reverse several of the unfortunate aspects of the reform. Sometimes we got some penetration, but most of the time we were dismayed by the same parties – unfortunately. But we did not, and did something as untraditional as that we joined with the Socialist Left Party, with the support of the Pensionist League, and presented a compromise proposal last autumn, which was discussed in February of this year. Luckily, we got a good throughput, for example. in order to eliminate the extremely unreasonable underregulation of 0,75 p.m., and to ensure that the country's pensioners will rather have their current pension regulated by the average wage and price increase. It was an important victory for the country's pensioners. But it is still a premise in the pension system that future generations have to work a little longer to get a pension similar to today's pensioners. It's not unreasonable in itself, because when we live longer, fresher, it's quite natural that some of it is also taken out by standing a little longer in work. I think we all agree. But when we say that people are going to do something longer in work, of course, the rights they have in the workplace also have to follow. On the one hand, you say, yes, you have to stand longer at work. On the other hand, they say, "But you're going to be a b-worker, because you're not going to have the right to earned rights like a day's pay and sick pay." That is what the Progress Party thinks is strange. Especially now under the pandemic, we've seen more examples of this. People who have chosen to follow the recommendation of the Council of State and the Prime Minister to stay longer in work and do so because they want to contribute are so permissive and without income, without getting any daily allowance because of these completely meaningless age limits. That is why I am now discussing the proposal the Progress Party has made: it must be a context – when the pension system says that you should work longer, the rights to sickness benefits and daily allowances must also be passed on accordingly. I will also give the representative Lise Christoffersen quite rightly: the Progress Party is going to continue this fight. Although the Workers' Party disagrees with us, we continue until we have improved the situation of the country's pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1988	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e1993	After Wiborg's posts, I have to say that until 13 January 2020, the Progress Party was put in government. I asked the Council of State Robert Eriksson about this issue on 13 April 2015. Then the state councils answered: ‘The government will also take a closer look at welfare benefits for people over 62 years of age, including sickness benefits and pensions.’ Nothing happened. When the representative from the Advance Party is now so tall and dark, I think he should be a little more sober in relation to what actually happened on the Guard of the Advance Party. The Norwegian people have improved their health. It's less wear, it's less lifestyle disease, and older people can work longer – and those who can do it are lucky. They're incredibly lucky. This shows that preventive health work has produced good results, and this has also led to a life expectancy adjustment in the population's population, which means that people of the 1963s get an age limit of 69.5 years to get a full pension, compared to 67, as it has been in the past. It is good to have better health. The centre party is in favour of the intention of the proposal of the Progress Party. The 67-year-old limit is unreasonably low, and it is for us whether there are few or many who come into contact with that limit. There are many over 67 years of age who do temporary work, including paid work. For the treatment of Prop. 16 L 2010–2011 from the red-green government, no decision was made as to the impact of flexible retirement pension from 1 January 2011. However, sick pay was cleared according to normal rules up to 67 years of age, even when you have taken out an old age pension. Persons from 67 to 70 years of age with an employee income above 2G were granted a limited entitlement to sickness benefit of up to 60 sick pay days — regardless of whether or not an old age pension was taken out. There was no entitlement to sick pay for people over 70 years of age, and that is the legislation today. The central party joins the majority that this is an important issue that needs to be addressed by the pension commission. It has to give up its position early in 2022, so it can do a good job within the reasonable timescales. This is a big and demanding case, which requires proper processing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2011	SV is for a pension scheme that guarantees all a safe pension with a public benefit as the basic plan of the pension scheme. People's Security is the foundation of our retirement. It secures all a minimum guaranteed pension level and provides the right pension for those in employment. As many others in the Labour and Social Committee, I would like to refer to the evaluation selection of the pension reform, which is just to look at the age limits of the pension system up against the age limits of other income insurance schemes. Born in 1963, the first year coal under the new pension schemes is fully covered, and there are four years to it when the age limit for early retirement is reached. As others have also stated, in less than one year, in March 2022, the pension commission shall make its recommendation. Then there will be sufficient time and a sufficient basis to make adjustments to the pension reform, precisely to ensure some of the points made by the proposal of the Progress Party. From my point of view, there is the hope of a political shift in Norway in the fall, with a new red-green government to be set up with workers, who will restore safety in the workplace and ensure good pension conditions. And I am sure that a strong SV, along with a red-green multiple, can help to make good adjustments to the pension reform during the next major period. It will be an important matter to get to the early next spring. Let there be no doubt that SV will work to counteract cutbacks and the socially unfair aspects of pension reform. We have clearly stated that we want to make it easier for workers to raise their pensions, among other things. through the provision of a service pension from the first crown. It's a measure for us that it should apply to all income, regardless of the age, the size of the position or the duration. The pension system shall ensure that all occupations provide full ignition capability, including a profession that is physically and mentally demanding. The pension reform is a cut in pension payments for a very large number of people, and it is a special case of postponing a working group. It facilitates more private pension savings, while at the same time it is socially unfair. Of course, we want all workers to be income-secured either by pension, unemployment benefit or sick pay if a person is sick. And it's important to coordinate different legislation to ensure that no one falls outside the safety net we're going to have in Norway. It is important that the evaluations from the evaluation selection of the pension reform provide a basis for this, but also for other important adjustments in the pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2030	How long tomorrow's elders are going to be at work, we know little about it. Still lower pension levels for a given retirement age, as well as better health status, suggest that younger generations will be longer at work. At the same time, the development of wealth can also lead to a desire for more leisure time, including longer time as a retired person. Today it is common to work at the age of 65–66, but it is very widespread. Someone goes off as soon as they have a chance, i.e. at the age of 62, while others work well beyond the age of 67. With current legislation, daily allowances, sickness benefits, redundancy benefits and disability benefits can be provided up to 67 years of age, which is also the age when everyone has an unconditional right to retirement. At the same time, many people aged 62–66 may be entitled to both old-age pensions from social security and other benefits such as day-to-day benefits and sickness benefits. The division of labour between the age pension of the population and other benefits involves some conflicting considerations. It is important that those who cannot work because of sickness or unemployment receive a good pension, while at the same time ensuring good incentives for work. I believe it is important that the income insurance schemes support below the working line, and that the upper age limit for the receipt of these benefits is not significantly higher than the normal retirement age from work. I agree with the rapporteurs that the age limits currently in force appear to be unreasonably low if the younger age limits are significantly longer in work than current seniors. Nevertheless, a minority is still at work for 67 years. In the longer term, I think it would be common to work beyond the age of 67, and then there will also be a need to assess changes in age limits – both in the age pension of the population and in other income insurance schemes. As the majority of the Committee refers to, the government has set up a sample to evaluate the pension reform. The mandate of the sample states that the sample ‘must assess the age limits of the pension system in the context of an assessment of the age limits of other income insurance schemes and the trend in age at which withdrawal from the labour market is common’. The committee shall deliver its opinion in March 2022. In order to ensure a thorough investigation, I believe, as the majority of the committee, that we should await the outcome of the sample before continuing to assess changes in the age limits of the income protection systems of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2043	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2048	The Pensions Committee was appointed on 12 June last year, a number of which have been involved, and the Council of State has informed the Stortinget in its letter that an inquiry into the proposal of the Progress Party is already under way. Then I wonder if the Council of State can confirm or suggest – i.e., if, on the basis of the proposals of the Progress Party, a parallel investigation of a proposal that is already under investigation and has been for some time – how likely is it that such a parallel investigation would lead to a faster legislative change than the course to which the Council of State has already submitted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2054	That's perhaps the hardest question I've got in my time as the Council of State. It's hard to say like that on the standing foot. These are rather complicated questions, and that's all pension issues. This involves both budgetary and regular assessments plus, of course, what is most important, projections, where external expert environments, etc. need to be borrowed. It's not possible to put two lines under the answer, but if we were to throw around now, it's probably not, I think, that we would get an equally well-prepared proposal something especially before March 2022, to say it that way. I also think that the majority's comment here makes sense, and there's a reason why this has been inserted into a commission that's going to look at the whole of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2059	I have another hard question. If I interpret the Council of States correctly, it is at least a small probability that a parallel investigation may actually lead to the proposal that comes back to the Grand Duchy in the form of law being delayed and not accelerated, with the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2064	I just have to stress when I get the question now, that we haven't examined this, simply. We did not specifically sit down and look at this matter. With that reservation, which is quite important, it is not possible for me to give a clear answer to it, but based on – what to say – qualified perception from a government council, there is a reason why we have put this into a commission. Because it's complicated, because it's difficult, and because it has to be done alongside other work, I can't see that it could do anything much faster. But again – it is difficult for me to answer. If you ask us to create a potential work plan with the resources that the ministry has available, I don't think there's any skill, to say it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2069	The Council of State is an experienced politician. It's beginning to be a good lot of years since he and I met in various school debates. It was also a time when the Council of State spoke and conducted Right-wing policy. But as an experienced politician, you know that if there are any questions you don't want to take a stand on, you say it needs to be investigated further. You push it to a commission, a selection, etc. In the last few months, we've discussed underregulation, we've discussed curtailment, we've discussed the right to negotiate for pensioners, we've discussed increase so that the minimum pensioners get over the poverty line, etc. The Government's response is that we have to wait for the pension commission all the time. Does that mean that the Council of State does not have any independent views on those questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2076	Well then, I have opinions on a lot of strange and important, I. It is true that sometimes, in politics, investigations or collecting knowledge or conducting thorough investigations can be used as a pretext for not doing anything. But sometimes it also makes sense to deal with whole, difficult, complex issues with great implications both for future generations and for our common finances, in a comprehensive and comprehensive way. So when the majority of the Stortinges have been careful about making big changes in the pension system like that over the table, it's precisely because here you can see that there are consequences that can be unintended and unwanted. A good example from previous discussions about this: we know that although it is very important and correct in the idea of higher minimum benefits in retirement, it also has something to say about when people can take out their pension, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2083	The conditions we are discussing now are clarified in the People's Security Act. The third paragraph of Paragraphs 8 to 51 of the Law on Social Security is now as follows: ‘Sickness benefits from social security are paid up to 60 sick pay days to a member between 67 and 70 years of age. There are different reasons why people between 67 and 70 years of age have low incomes. There may be part-time work, there may be conditions like working part-yearly. My question is, why does an income of more than 2G be required to qualify for 60 sick pay days?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2097	The reason why there is a restriction here is that older workers may have some specific challenges. One can have a more demanding health situation, for example: The starting point for this discussion is that a majority of the Stortinget, myself and the government parties included, agree that there are some issues here collectively that you should look at. Among them is whether to change what are some limitations on the performance of older workers today. At the same time, there is a different balance here, and it is that if you want people to stay longer in work, you can't have a situation where it's considered too risky for employers to hire new senior workers. Today's legislation is well the result of the attempt to balance the two considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2104	Although it was certainly an attempt at a parliamentary insult from the committee leader that the Council of State no longer pursues Right-wing policy, I can assure you that there is no compliment on my part either when I say that the Council of State conducts Right-wing policy, as few others do. But what I wanted to ask was something that has been a recurring message from the Council of State both now and many times before, namely that it is important to stay longer in work. At the same time, we know that there is an increasing uncertainty among very many young people about what kind of working life they expect, what kind of working life stands ahead of us and what kind of work they're going to meet. In this context, an important point from our side is that a pension should be increased from the first to the first, precisely because the working life has been something other than that, where permanent work is no longer as common as before. What do the government councils say about the pension from the first dollar?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2111	I'm for retirement from the first heads. For this reason, the government parties have also participated on a proposal together with the Progress Party to introduce and phase in. I think that's fair. It was part of the negotiations between the social partners for a period of time, but now it makes sense that the Storting is taking action, and that has been done by the bourgeois majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2116	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2121	There were several interesting things in the loop shift. One was the Council of State and the representative Lise Christoffersen's discussion of the use of time – what goes faster here. I am reasonably sure that the department would be able to change a year in the law, quite simply. That's something you've done before. The size has changed similar issues to this by means of representative proposals. Thus, the size of the population has changed the age of the law in other areas, through loose proposals in the Chamber. So I'm reasonably sure that should be unproblematic. However, in the argument several have used against the proposals of the Progress Party here today, there are several who argue that this applies to a minority – that there is a minority standing longer in work. Yeah, that's right, but the fact that there's a minority doing that doesn't mean that the minority has to have worse rights, because that's what's really happening here. Whether or not this applies to 5 pst., 10 pst. or 50 pst. In this context, for older workers who wish to stay longer in work — as long as they are subjected to an injustice — to discrimination based on their age — they must be corrected regardless of whether they are very many or not. So back to the last time I tried to challenge the Council of State, to push everything about pensions, to the pension commission – except for the areas where the Council of State is forced into place, if not it is unparliamentary to say, such as that. on the question of pensions from the first heads, etc. Fortunately, we now got a decision in place and got it sorted out. Otherwise, however, it seems necessary to wait for the pension commission. As I started instead, it is now ten years since the pension settlement was adopted by the red-green government with the support of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party – ten years ago. And they still say, "No, we have to wait even longer to change the unfairness of the pension reform." You have to push it. Many of the country's older workers, many of the country's pensioners, do not have time to wait. They have already been waiting for ten years, and then it is time for me that the Storting is now actually taking action and making sure to stop the age discrimination that more elderly people are exposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2133	I understand very well that those who were in the Corona crisis, for example. jobs such as taxi drivers, or, as there have been examples, some of Norway’s most beloved dance band artists, or different things, who are in work and now feel that they do not get social security schemes or other things because they have reached retirement age, are surprised and some become angry about it. But then it's worth noting that this proposal – we're not now six months ago; we're not now in March last year – is coming now. It's good to note since the representative Wiborg was so clear and clear that this proposal is coming now, in the summer of 2021, and would therefore not help them. It is also a proposal to do something about this in the future in time. There are a lot of things we get to spare for our political memoirs, but – and this gets Wiborg and I take in a different context, maybe – the description ‘forced in place’ when it comes to retirement from the first crown, does not quite fit in with how I remember the drive-up to those events, but we have to wait in excitement to read about it for later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2140	Since we have no lines on each other, I am also asked my question to Erlend Wiborg in the form of an article. Erlend Wiborg made a big point that now it is ten years since the pension reform was introduced, and why should you push and push and push it. I would like to put that question back to Erlend Wiborg, because when the Progress Party took over the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as a member of Erna Solberg's government, and thus had the Council of State in this field, the pension reform had been in force for two and a half years. So why did the Progress Party in government push and push and push and push on the kind of creation that Wiborg now wants? I would like to have a good explanation for that. It is not useful to present oneself as one party in Stortinget and one party in government. The Progress Party is the Progress Party. I see what the representative Wiborg is doing now, a little bit like trying to seduce people into thinking that when the Progress Party comes to power, they stand for something quite different from what they are actually doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2147	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2152	I can answer Lise Christoffersen relatively briefly and simply: Yes, when the Progress Party was in government, we had many suggestions to strengthen the ranks of pensioners and change several of the injustices we thought were there. We proposed to abolish the underregulation of the country's pensioners, but that proposal was defeated by Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party. We made proposals together with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to reduce the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. Fortunately, we had that adopted, but the Labour Party voted against. We had other improvements for the country's pensioners – against the votes of the Workers' Party. Lise Christoffersen has put forward proposals that the pensioners will get very bad out of, for example. when the Workers' Party's tax arrangements add up to an increase in the tax of 300000 pensioners, and then the representative Lise Christoffersen comes here and shows that the Progress Party has been voted down in the Stortinget. Then the Workers' Party will have to take responsibility for its own voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2159	The representative Lise Christoffersen had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2164	I just want to remind the representative of Wiborg that, in a round of parliamentary leaders in Stortinget, the Council of State of Wiborg's own party, the Progress Party, promised to look at the situation that arose the first time the pensioners went into the negative while the others went into the positive, and even promised that he would come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for new regulatory principles, which would include the negative settlements that had been in the past. It never came. There was never a suggestion, but it was the Progress Party itself, Siv Jensen in the Ministry of Finance, that stopped putting social security contributions before the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget could intervene in that situation. That is what the Progress Party did in government – or did not, to put it correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2169	The proposal of the Progress Party is to ask the government to present the necessary legislative proposals to ensure the right to daily allowances and sick pay for old-age coal in work and subject to the pension reform up to the age of 72. As I mentioned in my reply to the Council of State, I asked Robert Eriksson about a small part of this. It was the third paragraph of Section 8-51 of the Social Security Act, which currently applies to those who are between 67 and 70 years old, where there is a limitation on the provision of sickness benefits from social security for up to 60 sick pay days to a member between 67 and 70 years old – a small part of the whole we are talking about here. The Council of State answered that question in writing on 24 April 2015 – and the Party of Advances put in government until 13 January 2020 – and it says: ‘The government will also take a closer look at welfare benefits for people over 62 years of age, including sickness benefits and pensions.’ Nothing happened. I think it is a little serious of the Progress Party to express itself like one does in the Parliament's pulpit, when one knows the responsibilities of this matter and knows how the Progress Party has behaved in a small tab of it all, where a sail has not cleaned it up in its reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2181	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2198	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who may sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2206	First, I would like to address the proposal of the Centre Party in the matter. The case concerns the proposal of the Progress Party to terminate the partnership state-municipality in Nav and to place all benefits and services under a government guideline. The majority of the Committee, all except the Advance Party, understands the proposal so that all benefits and actions through Nav, including social assistance, are financed by the State. As the case rapporteur, I have chosen to go relatively thoroughly through the objectives, organisation and division of responsibilities with the entire Nav reform and the division of responsibilities between the state and the municipality. The proposal deserves it and requires it. From Nav was established on 1 July 2006 for the purpose of giving users one door to enter, in order to provide users with better, user-friendly, coordinated services, there has been almost a continuous transition and internal reorganisation in Nav. From the introduction of the administrative units from 1 January 2008, in particular: responsibilities have become very inconclusive and fragmented for those in need of Nav. This is particularly the case in what should be the main field of action for overall improvements, namely the field of work. The members of the Committee from the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the SV say in the vote that it is very demanding to form a clear picture of how Nav should work and how it works today. In our opinion, it is not possible to discuss the Nav partnership without trying to get an overview of the preparatory and intentional nature of the Nav reform, as well as how the National Audit Office and the Swedish Supervisory and Constitutional Committee have assessed how the reform has developed. The aim of the Nav reform was: more in work and activity, fewer in social benefits easier for users and adapted to users’ needs a holistic and efficient labour and welfare management The following four key requirements were laid down for the new labour and welfare management: Responsibility for the instruments related to work and reduced working capacity must be brought together to the greatest extent possible. New interfaces providing coordination needs and opening up new wasteball situations must not be created. Users who need it need to be quickly informed of their needs and have a coordinated service provision. Users must be provided with a local contact point for all labour and welfare management services. The Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV believe that the description of the Nav reform's objectives and key requirements for organisation works well as the description of key problems in Nav. Authority has been pushed away from the Nav offices and thus away from the meeting between professional consultants at the Nav office and the person who needs Nav. In particular, this is a labour-oriented measure. This has reduced the importance of the partnership and its equivalence, and in practice it has contributed to the disincentive of the individual staff and the individual Nav Office. The central party believes that Nav Stat has centralised and ‘trimmed’ its own organisation outside the partnership with the municipality. The municipal partnership has then only taken the consequences and thus contributed to the fact that the municipality has also been abdied. The municipalities have therefore far from being good enough, but it is not right to take responsibility from the municipalities and then owe it to the municipalities, as we have experienced. The centre party acknowledges that Nav is assigned an enormous task, and that there are many thousands of employees doing a formidable job, not least under the pandemic, which has led to an extreme work pressure in the organisation – a formidable job based on the organisation, culture and management that is in force in today's Nav. However, the results for users of temporary benefits and job-oriented measures are too poor, and this, in our opinion, has two reasons. The Joint State and Municipal Nav Office has not been managed by the Department and Municipality in accordance with the four requirements I have referred to. In addition, the labour market has changed radically since 2006, with the eastward enlargement of the EU combined with the EU agreement's uncontrolled labour migration system. This has greatly reduced the demand for workers living in Norway, who need normal, real wages to pay the bills in the high-cost country of Norway, and who, in many cases, have only partial working capacity or weak links with the labour market. The Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV agree that, in order to achieve the objectives of Nav, it is essential to have an overview of local employment and business and the situation of individual citizens. Municipalities have an overall responsibility for creating security and well-being for their citizens through a range of initiatives, actions and welfare systems. I would like to underline this – a number of initiatives, actions and welfare schemes. It's the whole foundation of the welfare community that's grown up from the local. Therefore, the use of Nav's services cannot be done independently of the other activities of the municipalities, and the Central Party rejects the proposal for a representative on this basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2263	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2268	Thanks to the case rapporteur for a thorough work on the matter, almost more thoroughly than the case had deserved. Because it is approaching the choice and the end of this process, and as usual, it means that the time has come for reuse of old proposals. Proposals for the governmentization of social assistance are a repetition of the Progress Party. They've always been alone in believing that it's a good idea, so also this time. With reference to the previous case, no proposals were made to end the partnership between the state and the municipality of Nav or to publicise social assistance when the Progress Party itself had the Labour and Social Ministerial post. The rapporteur explained correctly why state-making is a bad idea. I am therefore not going to spend time repeating what has already been said. The Committee has had consultation on the matter, and I think it is quite important to listen to the KS opinions, which are part of the partnership. They refer to the fact that social services are far more than economic social assistance. They say, ‘It includes prevention activities in the municipality to improve the living conditions of disadvantaged persons, provide advice and guidance, provide financial advice, provide housing for disadvantaged persons, provide qualification programmes, and a range of activities for beneficiaries of social assistance.’ KS also recalls that social services are not standardised, but individual and discretionary, and that users of municipal services are often also users of other municipal services, such as rural services, mental services, refugee services, child protection and adult education, to mention something. Many of us sitting on the Stortinget have a past as municipal politicians. It seems quite unthinkable that the local government around us should be completely irresponsible of what is the last safety net in our welfare system, namely social assistance and other social services on which the population depends. In reality, the Progress Party is promoting here proposals for a robust centralisation reform that could have a major impact on our citizens. It does not want the Workers' Party to contribute. I must admit that I was very surprised when the representative Wiborg proposed no. 95 before today said that the Progress Party will not run with standardised solutions. But it can quickly be the result of a governmentization of social assistance, so here there is a bad connection between the different proposals of the Progress Party on different issues. I would also like to remind you that local knowledge and prioritisation often provide a better result for the individual user. The working party wants to strengthen that side of Nav, by giving increased decision-making powers to the local Nav offices also in the case of State benefits. Our national meeting has just adopted the programme for the forthcoming ageing period, where our desire for a trust reform is central – trust in the expertise and local knowledge of the employees in the first line. Finally, only one explanation of vote by the Labour Party. We support the position on the matter that the proposal for a government decision is not adopted. When we have chosen not to go into any of the minority proposals in the matter, it is because we have our own proposal from the Workers' Party for consideration in the Committee, a proposal for a strengthened hub. We're going to promote our proposals there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2292	Nav is the very core wall of our welfare society and the pandemic has shown us how important Nav is. Our welfare society is built around the principle that we work and contribute when we can, and that we get help from society when we lie down. Nav's employees are the important front line staff in our welfare state, who have a comprehensive task and have been involved in major conversion processes. The Nav reform was a significant organisational reform that would be implemented relatively quickly, while a number of other reforms. The Joint State-Communal Nav Office was selected after a thorough political process. The last office was established in 2011 and, in administrative terms, the Nav reform has had relatively short working hours. The aim of the joint State-municipal offices is to provide users with better and more comprehensive follow-up and assistance. In this choice, account has been taken of users who are far from the labour market and who have the greatest needs. The Nav reform has probably been more demanding in periods than many initially saw. Today, however, the situation is much brighter than the picture given in the National Audit Office’s 2012 report, to which the proposers also refer in their explanatory statement. On the basis of the National Audit Office report, in 2014, the government set up an expert committee to review the management of labour and welfare with a view to assessing and promoting proposals for improvements. The report of the expert committee was available in 2015, and the government followed up with its own forecast in 2016 with clear policy choices and measures to simplify, improve and renew administration. At the time, strategies and measures were given wide support in the Stortingen, and in the communication, the government was clear that the partnership between the municipality and the state provided opportunities that were not sufficiently exploited by the individual Nav office. These were also clear feedback from the researchers who had followed the establishment of Nav throughout the reform period. Since the notification was submitted, the policy choices and measures have been followed up both by the government and by the administration itself. The implementation of measures at local level has also been recently assessed by the Institute of Labour at Oslo Met, which concludes that work is in line with these policy options and that action should continue. The question of changing the division of responsibilities between the municipality and the state is also thoroughly addressed in the Rattsø Committee, which concluded that it would continue a municipal responsibility for economic social assistance, in order to facilitate a comprehensive and coordinated assistance effort for beneficiaries with complex needs, and also, as has been said earlier, to ensure that assistance was provided on the basis of knowledge of local conditions. The right shares the assessment of the Rattsø Committee and is not for the government of the Nav offices. Many users will need other municipal services such as habilitation, rehabilitation, health, housing and more. Governmentisation of Nav services could reduce cooperation with other municipal services, which are often essential for this vulnerable group. It is also an important principle that municipalities should have a financial safety network for their citizens and that social assistance should be covered by the free resources of municipalities, and that municipalities should also have an economic incentive to strengthen prevention. One of the most important areas of future labour and welfare policies is the prevention and prevention of the permanent exclusion of vulnerable groups from education or working life. A comprehensive policy to prevent exclusion and to contribute to greater inclusion must therefore cover a wide range of policy areas. In this work, cooperation across services and sectors needs to improve, not least between work, health and education. Local cooperation between municipal services and labour and welfare management is a key to achieving the goal of including more and providing better services, as we also discussed in the case earlier here today. In the Nav Annual Report for 2019, even though the follow-up to the Storing Communication states that they are now seeing the results of the work to get more people to work and to strengthen the experience of users in Nav. Nav's employees spent more time on job-oriented follow-up and have strengthened their cooperation with employers. Digital solutions are also becoming available in more and more areas. Now this good development work, which, after all, has produced good results, must continue and be strengthened to meet new challenges. There is no time for further reorganisation, and we therefore do not support the proposals that have been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2313	I will start by addressing the proposals behind the Progress Party. The fact that as many people as possible can support themselves and their families is an independent goal. Public responsibility is to help people achieve that goal, because we can all be exposed to sickness, injury, unemployment or anything else that makes you unable to cope. The spearhead of society to help people in these situations, is Nav. This is independent of whether you live in Halden, Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg, Moss, Bodø or Trondheim. So it's going to apply no matter where you live in the country. The idea behind the establishment of Nav was and is good. The fact that people don't have to be a caste ball in the system, that people aren't going to be sent between different public agencies and offices, and that people don't have to expand their life stories and tell the same thing to a new case handler, was some of the background for establishing Nav, and that's a good idea. We also know that the vast majority of those in contact with Nav are very satisfied. But even though the vast majority are satisfied, we also get daily stories that show that Nav doesn't work well enough. Very many Nav users and clients experience a bureaucratic hub. They experience completely meaningless documentation requirements. We've had examples of people who have to prove that an amputated leg is still amputated. We have had and have a hub that does not take into account to a large extent that people are different. We are all individuals with dreams, opportunities, abilities and challenges. Then it's a challenge that Nav is too designed to fit people into a form, into a fixed model. We liberals don't believe that people are that same. And that's one of the challenges Nav has -- that Nav doesn't have that vision. I'm not going to stand here and say that the Progress Party has a keenness to solve all the challenges Nav has, but the duty we all have is to constantly adjust and improve Nav where we can. The fact that Nav today is divided into two parts with one state and one municipal part is obviously part of the challenge. The fact that you have different budgets to deal with, for example. that the municipal part of Nav may be interested in a client being transferred to state benefits and thus transferred to the state budget, although it may not be for the benefit of the individual user, but it is for the benefit of the local economy, an example is that it does not take into account those for whom the system is for, namely the individual individuals. As we've rigged the system, it's more adapted to the bureaucracy and the local economy. Obviously, standing by guidelines in Nav is a challenge. The Wakeng selection pointed to that. The fact that there are two tariff areas obviously creates challenges. And all those things contribute to creating increased bureaucracy. So the proposals of the Advance Party would help improve Nav, make it a little less bureaucratic, a little more user-friendly, and increase the chance that Nav could more easily see the individual user, what needs he has, and what to do to help that particular person move on and hopefully stand on his own. I understand that the bulk of the population is not necessarily prepared to adopt something so large above the table. It is therefore for this reason that the Progress Party has also subsidized the proposal to have at least an investigation thereof. But no, the majority of people think we need no more knowledge, no more investigation. Rather, you want to continue the system you have. I find it incomprehensible that the majority vote against the proposals of the Progress Party. Yes, even the proposal to strengthen the first line in Nav, which the representative Lise Christoffersen and the Workers' Party have said they are in favour, they today choose to vote against. The fact that the government, along with the Workers' Party, obviously believes that Nav works so well that you don't need adjustments, is incomprehensible to me and shows that more people have good things to do in getting out and talking to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2334	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2339	Nav is crucial for us to have a well-functioning welfare state. SV believes that Nav should secure all the inhabitants help to obtain work or secure income if one cannot work. Often, someone will make us do big reorganizations without a solid analysis in advance. To set the size up a large Nav reorganization process without a thorough explanation of what needs to be done to improve the service is unwise. There is, however, much that we know can be improved and we need to improve to ensure that Nav adders have good intentions to meet all the inhabitants in a way that we are satisfied with. It is not unproblematic that Nav is divided between state and municipality. It provides some places for a huge variation in the supply being given. It is also a challenge not to be treated in the same way, that there are pay differences between government and local authorities in spite of the fact that they do the same work. It would be a good thing if it would be possible to get a joint agreement for all those who are added to Nav, regardless of whether they work in the state or in the municipal section. From this point of view SV suggests: ‘The Government requests the use of figures and statements provided by Nav in line with the Chapter of the Equality and Discrimination Act. 4 on the obligation of activity and presentation, to propose the necessary measures to ensure better non-discrimination between the employees of the State and the Municipality of Nav.’.» Unfortunately, this proposal does not seem to have multiples in this room. SV shall have national meetings for the weekend, and the draft programme for the forthcoming period states that there is a need for a comprehensive trust reform across the public sector. Of course, it also applies to Nav. But it's important that one sees this in context, and that it's done based on thorough calculations. There is a balance between the rights of the inhabitants and the professional knowledge and the assessments of the individual added. I am a fan of the fact that the case handler and the person dealing with the public should have room and freedom to practise the profession and knowledge in contact with the individual. We need a welfare state and a hub that sees people. We also need to think that Nav's municipal anchoring provides knowledge and insight into local conditions, which is important for clarifying or helping individuals in work, for example. It's too easy to say that a billing of Nav roughly with a spell will correct the challenges Nav has. Of course, it won't. Many of those who use Nav also need other services in parallel, services that are largely provided by the municipality. It is good for these users that there is local and municipal representation in Nav. Nav must also know its local labour market and cooperate well with the business community in its region. It is important that Nav is a strong player in the municipality and in the community. The representative Lise Christoffersen said that more people here have a past as local politicians. I actually have a use as a local politician and can confirm that there is an important partnership and important cooperation between the state and the municipality. The municipality has the best means of resolving the tasks associated with social services. It's because social services are more than social assistance, and because services are supposed to be individual and gender-based, not standardised. It is important for Nav to have sufficient confidence in meeting the individual’s needs. People are not created to fit into predefined forms and templates. Our lives are different, and our precepts are different. SV will therefore not join the proposal of the Progress Party and will cooperate with the rest of the Committee to reject the proposal. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to address the proposal that SV stands by itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2359	The representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2365	Three Progress Party representatives have put forward proposals for a holistic hub in this matter. Yes, that intention can also be shared by the Christian People's Party, but not by the premise that the proposers have believed in. Statutory Nav 100 pst. and cut out the municipalities that partner is following the Christian People's Party a bad idea. The Christian People's Party believes in the proximity of services, knowledge of people, history, local environment and business, and that citizens can choose the representatives they want to represent themselves in the local government. Local democracy is a powerful force in society, and we don't have to push it away by taking away functions that work, that mean security for people. Nav as we know it's a young organization, only 15 years old. The bet was large and complex and was to take care of the inhabitants from cradle to grave. One door in was the motto, and many have with glimpses in their eyes said one door out. It turned out to be difficult at first, but after that it has been much better, precisely because the municipalities have been active and play along with the development. To be closed with efficiency, it is crucial that a person has the right decision-making power at the right level. Often we say at the lowest possible level, but it must be a correct and competent level. The driver to be closed in such a large organisation as Nav is, has our competent employees and technological developments, especially on the IT page. Nav has tried it on this last year, with the covid-19 pandemic. The many regulations and payments were not adapted to the system at the beginning, but there has been a formidable effort by skilled professionals in Nav and the complementary environment of competence. After a while, there is a girl, and the payments have come mainly when they were going to. It has been a few years since the Riksrevision made its report in 2012. Then came the 2015 Vågeng selection and the big message in 2016, and we think of the words: Improve, simplify and renew the management. I mention these milestones to show that it's been working seriously with improvements all along, and in a living organization that's going to feed the whole people, it's going to be that way too. The government has allowed a lot of money for efficiency and IT development in Nav, and it has supported the Christian People's Party. The aim is, of course, to free up capacity for guidance services and follow-up. We're in a time when outreach characterizes our society. Work is the medicine that helps it, and it will be a very big task for Nav to get young people who can work full-time or part-time into meaningful work. Here it is absolutely crucial that Nav state and Nav municipalities cooperate if we are to be closed down with this in society. The Christian People's Party supports the whole heart of the plural proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2386	Proposalers want to terminate the Nav partnership and place all services and services under one State guideline. It will include, among others: a. involve the government of economic social assistance and the qualification programme. I can see the appeal of this, because there is something fine with such a neat and clear guideline – at least apparently you get it. The problem is, I don't think that will help. I think the coordination problem and the challenges of coordinating and all these things will just move on. One simple reason is that precisely these complex people who are users of Nav often also need other municipal services, and that municipalities have ownership into Nav then, and even have the opportunity to influence, among other things. a social assistance benefit, I believe is an important argument. Moreover, I am skeptical enough that a reversal, i.e. a more organisational system reform of Nav, is what the department needs most now. In addition, it also has some advantages that you have e.g.: social assistance as a discretionary and need-tested community benefit. It makes it easier to have an individual and concrete assessment of needs. It's also an important addition as a latest safety net in our welfare system. Moreover, it is worth noting that because social assistance is covered by the free resources of municipalities, municipalities also have an economic incentive to strengthen prevention. I'm afraid that if all the services in the Nav office had been made public, it could reduce cooperation with other municipal services that are often essential to those who are users of Nav. The proposers are concerned with countering unjustified differences in social benefits between municipalities. Guidance on the measurement of performance has therefore been provided. Nevertheless, in my view, it is an important principle that social assistance is discretionary and closely linked to the other services of municipalities. It may also be an independent point that different political majority have different opinions, also based on local considerations, of social assistance. That's why it's not legal or normist, because there's a difference between Oslo and Porsgrund – or Porsgrund and Mo in Rana, for that matter. There is no doubt that sometimes the partnership between state and local authorities in the local Nav office can be challenging for governance, management and working methods. At the same time, it also provides opportunities for a comprehensive and individualised approach to the individual user. In my opinion, there is no reason, at least unwisely, to change the partnership that forms the foundation of the Nav Office. It has not been said that everything is as it should be, or that there is no need for improvement. It's quite obvious, and I'm concerned that we're going to continue the development as well. Finally, of course, it's always, perhaps especially when you've been in government, tempting for the opposition to point out everything the Progress Party didn't do in government. But it is worth remembering that the Progress Party did not just put in government. They sat, among others. together with the Right, and the Right has never been to state all the public benefits. And if you – knock on the table, I hope not – should get a new government for the autumn, the government parties in any new government will notice that everything is not going through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2405	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2410	I thought I'd start with a quote: ‘We have asked questions several times in this room about how Nav is managed. Nav, in our opinion, is over-administrative and bureaucratic and governed by what you might call the worst of two worlds, neoliberalism and social democracy. This will result in a combination of target management and detail management that has earned many public agencies rather poorly.’ I think I see that the Council of State acknowledges the quote. This was the last time the Progress Party put forward a proposal for the governmentization of social assistance from the big-time representative, Røe Isaksen. The national assembly of the Labour Party has now adopted a trust reform in which we want local Nav offices to have more decision-making power than they do today on state benefits. Do the Councils of State think such trust reform is a better idea than target management and detail management?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2422	I want to quote the former state council Trond Giske, who on several occasions has said that he is for goals and for governance, and therefore he is also for target management. Now there is probably a difference between the social democratic target management and the target management I am for, but the option of having overall target management in the public sector is detailed governance. It is precisely that everything should be done legally, or that everything should be managed through detailed leadership, rather than overall target management. But I'm nodding to my own quote, because that's a very good point. Let me just take an example of a bad outcome of it, and that is that for many years magnification and government detailed action portfolio in Nav. That's a good example in a bad way to rule, in my opinion. When we got into government, we left it to Nav instead. Then I'm also a fan of seeing if local Nav office can get more space for action and more opportunities. At the same time, I have to say that this trust reform for the Workers' Party – at least for me – does not have so much content at the moment, other than slogans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2433	We have several opportunities to discuss trust reform in this Chamber quite soon. The council said in the first case we had here today, about young people, that hub and health and hub and education must work together around the user, and that more must be left to the profession of Nav. Then I wonder: Where is this profession in Nav, according to the opinion of the Council of State? Is it in the first line, around the user, or is it primarily in the administrative unit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2440	It's both places, but they have two different roles. Since the representative of Christoffersen is very good at reading major reports, she has probably also read all the times I have disagreed with, for example. The representative Lundtigen, who has it as one of his captors that these administrative units shouldn't have, and that all of this, at least a lot of it, should be back in the first line. I disagree. I believe that having larger administrative units gives greater predictability, more equal treatment and greater professionalism. Not least it gives justice because the Nav offices in many places are close to people, often in small municipalities, and then there should be non-discrimination regardless of whether you know or don't know anyone in the Nav office, to say it that way. This does not mean that the first-line service does not have an extremely important role and task to play as a facilitator or that it is not worth considering at least whether local Nav offices should be given any greater opportunity, for example. to support innovative local measures to get young people back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2447	The previous exchange of lines was a little special when the Workers' Party is talking about trust reform and strengthening the first line, while at the same time they are going to vote down the Progress Party's proposal to strengthen the first line today. We have dealt with several issues earlier today, and then the Council of State has been careful that we need more knowledge, it is important not to be afraid to get samples to look at it, etc. But in this matter, the Council of State has concluded in its view and at the same time refuses to participate in and acquire more knowledge. I have to say, I think it's special. My question is: in my article I presented several challenges on how Nav is organized today, how it turns out for the individual user. I also launch a possible solution. The Council of State is voting it down, but what is the Council of State's solution to strengthen Nav?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2456	I have to admit that I myself thought about using this example with a sample against the representative Wiborg, because just where the representative Wiborg in the previous round thought that having a sample, it was a postponement, he would have a sample in this round. But the point is that there's no phase response, that you're either always for or always against a sample. The difference is that in the case of the pension reform, it is not that the sample should look at a completely new pension reform, look at exactly the same things again. You have to look at a continuation and how it should be further developed. The Nav reform, as was said here, is not a very old reform to be so big and comprehensive. It has been evaluated. Among other things, former State Council Robert Eriksson presented a big news report on Nav, based on the Vågeng Committee, where this was also assessed. Then it seems to me a little unnecessary to have a new round to look at the same question once. We will continue to strengthen the professionalism of Nav, build the skills of the Nav employees, and come, among other things. in a big message to suggest how we can get more innovation into the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2463	It is quite difficult to get an overview of how Nav works, but the objective of the Nav reform was clearly clarified; there should be more work, fewer social benefits, simpler for users, adapted to the needs of users and a comprehensive and efficient labour and welfare management. It hasn't been like that. Ms Leif Arne Heløe was Minister of Social Affairs from 1981 to 1986. He's inspired me and the Center Party. He recognised that creating security and well-being through the welfare community was based on a variety of initiatives, actions and welfare systems. He was concerned about the responsibility and authority of those who did the job. Then my question is, is it not necessary and natural to give the local Nav offices responsibility and authority in terms of temporary benefits, according to the intent of the superior?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2472	I can see that it's a bit touching, but let's take a concrete example: the daily allowance. Today it is largely a manual treatment. It's grouped together in specific environments, units, doing this instead of being at each and every Nav office. First of all, our main goal should be to make sure that it is digitized. And the second is that it makes sense to have that kind of more -- what to say -- mass routine treatment, or at least dealing with a lot of things, in your own units, that you specialize in it just because the local Nav offices have a lot of other things that are more important. They have to be close to the users. They have to follow up. They shall have individual conversations. They'll catch up with young people before it's been eight weeks. They must ensure that measures are put in place that are correct. They shall contribute to the assessment of the type of work that can be done. All these things build partnerships with local businesses. It's much more important than the problems that Lundtigen wants to push back to the first line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2480	Some of the things that create a little difference between Nav's additions are, among other things, pay ratios, where government and municipal Nav contributions are paid differently, even though they do very much like work. There's one of the things that SV with our proposal is trying to fix. But what also appeared in the hearing about this proposal, I think – I'm starting to get a little nervous, because there are many Nav proposals for the time being – was that KS stressed that it has been working on a common tariff agreement for Nav, to ensure equal treatment between state and municipal Nav adders. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State how he stands for a common tariff agreement in Nav, which will give equal treatment between the addendum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2485	As with all such questions, there is a question for the social partners. So you can ask, but isn't Nav Stat a party to the world of work? No, it's among other things. the kind of questions that we confidently leave to those who are responsible for employers in the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2490	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2497	I'd like to say something a little personal. Although it may not be so open to everyone, I am a very concerned person. I can lie awake about the networks and think about difficult thoughts. I can worry if someone I like, or I, will get sick, and what will happen then, who will help us if my partner or I can't work anymore. That's what I think there's more of them. I have grown up in a Norway where the feeling that we are not alone has been strong. When I was young, I thought that in this country no one was left to himself. If a lose job is done, you will still have a roof over your head and food on the table. If you get sick, you get a health care and a security of income. All of this is good for us as citizens to know, especially for those of us who are concerned and easily become troubled, who go through this life with a thought that something terrible can happen soon – because we know that it can. Life is untimely and quite often very unfair. We believe that the welfare state is there for us anyway, but that's not how it feels anymore. It'll be harder and harder to get help. It's tightening strongly into social statements. Over the last eight years, I've known an increasing turmoil. I've been more concerned than I was before, and it's about politics, about the ideology that prevails here in the country, a thought that each of them is its own success smith who has run politics in Norway. It'll be harder to get help. A form should be filled in, and a proper form must be required. At the same time, while life is raging around one, a person has to navigate through complicated legislation. We require a lot of those who have very little. I don't mean to say that each one of us can do it on their own. I think we should strengthen the community, expand the security network, and once again make sure that the welfare state is there for them when they need it, that Nav can help either a necessary job or income, that the municipalities can't take child welfare from families on social welfare, that we have proper social assistance rates, that we don't cut down on the child supplement to disabled people, not cut into glasses, not cut into red tape. We require a lot of those who have very little. I'm probably never going to be completely free of worries, but the welfare state is worried people's best friend. He can assure us that we are not alone, that the community will help us if we fall, that one should be taken care of. This is at stake when the welfare state is being built up, when social security schemes are being streamlined, when more and more stringent requirements are being imposed. We require a lot of those who have very little. Many say that setting demands is to care. Maybe that, but setting up is really bothering, and the welfare state is going to set up for people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2510	I can assure the Council of State that the Central Party has never proposed or intended that one should put down all the administrative units in Nav. Day payments, to which the Council of State referred, are perfectly appropriate for digitisation, which is appropriate for automatic processing, and pensions in a similar way. It is perfectly obvious that the Center Party supports such relationships. What we're talking about is what's really demanding, that's the situation of people with complex needs. For people with complex needs, that's the point of Nav. That's what one was going to right up, that's where one was going to get better, that's where one set the goals. It was there that one set out the four key requirements that the responsibility for the instruments had to be brought together as far as possible, that no new interfaces had to be created that would create new coordination needs and open up new waste-ball situations. One would quickly get a clarification, one would get a coordinated service offer, and the users would have to get an accessible point of contact locally. All the words I now used are from documents that underlie Nav. There has been a lot of work to figure out what was the intention and the thinking behind it. This was the thinking in terms of what was the compound, what was the demanding. The demanding requires that you have a meeting between people – that you have a meeting between people, and that the people who meet can understand each other and have the time needed to develop what is necessary to do something about it. For this reason, the Centre Party, together with the SV in this case, proposes to develop a plan showing what is needed for organisational changes and strengthening the professional competences of the etatian professionals so that the first line at the Nav offices in municipalities and urban areas can take decisions on temporary benefits and labour-oriented measures in line with the original objectives of the Nav reform. That's what we're talking about. This is to meet the need for authorised Nav offices in all municipalities. I'm surprised that the Council of States is not more open to assess this and go in this direction. There are several proposals from the Central Party related to this here. The first is of course that the offices must be open, that those who need it the most can meet those who will assist. Second, professionals are needed to a much greater extent there, and it is obvious that more people need to be taken from the administrative units and from the local offices, because there is a need for experienced people to understand the whole. Then it's obvious that those who are there need to be given responsibility and greater authority, so that one can solve what is complex, temporary needs in a much better way than the throwball situation that one has come up with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2542	Electrification is our most important climate solution and our greatest opportunity to secure future profitable jobs and increased value creation. Access to renewable energy is one of our main competitive advantages. The ambitions for electrification and conversion are great, and we need to avoid network connectivity becoming a barrier. In addition to replacing fossil fuels with electricity, Norway needs to be able to rapidly phase in a new zero-emission technology. In order to succeed, there is a need for major structural changes in how to build up the network and finance web service companies. Future energy systems must also take into account greater complexity as a result of increased energy mix, more use of smart solutions to reduce power use and the need for more efficient concession processes for faster grid deployment. A more dynamic energy system is urgently needed to avoid bottlenecks in the mains power source. In the mountainous region, an increase in consumption is expected over the next decades, corresponding to the total consumption in Oslo. Light grids in Rogaland have seen a marked increase in the electrification rate over the last two years. They expect a doubling of consumption over the next 5-10 years. Both require sufficient capacity in the State network transmission network. A survey of future power needs in Agder shows more than a doubling in the near future. Flexibility has been raised as a solution to future network challenges, but it does not address the challenges of high power needs, among other things. new power-intensive industry. An expression for the changes is, among other things, that NVE has to treat approx. 300 applications from actors wishing to connect to the power grid. That's an increase of 50 pst. There are both new companies and existing network companies that need to upgrade the network in order to meet increased consumption. It is important that the costs of developing and operating the mains power supply are kept under control. The textual regulation of network operators is therefore designed to ensure the efficient operation, development and use of the mains network. But today's model is not designed for the paradigm shift we're now facing, where we're both going to electrify fossil energy use and facilitate future-oriented industry. Network rentals in regions with much increased consumption as a result of electrification can be very high. Today's regulation punishes network companies that build new plants for new industries, rather than introducing them. Networking companies, and especially along the coast, must link to new consumption at the end of their network in order to electrify ferries, ships, marine facilities and other activities that previously did not require much power, as well as new industries. Such income regulation today is designed, these investments will reduce the measured effect, and thus the return. The network companies do not have incentives to facilitate a desired electrification, but on the contrary provide incentives to delay and avoid investments. It is therefore important that transmission system operators be given incentives to make the necessary investments in time. Time spent and costs of establishment are crucial factors for the profitability of charging infrastructure. The market must function where it is based, but for people and businesses to choose emission-free solutions, sufficient charging infrastructure must be developed also in areas and sectors where profitability cannot be achieved. We record that challenges and needs are different in different parts of the transport sector. Passenger cars need many charging points, while power demand is the main challenge for maritime transport. The increased need for coordination and cooperation between new actors increases complexity. It is therefore necessary to develop a well-targeted framework that takes account of the different challenges. Until now, transport in the network has gone one way – from production to customer. Customers have now also become producers through, for example, solar cells and new sources of energy, such as biogas, waste heat, district heating, etc. This means that the complexity of the energy system needs to be addressed in new ways. The energy system and framework conditions therefore need to be better organised to ensure that power can be transported from new renewable sources to different actors in a transition society. Today, government charges amount to about 36 pst. of total electricity use costs. For household customers, the electricity charge levied by the network companies has been increased by approx. 40 pst. in the last seven years. In addition, we are now facing a large increase in costs as a result of upgrades to the mains power supply. There is broad support among the population for the electrification of society, but there is a limit to the financial burden on the individual consumer or activity before it is considered unreasonable. So we're totally dependent on social acceptance to succeed in the transition. Long planning and processing times are also a challenge. The network should be expanded where there is a real need. When it takes approx. 10 years of grid expansion, the time horizon is usually too long for industry. We must avoid companies choosing to establish themselves in other countries as a result of a lack of transmission capacity or excessive network connection costs. Electrification is also one of the largest business opportunities for Norway. The NHO project ‘Green Electrical Value Chains’ points to electrification as one of the largest business opportunities for Norway. They highlight the maritime sector, battery production, hydrogen, development and operation of power projects abroad, optimisation of power systems and the supply chain for sea wind. All of this requires a radical transformation of our energy system. Today, the first person to the mill determines the order of network access. It works for a time with good access to power and getting applicants. Today, when renewable energy has become a scarce resource, this is not sustainable. It is also a democratic challenge that today's priorities take place in closed forums. It should be in the interests of society with open processes where different considerations can also be emphasised, such as: employment, value creation, regional development, climate, etc. The first-timer of the mill also means that any increased network costs will be distributed in a distorted manner if the first ones do not pay plant contributions. Climate challenges and the rapid phase-in of low-carbon technologies impose far higher requirements on network planning and development than we have seen in the past. The network companies note this in the form of a large increase in the number of connected customers and an increase in the size of the power output. The identification of future energy needs should be given increased priority in order to provide a better basis for network planning. Statnet should have a more active role in reducing bottlenecks as soon as possible. If we are to succeed in getting ahead and giving predictability to business, we must not lose the edge we have. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a national strategy for electrification that identifies the challenges and barriers and proposes new, good, socio-economic solutions. We believe that it cannot be left to each network company, to each municipality or to market mechanisms alone. Norway has great ambitions and a demanding timetable for electrification. The maximum reduction of climate emissions at the lowest possible price and increased employment and value creation must be key policy objectives that need to be balanced. So the question is, how does the Council of State actually contribute to the fact that the transmission system companies can be more forward-looking and facilitate electrification?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2578	Let me start by thanking the representative for bringing up an important debate, a debate I myself am also very busy and spending a lot of time working with by day. It is very nice that there is optimism in the business community and many who want to electrify existing businesses or establish new ones. With 98 pst. Renewable power generation, surplus power, a well-functioning low-cost power market and a highly developed electricity network provide a very good starting point for electrification in Norway. The government is committed to facilitating new industries and workplaces. Industry needs not only enough power, but also access to the grid so that the flow reaches its destination, and the government has a clear objective that access to power should not be an obstacle to economic development. At the same time, we must remember that the deployment of the mains network has consequences for nature and the environment, as well as that it is expensive and paid by all of us through the network rental. As the representative noted, there is a limit on how much individual can pay in network rental. Neither industry nor households have benefited from an excessive increase in network rental. So we have to expand enough, but not too much grid in our country, and if we are to get more electrification, it is therefore necessary that we make the best use of the grid. Tariff rules provide for a fair distribution of network costs. When customers who trigger new network deployments have to pay their share of the cost of the deployments, the costs are also allocated fairly. At the same time, customers are given the signal to place themselves where there is free capacity in the network. And we've just made a change to the regulation on web regulation and the energy market that just facilitates the exploitation of existing networks. The change allows network operators and consumer customers to enter into a network connection agreement with conditions for disconnection or reduction in consumption. This may also contribute to a faster and fairer network connection between actors. The revenue regulation of network carriers shall provide sufficient financial framework conditions while ensuring that the size of the network lease is reasonable. Good regulation is important for making investments and operation of the network as cost-effective as possible. At the same time, future needs should be addressed, inter alia: electrification. It is important that we have a regulation that is adapted to the challenges we face. I know that the Energy Regulatory Authority, RME, is continuously following the need for any changes in the regulation. By means of the Energy Act, we provide for a socially rational deployment of the mains power grid. I believe it is important to facilitate the construction of sufficient networks, but at the same time it should not be built too much, as mentioned, for the cost to customers, as well as for nature, the environment and the community. New power lines are often comprehensive and interventional, which may be contentious and conflict-affected, and it is therefore necessary to carry out a thorough process of close involvement, both locally, regionally and centrally. Concessions for new network facilities are regularly charged, including by municipalities and county councils, for new treatment in the department. Experience has shown that power lines can be among the most conflicting issues in the administration, and we cannot easily address them. At the same time, progress in network development is important in order to put in place new infrastructure, taking into account, inter alia: security of power supply, industrial development and renewable development. The network must be developed in a way that takes account of natural diversity, landscapes, communities and other land interests. At the same time, the core task is to ensure that consumers get the flow they need, and here I share the starting point of the representative Grung. We have to look for ways to do this more effectively, while taking care of the other important considerations. We are in a period of historically high investments in the Norwegian grid. Statnett has invested in the order of 60 billion. kr since 2013. Major investments have also been made in the regional and distribution networks. Statnett expects to invest for 30 billion. kr towards 2024. Large investments are also planned at the underlying network level. In other words, it's a lot of activity, but it takes time to increase network capacity. The electrification and establishment of new industries may mean that large consumption increases are coming quickly and trigger the need for increased grid capacity. In some areas, the overall consumption plans are so large that there is not enough grid capacity for all plans to be realised simultaneously. Both network companies and energy authorities are now experiencing enormous progress from actors wishing to connect to the network. For example, since 2018, BKK Nett and Statnett have received enquiries that correspond to a doubling of current consumption in the Bergen region. 65 pst. of the applications made in 2020. This shows well how fast and powerful the potential increases in consumption are. In general, some consumption plans are mature projects, while others are at an earlier stage and have greater uncertainties associated with them. This may make it difficult to coordinate network development and consumption plans, and therefore actors planning to increase consumption or reconnect should contact the network operator early so that the need for any action on the network can be clarified as quickly as possible. At the same time, we see that some actors report increased consumption plans in several municipalities even before they have cleared up the location of the project, and this complicates the estimation and the basis for development further. Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, has compiled an overview of what needs to be in place before concession requests for the connection of power-intensive industries, for example. data centres may be processed. One example is that there must be an approved municipal regulation plan for the industrial area. These interventions will give the NVE more complete applications, so that the process is as effective as possible. It could also help to reduce the time spent by concession authorities on the most immature projects. So there is already a lot to do to facilitate electrification that can generate reduced emissions and new industrial activities, but we also need to see the increased electrification in the context of transmission system, security of supply and not least the cost to consumers. The government has announced that during this spring we will present a big message on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources. Electrification and the relationship with the Norwegian power system will be a central theme of this message, and in particular how best to facilitate a better adapted deployment of the mains power grid, with shorter lifetime and better use of existing grid capacity. These challenges are few of many resulting from the great green transition in Norway and the world now in the middle of it. Fortunately, the government also sees enormous opportunities for jobs and value creation in the same transformation, and we do what we can to facilitate the Norwegian business community to seize precisely these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2612	Thanks to the Council of State, because initially I think most people see the challenge picture, at least those who work in the field. With regard to the development of networks, there is a difference in spending 10 years, as the average is today – I understand that Sweden also spends 10 years, so it is a challenge in the Nordic region – even if we are to take all into account, with local anchoring, environmental considerations and studies. So having to be able to cut down that time while taking care of those considerations, we think we'll be important in the future. Then we know that the petroleum industry was able to create a system of ‘solid track’ on planning, where we saw that there was a clear connection with the desire for establishment. Too much network deployment is based on security of supply, and electrification may make it even more important to take the nutritional aspect into account, and not just security of supply on the other hand. The question is also whether Statnett can have an expanded role to avoid the bottlenecks that we now see in several places, and that perhaps the largest network companies can also have a greater role to play in planning and expanding. Although it is now required to implement local planning processes, new industries may not think that they should first have a long planning process with the municipality to clear up the area, and then they should start with a long process to get enough transmission capacity. The last question that I am also interested in getting an answer to is whether the process of prioritisation itself, the type of activity to be prioritised. When we dealt with the wind power message, it was about having an increased degree of regional planning, where the NVE and the County were to go in and look at where it was smart to establish new activity, linked up with where it was good network transmission, etc. I don't know how this has been followed up further. At least I haven't seen anything concrete attached to it. As it is today, when it's the first man to the mill, it's not given that it's the actor who will perhaps make the most of the development of the region, provide increased employment and value creation that we need now, when the oil is gradually phased out. So in view of having open processes when there are so many operators waiting to access a limited resource, and that those who come first might not pay construction contributions, while the others get a much more expensive investment if they have to share the plant contribution – there was also a distortion of competition, which may not be the most effective in setting up new businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2625	This is a debate with many different topics that are important to discuss. I'm glad we're going to have an opportunity to discuss this even more after the government has presented the big message I mentioned in my post, because in it just online development will be one of the big issues. These things are very close together. We're going to do a lot of things right now. One thing is that we're going to electrify society to bring down the emissions. At the same time, we are going to create new industries, a lot of new consumption that creates jobs, provides value creation and builds the country. It's super exciting, really. There are enormous opportunities for a country like Norway, which has the fantastic natural competitive advantage in terms of our renewable power resources that provide industry – and everyone else in that country – with reasonable and predictable power. It's a competitive advantage we're always going to preserve to the best of our ability. I think it's very important. The representative addresses several different questions I unfortunately cannot go too much into now, but several of these things will be discussed in the Storing Message. Just the debate on the priority of who should be given priority is also something NVE has seen. There's a discussion going on. How can priority be given to projects? Among other things, as I pointed out in my article, you have a system where those who come first are given priority. The first person to the mill is the principle that prevails. In addition, you have the obligation to connect, which means that you have an obligation to provide a network connection for those who want it. However, some of the projects are far from mature, while others may be. At least what I can assure the representative is that this is part of what I am also looking at in connection with the work we are doing now. Continuously, both the RME – i.e. the regulatory authority – and the NVE come with proposals for adjustments in order to make this as effective as possible. I think it is important to stick to a principle that it is not an objective to build the most possible network. On the contrary, the goal should be to build exactly enough networks, and then I think it's important that we have incentives that not only go in the direction of building as much as possible, but also find ways to make the best use of what we have. This is a very important consideration in connection with the transformation we're in the middle of. It can be very expensive, not least in terms of impacts on nature and communities, if we're going to build more networks than we need, so it shouldn't be a goal. But to figure out how we can exploit what we have, in the best possible way, make it more flexible, look at how we can make it easier, the suggestion I also mentioned in my post instead, to be able to connect on terms, I think is a step in the right direction for just that. This allows you to avoid, for example: have to build a new network, but at the same time connect to consumption if you are willing to disconnect if the need becomes too great. There are many different little things that fit into the big picture, but at least I can assure the representative that this is a very important debate. I'm following it closely, and I'm glad we're going to have the opportunity to discuss the big message that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2638	Interpellant has a theme that we considered a few years ago to be a non-theme. The discussions about electrification of Norway largely depended on whether we had enough power, not if the power we produced was to get hold of where the need for power arises. We now see – with the phasing in of wind power from given concessions, and power plants that will upgrade and reintroduce from government through new incentives – that the power situation will be relatively good by 2030. So this gives us a simple planning horizon for how to meet the need for more force after 2030. What seems to be more precarious, to which the interpellant has quite rightly focused, is how we shall operate in order to obtain power in the best possible and appropriate way where it is needed, whether it is hydrogen production, biogas production, battery factories and the electrification of the socket, and in the transport sector the power supply is essential. We don't want to miss jobs, tax revenues and to prevent the green shift. We are now rolling out a lot of new policies to create the new green jobs, and to that we need good infrastructure. The challenge is both the framework for investments in the network, who can do these actions, and the time it takes from projects to completion. Today it's, as it was pointed out, from 7 to 10 years. This may mean that we need a shift in investment, responsibility and processing time. It may appear that these processes are running a little late, and that we have to try to find smoother processes that also take care of our democracy. Fortunately, the government is actively working on this, both in the short term and in the long term. Measures are already in place, as the Council of State was in the process of doing. The last time in the week, the news came that it was opened for 'connection on terms'. This applies to those who can and must have a back-up system in case of power outage. They may be connected on condition that power outage may occur. It will make maximum use of existing infrastructure and be socially viable. I am very pleased that the government is looking for new and innovative solutions and seeing the challenges. For this reason, they also work with a big message, which the Norwegian Council of State Bru was about, which is to provide long-term value creation for Norwegian energy resources, where electrification and relations with the Norwegian power system will be a central theme. We now also feel that the industry, which has often been perceived as being conservative, is contributing to good ideas that will be able to solve the challenge picture. Several pilot projects are in progress, not just pointing out that the development of more networks is the answer, and that is a good thing. But other conditions also play in. Disruptive innovations, completely different ways of managing energy, new energy carriers, like hydrogen and ammonia, and AMS meters that give us a new insight, can provide completely different possibilities for managing power peaks, which is dimensional for the network we're building out. At the same time, we are becoming more energy efficient, and we can control consumption to a greater extent. New forms of energy, like ocean winds, can come in and turn the electron currents. A lot of innovation is going on, and it's important not to build up tomorrow's web with today's glasses on it. Digitalisation can open up new possibilities. This, together with a clear desire not to expand more than we have to, requires that the actions we take are thoughtful and long-term. The cost picture and the natural interference mean we have to try to keep it to a minimum, and we must not get into the pit that we are building too much. Here, too, actors have to work hard to give us realistic and good estimates of what they see is the need for a flow forward. We still need flexible processes that allow us to keep up with the electrification of Norway, and I am sure that the Minister of Oil and Energy has a full focus on these issues when she is now putting the last hand on the staging message we are all looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2661	Thank you for the Western exposure to the challenges that are linked to our energy system. It is quite right that the representative Liv Kari Eskeland was in – I don't think this was part of the debate just two years ago, or maybe three years ago. It's come to us incredibly quickly, and at the same time it's so crucial that we succeed both in the production of new energy and in facilitating the transition to electrification across society and lay the foundation for new green industry. I fully agree with both those who have spoken, that is, the Council of State and the representative, that we have to keep costs down. It is absolutely vital to ensure that we have both the people with us on the transition we are going through and the competitiveness of the industry. Developing the right network is becoming very crucial. Then it may also be important that we give priority to looking at which actors and what lies there. Instead of waiting for them to apply, we might be able to test the terrain a little bit more in advance, because it is also crucial here that we are in the forefront of development, and not in the back of the line for the organisation of transmission capacity. The complexity of our systems, we've all been involved, so I'm not going to repeat it here. But it's another moment, and there's access to labour. When we've been around the country, we've seen that both the development of networks and the planning of networks, there's a lot of imported labour there as well. It seems that we haven't had enough focus and have been eager enough to educate ourselves in the directions we need to develop the systems themselves around the networks, but also for the construction of networks and the maintenance of networks in the future. We are really looking forward to the energy message. There were many different themes, but it is absolutely necessary that we succeed in the transformation we have all said that we want to get our society going, and to facilitate the new jobs and increase value creation. With that, I would like to thank you for the debate, and then the last word is to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2674	That's the way it is. At least there are women here today in the Chamber who are taking the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2679	Once again, thank the representative for raising this debate. As the representative also knows well, I myself have been in the Energy and Environment Committee for quite many years before I got this job. I think the last time we really had a wide-ranging debate on these issues was in the context of the treatment of the Energy Communication back in 2016. Yet – and even then – this debate was not so prominent. I remember it quite well, and that really wasn't the big overall theme. At least it was very clear to me when I got the honour to become the Council of State last year, that I wanted to look at this whole field with a slightly wider look than what has been done before. We've never before had a big message like the one I've notified that we're going to put forward, which looks at all of our different energy industries in the context and with a clear focus on value creation and the red thread that goes from how we're going to manage to cut our greenhouse gas emissions while at the same time we're going to facilitate growth and value creation. Then I think it's no better starting point than just looking at the energy industries. So the big message becomes, to say it with a little folky word, a kind of combination of a petroleum message and an energy message. It's not a pure energy message, someone has started calling it. That's why we're saying all the time that it's about value creation from Norwegian energy resources. You can't do that without the network structure being good, so I've been clear all along that this is a topic that needs to be well mentioned in this message, where we also look at, among other things. how we can – as we have seen in this debate today – cut the lead time for the development of a new network. It's important to see if we can take action to get the pace up and that it goes faster without losing sight of the principle of efficiency, that is, that we don't have to build more than what we need, but that we're going to build enough that it's not a bad shoe or a bottleneck. I welcome that debate. I think it's an incredibly exciting theme. I'm experiencing a lot of commitment around it. We've got a lot of hearings for the message, and a lot of actors are very much on us. There's no doubt that OK, then we didn't have that debate a few years ago, but now this is full force. And I am happy to be able to follow up on and with subsequent debates in Stortinget when the big message is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-19.ana.ud578e2690	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over. Case No. 7 is a record, and we've taken that. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
