ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e65	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Willfred Nordlund on parental leave from 5 April to 7 May from the representative of Une Bastholm on parental leave for the period from 29 March to 18 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Northern Ireland: Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen 7 April–6. May For Oslo: Per Espen Stoknes 7 April–18. June
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e107	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e112	I have the pleasure of promoting a proposal on behalf of Mona Fagerås, Freddy André Øvstegård and myself on better vaccination against HPV and genital warts. That's a word I didn't think I should say here. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e117	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e122	On behalf of the representative Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I would like to propose stricter language requirements for health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e127	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e132	On behalf of the representative Heidi Greni and myself, I would like to make a proposal to close the state's work on the protection of the fjord arm Børgin in Trondheimsfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e137	The representative of Mr Morten Ørsal Johansen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e143	On behalf of the representatives Hans Andreas Limi, Sylvi Listhaug, Erlend Wiborg, Tor André Johnsen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I would like to propose increased value creation and more jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e148	The representative, Sverre Myrli, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e153	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Ingarill Olsen, Øystein Langholm Hansen, Kirsti Leirtrø and myself that no one should lose the fixed phone until they have mobile coverage or other telephone solutions with at least as good coverage as a fixed phone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e158	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e163	On behalf of the representatives of Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Terje Halleland, Roy Steffensen, Helge André Njåstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to ensure a more comprehensive management of aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e168	The representative, Seher Aydar, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e173	Red proposes not to set a time limit for the entry into service of wind turbines on the Oyfjellet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e178	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e183	On behalf of the representatives Per Olaf Lundtägen, Willfred Nordlund, Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a reduced employer's period I in combination with compensation for wages and for the loss of stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e188	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e193	On behalf of the representative Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I have been delighted to make a proposal for a representative on the reinforced punishment in the event of several serious privacy violations. In addition, I have been pleased to make a proposal for a representative on behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Jon Engen-Helgheim, Himanshu Gulati and myself that the use of fire bombs and similar very serious acts directed against police and courts are subject to as severe penalties as terrorist activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e201	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e206	On behalf of Morten Wold, Himanshu Gulati, Erlend Wiborg, Per-Willy Amundsen, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to move the Norwegian Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e211	The representative of Marit Knutsdatter Strand will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e216	On behalf of the representatives Jan Bøhler, Heidi Greni, Bengt Fasteraune, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on the subject of working life and a more practical secondary school for increased recruitment to the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e221	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e226	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Mona Fagerås, Lars Haltbrecken, Eirik Faret Sakariassen and myself, I will present proposals on crisis measures and a green recovery plan for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e231	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e236	On behalf of Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson, Karin Andersen, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Mona Fagerås, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a proposal to avoid a lost generation for democracy, culture and sport as a result of the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e241	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e246	I am delighted to make a proposal on safe and child-friendly transport and clean air in cities and agglomerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e251	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e271	The history of Norwegian North Norway policy has been an active state, a state that has had the will and ability to see the importance of the Northern Norwegian part of the country – a part of the country that covers 35 pst. of our land area and 60 pst. of our sea area, a part of the country with huge resources that is strategically very important in nature, with eternal fishing resources, good breeding, oil and gas locations, large renewable energy resources such as hydropower and wind power, large mineral resources, a huge nature – and I could continue. North Norway is a part of the country rich in resources, rich in opportunities, rich in history, but which has become poorer on a building policy, poorer on the spread of public jobs, because of a massive centralisation, and unfortunately poorer on people, the most important resource of all. In total, 7,746 people moved out of North Norway in the last two years. It moved 7,746 more out of the country than into the country section. The figures are dramatic, and it is not only the small coastal communities or forest communities, the small and large communities along the coast and around the whole of North Norway that are affected, but also the largest city in North Norway, Tromsø, the Arctic capital of Norway. There were 924 more who moved out than they did to Tromsø in the last two years. The number 924 is enormous when Tromsø has been one of the cities that have had steady growth. Now we see that the largest cities are also hit by centralization. All alarm clocks should call a Norwegian government when the northernmost part of the country is gradually being tapped for people. But what does the government do to counteract this? What measures are being taken? What new grip is now being warned? It's nobody. The government has done the opposite. They have coerced Troms and Finnmark, even though 87 p.m. of the Finnmark population said no to this coercion. They created a new region larger than Ireland, a small functional region. The defense has moved helicopters from the north to the south, they've put down Andeya, there's been constant unrest around the 2nd Battalion, to mention something. We've seen the centralization of police times, and there's a lot of unrest in many communities around North Norway because the police aren't there as they used to. We have had a charging policy that has hit the continent hard. An example is the aviation charging policy – On-road and the fare. As it was set up by the government, the fees increased more on a return trip to Bodø–Stokmarknes than on a return trip to Oslo–New York, and this in the name of the climate. People can think even when you see where it hits hardest. Although the government has increased nationally, they have removed the supplement for Nord-Troms and Finnmark in the past. 54 Nordic municipalities have lost state jobs, although the number of state jobs in Norway has increased, and there has been constant concern about the provision of ambulances. You've put your teacher's school in Nesna, even though you need more teachers in Northern Ireland, not fewer. The nursing education has been completed in Lake Sandness, and today the Right on Stortinget will confirm the Right's wish in the government to triple the CO 2 fee. Which part of the country is the hardest hit? It hit hardest the northernmost part of the country. Centralisation generates centralisation. That's what we're now seeing in the dramatic movement numbers. We see a part of the country, the Nordic part of the country, which has the challenges it now has, and we're going to deal with a perspective message in Stortinget, a perspective message that will, by its very nature, be about what is the biggest challenge for the country in the future, and what the government has to answer to the biggest questions. At that time it would be thought that the government had an analysis, some measures, some action, for the Nordic part of the country. I've been looking, looking, looking, looking: what are the grips of North Norway in the perspective message, or against centralization? North Norway is not mentioned in a word. Not one word is in the perspective message about North Norway. I've been looking for Troms and Finnmark. The only thing I found was a footnote. The only thing Troms and Finnmark have received in the perspective announcement is a footnote on marginal tax. Nordland is not mentioned in a single word. If we're going to sum up what's the perspective in the perspective statement from the government about the Nordic region, it's actually just a footnote. But e.g. In the case of an electric car, there is a great deal of mention of the electricity car in Norway. What kind of perspective is this? The lack of attention and the total absence of developing the whole of Norway are in stark contrast to the governments we have had in the past, who have seen it as their task and duty to develop the whole country. Then the conclusion has been that we need an active policy, an active state, we are going to develop the unique parts of the northern part of the country, and it has been a successful policy. If we're going to look forward, we have to learn from history. After World War II, when Finnmark was burned down and there were major challenges, a big message was presented about the repatriation of the war-torn areas, especially with a focus on Finnmark. It was very concrete, there were many measures, almost down to the number of logs, for what to do to build up the northern part of the country. It was a real development plan. In 1951, you had an extension program for North Norway, and it's pretty interesting when you go in and read it. I'll read a little sentence from that development plan: The government considers the development of North Norway not only to be a major national task and duty, but to be a measure of importance to the Western world. I would recommend everyone to read that big message. It's ambitious, clear and clear that a person wants to use resources to build up the northern part of the country. The success story from there laid the foundation for the District Development Fund, which we got in 1960. During the Borten government, the University of Tromsø was built – it was adopted on 28 March 1968. It was decided to have a district high school in Nordland, and the school was to be built in Bodø. It was decided to develop short-haul networks along the coast to link Norway together. It has given tremendous ring-effects. In the city of Bodø today, there are about 700 pieces that only work in Onionsøe to drive the huge bet that happened then. We've taken a number of steps before to build the Northern Norwegian part of the country. 70 years ago, they had their own development plan for North Norway. When we see the dramatic movement figures that we see now, we want our own North Norway plan, a clear North Norway plan, because it is important for Norway as a country that we develop the region. We have to lower the flight prices. We have to lower the vacation prices. We need more personalised measures that make young people want to bet and dry to live in the northern part of the country. We need to get more places to study. We must have an active tax policy that makes it profitable to set up businesses, so that more people dare to invest in establishing businesses in the Nordic region. We need to locate state jobs around the country, and we need to stop centralisation. We must have an active fisheries policy, we must build a new industry, and the continent must have a greater share of the income of its large natural resources. We simply have to invest in the country. We don't have to invest in the county because it's a shame in North Norway. We need to invest in the region because it is important for the country of Norway that we use the large resources that that part of the country has, and it is very important strategically for Norway as a country. That is why we must have our own North Norway plan. That's why we have to reverse the negative population development we have now, and get back to growth. And we have to learn from history. Once again, we have to make it clear, as we've done before, that it's a national duty and a national task to expand North Norway. It's important for Norway, and I'm happy to hear the Prime Minister's perspectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e308	Thank you to the interpellant for giving us an opportunity to discuss an important issue of development in Norway. The population development we see in the districts and in northern Norway will see more of the next 20-30 years as a whole. The discussion of which strategies we are going to use to ensure value creation and good services across the country is a central theme of the perspective communication, which Stortingen now has to deal with. If we look back a few years, developments have shown that we have had, in particular, population growth — or slowed down the fall — in the areas and periods where there has been high growth in value creation and at the same time good relocation of workers from the EEA territory. It should be noted that the extension of EEA cooperation to the east has contributed to both population growth and value creation in Norwegian districts. That's why we need more people to solve a lot of the big value creation tasks we have. If we are to have sustainable municipalities, where relocation is slowed down and local communities are developing, people must first of all have a job to do. We must then facilitate the competitiveness of businesses throughout the country. We do this by ensuring that the groundwork for business development and jobs is in order. This base wall consists of several elements. We've reduced taxes and taxes by 34 billion. kr to make the entire Norwegian industry more profitable. We have lowered the property tax for Norwegian owners, but with a conversion in which property, with the largest values in cities, is valued more, while the tax on working capital in all parts of Norway is reduced. So the tax on ownership in the districts is, with the conversions we've done, reduced. The EEA Agreement may be the main instrument for export companies, not least in North Norway. I have mentioned the availability of labour through free movement, which has contributed to better development and that there are more people living in Norway. But it is also true that these jobs, which we particularly have in North Norway, depend entirely on the EEA Agreement. Nordland is one of Norway’s largest export countries. An almost total industry warns against notifying Norway out of the EEA. Europe is their major trading partner. Europe also has a large market in aquaculture and fisheries. Working life in North Norway needs good and predictable framework conditions. It's the foundation wall to keep the population. Then we need the EEA Agreement. The challenge of the EEA Agreement is to waste tens of thousands of jobs, and it is to strengthen centralisation and increase the decline in the population of District Norway. Good transport is also part of the groundwork for jobs in the districts. That's one of the reasons why we've doubled the budgets of our government. When the Minister of Transport and I presented a new national transport plan on Friday, we showed how we will continue the government's historic journey promise. Nord-Norge is located among others. to realize two major airport projects, in Bodø and in Mo i Rana. Good communities also need good access on the fast Internet. At the beginning of February, the government launched a historic initiative on fast, wireless broadband in the districts. Profits from the 5G auction over the summer may be reduced – against increasing at least equivalent amounts in areas lacking such an offer. This, together with other support, will facilitate over 800 million. kr to broadband from the state, a huge effort to ensure that we can develop good public services, but also even more businesses across the country. Minor forms fields also form part of what is needed to obtain viable enterprises. The government has simplified the daily life of Norwegian companies for 11 billion. kr since 2018. The annual savings for business are 28 billion. kr during the period. It is particularly beneficial for small businesses, many of which are, especially in District Norway. So to the interpellant’s question about ‘what has the Prime Minister done in the last year’. Well – then the handling of the coronary crisis will come up high. At the same time, the management of the pandemic and the impact of the important premise on the way out of the crisis, how we can create more and include more. One of the other major wishes of rural enterprises has been to improve access to labour with good and relevant skills. In the last year, the government has therefore prioritised measures that help us to develop the labour force across the country that today’s and future jobs require. In the current situation, the government has set aside billions in the last year through the Education Commitment to ensure the implementation and strengthening of the skills of apprentices, of high school students, and of lay-offs and unemployed. The pandemic is accelerating the digitisation of Norwegian society, and it shows us new ways of working. This week, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries announced two positions opening up remote work. We will gain experience of working more digitally, more independently of geographic distances and have started a work to look at rules and frameworks for this in the state. The creation of four pilots for the State House, including in Narvik, is also part of the work to help maintain and develop skills jobs in the districts. Tomorrow, the government will launch a big message on the completion reform in higher education. It shows that even though the results have improved during this government, our ambitions for the students are greater. Unfortunately, North Norway has the highest rate of non-response. Then it is gratifying to see that Troms and Finnmark have had the greatest improvement in implementation in recent years. It shows that it benefits with targeted efforts. Few places in the world are better suited to fishing and farming than in North Norway, and from the government we have laid down and will facilitate sustainable growth in the farming industry. We also have increased the value creation that remains in the community where the activity takes place. There are more people working in North Norway with fish, farming and fishing now than ever since 2008. And after the government has opened up to catching red meat, I'm glad to see the founders establish themselves, like the new redwood factory in Sortland. Access to natural resources for value creation is important, including to minerals and renewable energy. It is also exciting with new major industrial projects being developed to meet the needs of the green shift – whether battery technology or hydrogen. Here it is well located, also in North Norway, among others. by offering ferry services on hydrogen. From this government took over in 2013 to the beginning of 2021, there have been over 4,400 more inhabitants in Northern Norway, but the population has fallen since 2019, and there is a shift from smaller to larger places, in northern Norway as in the rest of the country. There have been fewer migrant workers, and there is no longer any birth surplus in North Norway. Low birth rates are one of the reasons why the government has an active policy for families with children in general and for those with low incomes in particular. Economic growth in northern Norway is also higher than the national average, and unemployment is lower in northern Norway than in Oslo. There have been 2,500 more state positions in both of the Nordic states since we took over. So there's no fewer jobs in the state, there's more people working in the state. We have taken the Army back to Finnmark, and the presence is strengthened by the reinforcement of the border guard at the Garrison in South Varanger and the construction of Porsanger battalion. Overall, the defence activity is estimated to have ring-effects in the north of 4.6 billion. kr in 2019. To sum up some of what we've been doing lately, and at the same time avoid potential criticism from the interpellant in order to be too general, I'm going to draw out some concrete examples: We've lowered taxes and taxes and increased child welfare. We've increased the number of study places, also in North Norway. It is invested in hospitals and healthcare in North Norway as never before, and we have arranged for the construction of new hospitals in Kirkenes, Narvik and Hammerfest. We're building a new technical school for fire and rescue personnel in Teldensund. We are strengthening the Centers for Oil Protection and Marine Environment in Lofoten. We have proposed the establishment of a new rescue helicopter base in Tromsø. We strengthen the company's capital needs by establishing an investment fund in North Norway and a fund for young people. We are facilitating the development and use of new technologies through the Bodø–Moskenes hydrogen ferry. And no, it's not geographical areas that are mentioned in the perspective statement. But we actually have, of course, a big stake. The plan for the northern regions is contained in the Northern Region Communication, which is for treatment. I have no doubt that North Norway will continue to be an attractive place for the Nordics and foreigners to settle. But we must have our policy for value creation, for open trade – not the ‘close-minded-in’ policy of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e379	When the Brandtzäg committee presented its setting a little while ago, it was very interesting reading. One of the conclusions they concluded was that it is the public sector that is the major centralisation force in Norway, not the private sector. There are many initiatives and good people that create activity, but it is the public sector that is the great force of centralisation. What's interesting about the answer to Erna Solberg is that when she brings forward many of the measures, for example: taxes and charges are the national measure. But what are the additional measures to be taken for the northernmost states? What new tax measures should be taken to get additional growth there, which means that more people want to set up their business there? At the same time, we need to have a strategy for localising public workplaces to create a living local environment. The Prime Minister is raising child-responsiveness. The fact is that the Prime Minister cut the extra child-restraint for Finnmark and Nord-Troms, while increasing child-rescue in general. Nothing has been done about child welfare for the Nordic states to make it more attractive, for example. for a family of children who want to try to move from the south to the north, settle and bet. It has not been made more attractive, it has been made less attractive. It's the kind of personalised action we in the Center Party think you have to come along with. It is good that we have national promises, but we also need to have exceptional measures for the northern part of the country because the northern part of the country has a number of other challenges. It's longer distances, it's colder climate. Therefore, there has been Norwegian policy over a long, long period of time that we have used extra resources to grow and develop in the former three Nordic states — now two, and soon three again. Then we have one of the greatest political grips Prime Minister Erna Solberg has taken. It's forcing Troms and Finnmark to merge. It is interesting to hear her perspective when she used so much power to force through that conspiracy against the will of the people. What gains does the Prime Minister think it's going to give? What is the gain when she has used so much prestige and political power to force the states together? What's going to be the prize in the future, and what will be the cost if we in the Center Party or others reverse it? I want to end with what I started with. There are 7,746 people who have moved out of the northern part of the country than have moved in. Does the Prime Minister see it as a problem, or does she think it's all right? If she sees it as a problem, the Prime Minister must join in on a new North Norway bet that will allow us to say in time that there are more people moving into the country than move out, as the situation is after eight years with Prime Minister Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e390	Before the pandemic started, the main challenge in North Norway was that we had a lot of good jobs, but get people to the jobs. We lacked skilled labour. That's why some of what we've been doing in the last year, raising skills and knowledge, helping people gain more competence in this period of slowing things down. That's why part of the global, big grips we take for the whole nation are especially important in North Norway. It's also like that, for example. in Finnland is a larger share outside the labour market than in many other counties. That means we have to look at the resources we already have to add, and we have to get more in. I agree that we should work for interesting and good new strategies. One of the people I've mentioned is that you can be employed in the state, even in departments, and live elsewhere. This is what we are now trying to do as a new measure. We've had a commitment to make sure we get more competent teachers in North Norway, make sure that we stimulate more people to take the teacher training and be there afterwards. This is why, a few years ago, we introduced a significantly better student loan financing for those who are learning in the north, as a targeted measure to get more people to live. I believe that such measures are important in meeting these fundamental challenges. The fundamental thing in the future is not that we can stop changes in the public sector. Our major challenge in the future as a nation is that we need to have more hands in the private sector, more qualified, more working there. We have to modernise our public sector, we have to make the changes where we move from administration to services. What we've actually done is get more in the service sector in the state of North Norway during this period. We've also made some changes using the digitalisation potential to make things easier for businesses, make it easier in the public sector, to have more hands to solve the challenges. I understand that the Center Party in general is against it. This big number that the representative made of the perspective message gets a little special, because at least in the 2009 message to the red-green government was North Norway mentioned zero times, Troms zero times, Finnmark zero times, and Nordland zero times. That's not a big point for me, but since it was a big point for the representative, it's interesting. We've delivered a north-eastern communication, and we've moved the north-eastern focus from being a foreign policy focus to also being a focus around North Norway. Therefore, very much of the process we have had around the North Sea Communication and the actions in the North Sea Communication, also intended to provide more population growth, access to more labour, is that this region is going to use the great potential it has to continue to be a dynamizer of future economic growth for Norway, for it has been North Norway in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e405	It is a challenge that we have seen strong centralisation in recent years. And as the interpellant points out, we see a population decline in District Norway. It's a development that's worrying. We have to make sure that we have a policy that makes people see the opportunity to live, work and live outside the largest cities and towns. Our prosperity development depends on our having living communities that can contribute to the development of jobs. We are totally dependent on the fact that we have people and activity who use the whole country. If we are to have activity and live and good communities throughout the country, we must also actively facilitate it. We must have a political direction that looks at District Norway, and we must have a big one – and not least one government – that raises the opportunities in the districts. Victor Norman, who led the demographic committee, points out that we need to have a policy that provides housing, a policy that makes it attractive to live and work outside the big cities and towns. An increasingly strong centralisation policy is in many ways the death of districts and becomes the problem of cities. Unfortunately, this is exactly what we have seen from the Prime Minister's government in the last eight years. We have to stop setting up cities against the districts. This must be about Norway as a whole. We need a policy that makes young people see opportunities in the districts. There are many approaches that need to be taken if we are to succeed in maintaining and developing living communities in the districts. The first thing – and obvious – is that people have to have a job. The other is strong and good welfare services. The third is infrastructure. So we need to create more jobs in the districts. These may come from fisheries, agriculture, mineral industry, forestry and clean and renewable energy-based industries. But if we are to succeed in creating more jobs, we must have an active industrial policy that seizes the opportunities, and we must have a state that contributes and does not withdraw. Removing traffic stations and centralising services away from the districts, as the Prime Minister's government has done and proposed, only reinforces the movement flow from the districts. When people lose their neighborhood services and get a longer route, it becomes automatically less attractive to stay. The Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals here in the UK on better rural policy in recent years – not to plague the government, but because we see that it is necessary to have a stronger grip on rural policy. We need a more active state. We in the Workers' Party are very clear that we need to strengthen the export-oriented industry. We need to continue with differentiated employer fees and an industrial offensive with state, state, municipalities and private business to strengthen existing jobs and create new ones. We need to have tendering rules to enable local contractors to participate in the competition. We need to have a stronger focus on regional food development resources. And we need to have a better order for commuters. Furthermore, we need to increase the income of municipalities and counties. They must be able to carry out local and regional development work. We also need to establish community services where people get their services near where they live, such as. passports, driving licences and other civil duties. The health services must be close to where people live. The ambulance has to come, and it has to bring the right equipment and personnel. Women who are to be born must have the security of having the necessary help, and people in acute disease cases in the districts must have the security of rapid assistance. Then you have to have a decentralised education offer. We have to put broadband in place -- a little bit the same way we made sure that people got access to electricity. And we have to have a principle of subsidiarity for government governance. State enterprises must be actively used in rural policy, and the growth of state jobs must be ensured in order to distribute around the country. So it has to stop shutting down and centralizing state services. Digital services are used where it is reasonable and possible to improve the proximity of citizens, but we need to have a rule that regional policy considerations need to be assessed each time new reforms are implemented. If we are to succeed in using the districts, in having people living and working all over the country, then we must have a government and a strong state that helps to develop our communities – not wind them up. The Labour Party has been very clear that we in the government will give priority to making a strong regional commitment. We have 60 points for a better rural policy – for work, infrastructure, health, climate and environment. We see the possibilities in the districts, and we want to take care of the opportunities we see in District Norway. Finally, we must end statements from the districts saying that the state has left them. We definitely need a new course in district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e430	There is no doubt that we must take seriously the challenge of leaving the districts. But to take this challenge seriously, you have to have a policy that really takes evil at the root, and then you need a policy where the opportunities that exist in North Norway are put into practice. It's about having an active policy to respond as much as possible to the people and initiatives that help create growth and jobs in North Norway. This means that a tax policy must be in place to enable private entrepreneurs and others who want to invest to do so and to use the private capital they have so sorely saved – not to bottle North Norway for half a billion in wealth taxes every year. But the Center Party is going to turn on the bulk and spend a billion driving empty mail cars around in District Norway because it's important symbol politics. It's not particularly accurate. I believe that when you look at perspectives, it's all, the most important thing to address those very perspectives. In addition, the red-green Troms and Finnmark did not mention either their 2009 or 2013 perspective message, and I do not remember that it was just cheered when their north-area message was presented. We've done something about that. We have made use of the opportunities available in our part of the country, in North Norway, by saying yes to local initiatives, to the regulations and plans that have been in place for the region. It's just looking at the statistics. We have invested in infrastructure that means that the distance constraints in North Norway, which is large, have decreased and will continue to decrease. We have a reduction in the maintenance run on the national roads, and we have started a stepping-up to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads, which are so important for the coastal industries, where we have a sea food industry in growth, and where opportunities are great. It's about creating the future jobs that make our youth, who are now increasingly completing high school, have jobs to go to. If they don't, then it's not nice that they move. That is what this debate should be about. What policies the individual parties put forward in this Chamber will provide as many private, interesting jobs as possible? Or are we going to sit here and discuss how much money we're going to spend on the state budget to have the most possible state jobs around in every coastal community? That's not what's viable. That's not what's sustainable. It is not sustainable for the Norwegian state, nor is it good for North Norway. Nevertheless, I would just like to remind you that this government, through reforming the state sector, has helped us both to operate with fewer bureaucrats and to use the whole part of the country. It's not without reason that we've got a department of the Education Directorate in Tromsø, that the Food Agency has an office in Sortland, or that we've got more professors as researchers, and that makes the University of Tromsø increasingly take up new, international positions in research projects, participate far more in those arenas and bring a lot more money home. We are creating new opportunities for the future. We have more police in the districts. In the North Troms, the police reform has made the Central Party rapporteur in Lyngen jubilant. Finally, they see the police in the streets! It's creating reforms within the state and welfare services we're going to deliver from this hall. It's really doing our job. It's meeting the future in a good way. What it should be about is how we operate this state as efficiently as possible, provide the best possible services to our citizens, get more of our young people to complete high school, so that they can meet the future in a good and safe way, that we get researched and developed, so that we meet the unknown future in a better way, and that we continue to invest in infrastructure, so that the distance disadvantages that may be in my part of the country become less. Then you can reflect a little bit on what it would be like in North Norway – when 80 pst. of what we export, goes to Europe through the EEA Agreement – if the parties that are about to grow on the measurements and that do not want to have anything to do with the EEA Agreement would get their way through and drive around with empty postal cars? What kind of symbol policy is it really you want to implement? It's not a policy I have any faith in. I believe that the very best thing for North Norway is a still bourgeois government that continues on the course we have taken. It will help create opportunities and future-optimism and make it possible to get back to the path we were on before the pandemic – with record low unemployment and many opportunities in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e449	I wish the Center Party wouldn't talk down my part of the country, which I feel they're doing in the story they're trying to make about North Norway. Because it's respectfully not reporting correctly. Based on the figures for internal migration in Norway, it is based on data on the aftermath of the migrant crisis, when a good number of asylum seekers were placed around in the Nordic municipalities. The statistics are ready. It shows that between 62 pst. and 73 pst. of those who have moved from North Norway between 2016 and 2019 have a migrant background. If we look at native northerners, who are born and raised in North Norway, there is now a lower level than under the red-green government in terms of emigration from North Norway. That's interesting, and it shows you how to play with numbers. Nevertheless, it is important to facilitate my part of the country, North Norway, to be sustainable and bring the rest of this country with it in terms of economic development, in terms of value creation, in terms of nutrient basis. That's what this is all about. It's not about state jobs. It's about a good business that creates values and creates jobs so people actually have something to do, because it's job number one. In North Norway, we have to have the jobs that people want to work on, which are for the benefit of the whole nation. For North Norway can and should be an economic engine for the entire country. If we are going to go into the details of what the red-green stand for, we are going to go to the next election for a majority vote in which the parties are competing for how quickly they are going to shut down the oil and gas industry, a fundamentally important part of North Norwegian development. It's going to drop several of these parts. As far as mineral nutrition is concerned, I've heard a lot of parties from this pulpit that we have to facilitate it. But do you? The truth is, it wasn't lifted a finger for the mineral nourishment under the red-green. On the contrary – one of the important issues that was actually resolved in recent years, which is about the establishment of Nussir in the municipality of Kvalsund, and which is going to create thousands of jobs, placed a central party council far below the drawer and did not take any action at all. Now it's at least solved. Now it's in place, and it's not the policy from the left that has created the basis for those jobs. This is how I can continue on a case-by-case basis, where you should protect, not create, and where you have bureaucratic obstacles that prevent you from getting established. So it's the constellation the Center Party is cooperating with, and that's what the Center Party was for when they put themselves in government. There are many things we can agree on. We're going to have broadband across the country; it's going to be expanded everywhere. It has also been proposed by the Progress Party in Stortinget. It will be dealt with, and I hope that the Central Party will support it. It's quite obvious that transportation is the bloodline of the economy. It's in North Norway as much as in any other part of the country. Then it is important to build that infrastructure. Even I've arranged for the North Norway Railway. I think that's right and forward-looking. But we also have to build the roads we need. In Troms, my constituency, there is a central party-controlled county municipality that is putting obstacles in the way of facilitating e.g. the seafood industry of Senja. There are county roads that need to be remedied to the greatest extent, but I do not feel that the state politicians are taking care of it at all. They're more concerned with fighting internally and discussing the Troms and Finnmark problem than with solving the problems out there for real people. That's what I'm afraid we're going to see more of if the Center Party gets what they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e466	A successful district policy has historically been crucial for Norway. Scattered housing has been a key to the welfare development we've had. There is nothing to suggest that the need to use natural resources will be reduced in the future we see ahead of us. So North Norway is a resource that we have to use. To use these resources for jobs, for value creation, we depend on people still living there, who see opportunities, and who use them. Most of Norway are different districts. Then the policy must have faith in all of Norway, and not least in the conditions for people to live, work and live their lives throughout the country, even in the north. That's what the interpellant deals with in its questions. The Prime Minister, in his reply to the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, showed that the government has taken a number of initiatives, made a number of efforts and worked on the framework conditions. The problem is that it does not weigh up the day-to-day policy to the government, which weakens the opportunities and housing in the north. That shows the moving numbers. Under the Solberg Government, basic services and jobs have disappeared. Security and preparedness have been weakened, and economic times for the municipalities and county councils have considerably lower services for people. Thus, population and travel distances cannot be the decisive economic prerequisites of municipalities to provide the help that people need, in care for the elderly, in kindergarten or in school. But that's the right mantra: one head, one penny. That's not how the expenses are distributed in this country. Social and geographical differences need to be balanced across large and small municipalities, between north and south, between towns and cities. The government is talking about the local economy of the time, but all budgetary studies show the opposite. It's hard being a local politician in North Norway. People and business are more dependent on a good flight offer than the government is willing to admit. Responsibility shall be transferred to the states, in the midst of an aviation crisis – costing what it will – and what it provides is uncertainty. Food and transport policy should help to facilitate the strengthening of the natural resource-based value creation of North Norway and its potential for growth. The state should have ensured that county municipalities were able to upgrade the road network, reduce ticket prices on ferries and boats, provide good training and provide a proper collective service – basic services that build communities and provide housing. Everyone in Norway should feel safe, no matter where they live — also in the north. We don't see any government taking that seriously. It is well known in the north that a house is often worth half when the key is put in the door. This has to be solved. The majority forced the government to increase the Husbanken framework, but at the same time the government has not wanted to do anything about the mandate and the legislation that makes it impossible for the builders in the districts to use the Husbanken – also in the north, and in my own municipality. The requirement is that everything should be sold within three months. That's not how the market works in the north. Even smaller cities can't sell projects that fast. So that's how we get housing shortages, and we don't create housing like that. The government seems to lack a basic understanding of how their day-to-day policy works in North Norway. Businesses are not going well, and we have a lot of growth, when the service provision disappears, the state withdraws and preparedness weakens. The nests are laid down, Andyya is laid down, and we see a weakened police force and reduced emergency services for the rest. Differentiated employer’s fee is the most important regional policy instrument we have, says the reports – that the state has different charges for a job in Finnmark versus Oslo to offset some of the basic cost differences that lie there, i.e. cohesion. It's a tool that should have been developed further, but so far we've actually heard very little from the government about how they work on that theme. commuters, of whom there are many in North Norway, where commuting is high, have weakened their opportunities under this government. It has become more expensive to be commuting. Those who have gone extra far and have a long journey to work should have received a reasonable compensation for this. The government, with Erna Solberg, has tightened in. Destruction of the opportunities of people and business by weakening their homes and moving people to the north actually reflects the political goal that the Right under Erna Solberg has worked for. Many parts of the business in the districts, including in the north, are doing well. We should have built it up, not down. The day-to-day policy should facilitate housing, secure housing, so that the opportunities were put into effect and we were strengthened by the positive that is taking place. Today, we have a government that makes sure it hits each other in half. The negative development of the population in the north can be changed by political decisions. It's about will, the will to acknowledge that everything is related to everything, and there's probably a government shift to make it happen. That indicates the answer from the Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e491	Politics works. Right-wing policy works, and it's centralising. It's noticed in the whole of District Norway. SV is optimistic on behalf of North Norway, because North Norway has a lot of resources. It is then necessary to manage those resources in a way that allows them to last for a thousand years, that we do not, for example, do not. destroys the basis for predatory fishing, ensuring that fisheries provide income and jobs on land locally. It's incredibly important, and it can be governed more by politicians than what you're doing today. It is in this way that policies in very many areas are taking root in the districts. A strong community economy that makes companies meet in a positive way in the municipalities, and that they simply have room for it, is positive. Therefore, SV strengthens the local economy. It's more important in the districts than in the cities, where some things go more by themselves. There is a need for a closeness reform across the public sector. The Prime Minister was in on it, but it has to be in municipalities and states to also use new technology, so that you don't have to centralize, merge, centralize and merge. It's about new thinking, so that not only the skills jobs, but also the services of people are spread, so that you don't have to sit in the car for hours to get a very common service. There is a need for a major effort on green instruments throughout industrial policy. SV has called it a fair green shift, and a lot of the resources are in the districts, both in North Norway and the Inland, from which I come. These are jobs that we have to provide for ports in Norway and not abroad, because they do too much today. It doesn't seem like the government has any policy to meet it. We have to use the entire action space. We can discuss the EEA up and down, but there is room for action in the EEA Agreement that is not being used today. I'm going to predict: after the Korona, now when so many small businesses out in the countryside that are engaged in tourism and travel, and all those who depend on it, break their backs because they get too poor help from the government and have used up all their capital – how are they going to dry up and stand back after that? Then at least we have to use the space we have, but the government does not use, to provide direct support to businesses for establishment, investment and marketing. We can do that in e.g. One, two or three years ahead, to help those who need it, stand up and stand, instead of just being occupied with those who are most powerful and have the most money from before, as the government is. It's all your big money going. There is a need to strengthen policy in very many areas. Decentralised higher education is one of the most important measures, which the government parties have unfortunately voted down when SV has proposed that we should have our own grants for it, both through the higher education sector and the county municipalities, so that they can operate it. Broadband: So it's not even possible to have kids in school anymore without access to good broadband. A few days ago, there was a report that says we have to invest one billion each year until 2025. Then there is broadband across the country – to everyone, to the companies as well. It has to be in place, because that's what all modern businesses need to do, that's what a modern society is. There is a lot I could have said about this, but point one: we cannot, as the Progress Party calls for, fill our feathers with waste and believe that we will live well from the fisheries ahead. Point two: if we're going to expand infrastructure, roads and railways, we have to stop spending all the money on giant motorway projects in central areas. We have to move the money over to municipal/communal roads and the national roads in the districts that need strengthening. And then we need the North-Norway and electricity on the Røøs- and Solørbahn. Then we get a modern transport year from North Norway to the continent. That will be good North Norway policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e510	In order to prevent relocation and centralisation, we need to ensure that we have good services and educational services where people live. We agree on that. We must have good transportation solutions. Recent proposals for NTP show further progress and enable and attract people to live outside the largest cities. We also need to invest in school, so that young people can be longer in the countryside. Secondary schools have an important role and importance as a centre of excellence for local communities. The signal from business and from schools, e.g. in the Nordic region, there is a need to maintain the offer you have. The business community in Nordland has guaranteed apprenticeships. The state report for Nordland shows that between 80 and 90 pst. by students have completed the last few years. In order for young people to succeed in getting through higher education, and for us to be able to recruit enough, we need to ensure that the widest possible range is available in as many schools as possible. Young people must have access to motivating schooling at their nearest school. It is important that each school has offers that can appeal to both sexes, so that students have real choice near their home. This is how we include young people and ensure the skills of the business community that are needed. Despite this picture, the Centre Party chooses to contribute to the reduction of many district classes in high school in Northern Ireland, and to the provision of transportation. This is serious. It's an offer that's going to be gone where people live. The county council of Nordland, the central party, among others have the financial councils, obviously wanting this policy. Then we hear that the Central Party owes it too little money from the state. This happens at the same time as the county council in Northern Ireland is concerned about having money on book. The result will then be a centralization – with the Central Party at the local rudder where people live. The left wants us to have living communities, both in the countryside and in the city. We would like to invite the Center Party to participate in this effort, but then they would have to have an active district policy and not just speak in large words in Oslo. The Prime Minister mentioned as a reflection that enlargement of EU cooperation to the east has contributed to population growth and value creation in Norwegian districts. Here I would like to mention what happened at Frøya and Hitra in Trøndelag – a marine food adventure, with salmon farming, fish factories and many new jobs and business start-ups, and with a population growth in the municipality that was characterised just 20–30 years ago by relocation. Population growth is characterised by labour from the eastern EU. We drones wouldn't move to the earcutter, but the population growth and the value creation were provided by labour immigrants. Frøya and Hitra have a great development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e526	The Christian People's Party believes it is good to talk about district policy and the development of the whole of Norway. It has always been the Christian People's Party's core policy to develop agriculture, to invest in entrepreneurs and not least to ensure a good family policy that makes it easier for people to have more children. All these are factors that affect where there are people living in our country, and that of course also applies in North Norway. It surprises me how the Center Party is trying to make it look like the government is responsible for the decline in the population in the north, and that it's almost a conscious will, that the government doesn't want anything good. We hear that over and over again in the Central Party rhetoric. This rhetoric leads to nothing but an unyielding and false debate. To inform the debate, I will refer you to the recently published Index Nordland. It points out that immigration from abroad has contributed largely to the growth of the population in Northern Ireland. But that immigration has stopped. In addition, there is some birth deficit, as in the rest of our country. The decline is therefore not due to the fact that the Nordic countries no longer thrive in North Norway and move from there because of government policy. On the contrary, government policies provide the basis for a growing business life. Travel, industry, seafood and construction have very good results and are growing throughout the country. The Nordgebiet Message announced an ambitious transport effort in the north, and when the NTP was presented last Friday, it became a word for action. The government, with the Christian People's Party and Minister of Transport Knut Arild Hareide at its head, delivered the most ambitious national transport plan for North Norway in decades, and the bets extend across all modes of transport, on both road, air, sea and track, but most on the roads and the coasts of the north. If there's no commitment to transportation in North Norway is good district policy, I don't know. The government has also led a business policy that has led typical district industries to flourish, whether fisheries, aquaculture or agriculture, including the supply industry, industries that have produced good results through this crisis that we have been in. However, it will change dramatically if the Centre Party takes advantage of its EEA policy, which will lead to unforeseeable and uncertain export-oriented district industry. An almost total industry strongly warns against notifying Norway out of the EEA, for Europe is their major trading partner. I am very surprised that the Senterpartien and the representative Schlagsvold Vedum are so eager to put the EEA Agreement at risk. To gamble with tens of thousands of jobs and, in addition, to use every chance they get, to systematically take away a misdemeanor description of District Norway — what good is that supposed to do? The Christian People's Party will help talk up and forward North Norway, business and living conditions there. We believe that words create something, and at least the negative representation of North Norway as the Center Party shows does not create faith and hope for the future for the people of the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e539	As a representative of the county of Nordland, I have to say a thousand thanks to the interpellant for addressing an important issue. I totally disagree with the previous speeches in that interpellant blackpainted my county and the part of the country I live in. On the contrary, quite a number of important questions were raised about the challenges we face and the policies we pursue. I want to highlight something that the interpellant said, which I believe is one of the most important things, and which I think is undercommunicated very much when we discuss district industries and North Norway. It's that the most important resource we have is actually not the minerals, the fish or the forest, but the people who live here. When one goes to the perspective announcement, which has been mentioned in the debate, the largest share of national wealth is not capital, but the value of our future work. That's why I think it's important, and that it's a value in itself, that when people live all over the country, we have to try to realize the values and the potential that lie in it. I'm a little unsure whether we're having a debate on the right premises. The debate we have here today is, to a large extent, an important debate, but it follows very well-known dividing lines. We're all very sure that the exact policy we have leads to the right results. But centralisation is not new, nor is it a strange phenomenon. We started with centralization when we invented the city about 9,000 years ago, and we've continued with it since then. For the first time in 2007, the number of people living in the country was about 1 000. half the earth's population in cities. UN forecasts show that by 2030 60 pst. Do that, and in 2100, 75 pst. of the population of the earth living in cities and not in rural areas — or, in good Norwegian, in rural areas. Is it different in Norway? Yeah, that's because we passed the tipping point of 50 pst. in 1945. At that time, half of Norway’s population lived in agglomerations and not in rural areas, and today four out of five live, i.e. approximately. 80 pst., in dents. What's interesting is that this is so closely related to the economic and industrial development of a nation. If we look at what drives economic development in the world today, it's no longer the primary industries, and it's not the industry. It is part of the provision of services, but mainly in the last 10 years, it is industries that have driven up the value creation process. That is the challenge we face in rural areas too, in the districts. There are also some other factors that drive in the same direction. Digitalization is one of them. People will live with other people, and when you are no longer geographically bound to be close to where your place of work is – yes, you will live where the offer is better. You want to move to a city. There are scientists who claim that in the year 2100 will be 80 pst. of the population of the earth living in the 600 largest cities. If we transfer it to Norway, it will mean 80 pst. the population of Norway shall live in the four or five largest cities. I don't think it's going to look just like that, but it's an indication of what we're facing. So the question is, how do we make it possible for people to live where they want to, while at the same time caring for what I think is an important value and a characteristic of Norway – that it actually lives people all over the country because it's a value in itself and gives us all the bigger opportunities? I believe that we are facing a very central challenge. It is that there is a very clear distinction emerging, greater differences between urban dwellers and those living in rural or less central areas. When I challenged the Minister of Finance on this a few weeks ago in the Questionnaire, he answered: higher education. Yeah, I think that's absolutely crucial. We have to close the education gap. Others must be given the opportunity to take education where they live, even when they do not live in a city. Yes, one must have greater opportunities to create economic values, and yes, we must invest in transport. But we can't just talk it up, as the representative of the Christian People's Party was busy. In fact, we have to deliver policies, and we have to use economic and political instruments that we have not used to date if we are to succeed. If we don't depopulate the districts of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e558	The representative Sivertsen, who just spoke, had some good points. There is no secret law that has contributed to the fact that the largest cities have had a very significant impact on the development of our country. The center party was also unable to do anything about it when they put in power. But to follow up on Sivertsen: I think the time is ripe for the smaller towns and towns in our country to take greater responsibility for development, as we do. Sees in Svolvær. Thus, government strategies are important for both coastal and inland areas, and not least for towns and cities. Sivertsen indicated that Norway has changed from 1945, when half bid in cities, to now, when over 80 pst. cage in villages. This trend has been international. Norway, however, is special; we are in many ways an exception in Europe. We live in big cities and small towns, suburbs and towns, outside on the other side of the valley and at the top of the valley in almost every valley. And almost everywhere one runs, there's a house, and not only is there light in the houses, but it's the Internet and good possibilities. The government has led, and leader, a successful district policy with scattered construction, competence and jobs throughout the country. Nevertheless: Attractive small towns and towns have important functions. They are attracted to people and businesses and are interested in development in their area. Due to the proximity of business, population and the public, small towns and larger agglomerations can contribute to the dynamism and drive to boost growth and adaptability in the surrounding region. The representative of Nordlund from the Centerpartiet called for a bulilast in North Norway. But it is. So he probably doesn't know his state well. My example is Svolvær. A lot is built in the centre, both with public and private investment. There is a well-functioning square, new housing and a new combined cultural house and hotel, and cafes, restaurants and shops turn to the square and bidegreg to make the city alive. Public construction and service functions, such as schools, cultural buildings and libraries, are located in the centre. Svolvær also has a stake in density. It has proved to be a good strategic choice. The city has experienced a marked growth, with a boom and investment outlook. It is maritime industry, mechanical industry and fishing, with fishing boats at berth and visible in the Svolvær cityscape, and it is growing throughout the business world. In recent years, many major players have invested in property, and there are many other projects under planning. However, there must be a good regional balance between growth, equivalent living conditions and resilient regions throughout our country. Difor are the municipalities important. The number of municipalities on the so-called ROBEK list under this government has been reduced from 46 in 2013 to only 12 today, and municipalities are equipped to create attractive and good communities if they want to. Small cities and major agglomerations must contribute based on local needs and aspirations. Norway needs more power centers to contribute to the growth and development of its districts around it. Business is a central part of cities and agglomerations both as providers of various services and as employers, but business also plays a major role in this. There is today a mutual interdependence between cities and cities and the surrounding area. It can give the districts good attractance. Many rural areas in Norway are hard hit by the demographic challenge. Enterprises and municipalities are unable to maintain and recruit the relevant labour force and competences. It negatively affects the development of nutrition and the production of services, which in turn affects mood and appetite — it becomes a negative spiral. In the long term, it will be challenging to provide good public services and maintain the quality of life of local communities in sparsely populated districts. It is important that cities and towns throughout the country are attractive enough. It will once again contribute to the growth and development of the entire district of Norway, and in this way Svolvær is a good example of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e573	As the Prime Minister explained, there has been a lot of positive development across the country, including in North Norway and Finnmark, which I represent. I must say that I am not familiar with the poorness and blackness that the Center Party is trying to produce my part of the country. Because things don't go so bad in our part of the country, in fact, things are going a lot better in Finnmark now than when the Senterparte itself was in government. The removal is less now than when the Senter party was in government. Then stop talking down my part of the country! The most important factor for people to live or live in is the possibility of having a job to go to. The best district policy is to facilitate increased job creation and housing. Then we have to facilitate the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses and people think it is attractive to live in the districts. There are several jobs that provide ground for increased housing. Several jobs mean increased tax revenues and increased needs for kindergartens, schools and SFOs. There is also a need for more food shops, hairdressers and pharmacies. Job creation is good district policy. Through budgetary cooperation in government and growth, the Progress Party has helped to reduce taxes by over 30 billion. kr. The dark red batches agree that all new cars will be zero-emission cars from 2025. It's only four more years. What consequences will it have for an area down to 30 degrees below winter time? With the Advance Party in government, we also got to do something with the digital class division that the Center Party had set up. In my home country, Finnmark, only had 8 pst. by the residents offering high-speed broadband. With the Progress Party in government it has increased to nearly 80-90 pst. today. The districts need lower taxes and taxes, and they also need better roads and infrastructure to develop the rural part and reverse population development. The districts don't need any more central party policy. The districts and Finnmark need more Progress Party policy. In the budgetary agreement with the government parties, the Progress Party had an impact on a transport budget of 1645 billion. kr. We got 500 million in place. kr for reasphalting county and national roads. If we are to develop the whole of Norway, we must also have regional politicians who look forward to it. Formerly fought politicians for their affairs until they were settled. Sometimes you won, sometimes you lost. Then you continued to work with that starting point to develop society for the benefit of the people. Unfortunately, it is a trend in time that politicians spend most of their time and resources on rematching and reversing past decisions. Unfortunately, it does not contribute to the development of Norway or its communities in the right direction. If you look at my region, which is run by the Center Party in the layers of the Workers' Party and SV, we unfortunately see it clearly. There's a trend the centre party has sat in the driver's seat for. They spend most of their time looking back instead of looking forward to developing the districts and communities in the north. Together with SV and the Workers' Party, the Centre Party operates a kind of county government that we have never seen in Norway before. In the eagerness to reverse the merger, they have stopped all processes, both politically and administratively. Unfortunately, it does not contribute to the development of the region in the right direction — on the contrary. To quote the leader of Nordlys from last Thursday after the last assembly: ‘Instead of social development, county policy has become an area of blame-sharing between parties, a battle zone between the County Council and the Government Parties.’ Finally, I have to mention Årøya in Altafjorden, where the County Council of Troms and Finnmark with the Centre Party in the driver's seat is about to wind up farming and rural communities with its policy and inability to understand the challenges of not having a ferry offer that helps to manage farming in rural areas. Karl Rødberg, together with his late brother, has built up his life's work on his homestead on Årøya – a farm that once was one of Finnmark's largest dairy farms, and is still a medium-sized farm in the county. Even after they have reduced the operation, the use is large and demanding. Farmer Karl Rødberg says in clear text in Altaposten on 18 January this year that he believes that the county municipality has closed down the farm. With the central part of the steering, Rødberg unfortunately has to pour the milk into the drain, and he does not get to deliver feed meal, which means that he sees no other solutions than to shut down the farm. Rødberg believes that there is no memory of normal circumstances on Årøya since Troms and Finnmark County, with the Senterpartiet in the head, carried out the re-routing on the boat route.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e604	The list of speakers in this case quickly became full, and several Central Party politicians are not allowed to sign, among other things. Geir Adelsten Iversen from Finnmark, who does not get the floor. He probably wanted to say something about, among other things, the fishing industry. I am pleased that two polls from the last four weeks show that the Central Party is the largest party in North Norway. Of course, people see who has a policy that is good for people and business in the north. It's the central party's policy that responds to the changes we want. The NHO produced a large report which was completed in 2015 and which showed what three different policy directions would mean for North Norway. Direction No 1 was to ‘follow’, i.e. to follow developments that were before 2015, i.e. not to take new political action. Direction No 2 was to "lead" that is, the direction that the right-wing government has followed completely since it came to power. The government started a large-scale centralization by changing the keys that determined how much money the different states would get from the state. The biggest tapers here were Nordland and the other districts. The state politicians got blamed for the cuts, and that was probably intentional. The Right Party and the Advance Party would like to lay down the county municipalities and rather have giant municipalities. It will really lead to centralization, which has been goal number one for the right-hand government, including the Progress Party, for seven years. The centralisation has happened openly, through the coercion of states and municipalities, but it has also happened in the hidden. The concept of ‘silent centralisation’ has become a concept of the strategy of the Solberg Government. One example is the closure of Helfo jobs in my large neighbouring municipality, Beiarn. That's where it lives. 1 000 people. It's probably a place that the state left with the government behind the rudder. The Helfo office in Beiarn provided good services, and they offloaded other offices. But there were no new people employed there, the jobs were moved. In 2018, the last five–six jobs were moved from the rural area, arguing that digitisation required a larger professional environment. These jobs represented as much employment in Beirarn as all jobs in the municipality of Oslo mean employment in Oslo. My county office, Saltdal, and Beiarn shared, is gone. Hubs shall be centralised and the State shall leave the districts. It's the people who live out of town, in the smallest municipalities, who leave first. Leading towards more centralisation is a political direction the government has specialized in. We're looking at the closure of higher education at Nesna and in Lake Sandness. The government points to North University, but it is clear that the leaders and the willingness to centralize come first from the policy pursued. The closure of Campus Nesna means lack of teachers and nurses, especially in Helgeland. It disappears from 100 to 120 jobs from Nesna. And the trade union community isn't moving to Mo in Rana. No, they're moving to Bodø and Levanger — another centralisation done. Talking about decentralised education later is like walking a mouse ride forward, after taking three big steps back. The third policy direction is to ‘turn’. That is to bet on more district policy. Both the district industry committee, the Norman Committee and the Northern Territory Communication point to important regional policy measures. The government has ordered these to give a skin of change towards the next big shot. But there's the same policy, it's just the wrapping that's new. Many of the measures, such as cheaper tickets and better offers on boats, ferries and aircraft, are matters the centre party has promoted and the government parties have voted down. But what will countercurrent policy mean? What will it mean to turn to more district policy? Well, that'll be good for the whole of Northland and all the cities of Northland. It'll increase the value creation in Northern Ireland by 12.5 billion. kr. Leading towards more centralisation will reduce the value creation in Northern Ireland by 7 billion. kr. Turning to more district policy is good for the whole of North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e638	First, thank you to the interpellant for the opportunity to have this important discussion for us who are district representatives. I have a mantra in my life, and that's that activity creates new activity. We have to have work and activity to get development and to make people become. Safety for work is the most important thing. So you could say that there aren't jobs that are the biggest challenge in North Norway, that's labour, and that's also a truth. But if we are to keep our population – and preferably more – we need to have different jobs. The centralisation of state jobs does not provide a variety of jobs. It provides a one-sided labour market. An example of that is my own fishing weather, Havøysund. We have both fishermen and fishing industry jobs, but in recent years very many other jobs have disappeared, such as tax offices, fishing offices, the bank, etc. Havøysund is a productive fishing community contributing to the large export industry represented by fisheries, an industry to be included and bear Norway on its shoulders when the petroleum industry is once degraded. But there are also problems, for example. it is now connected to the pandemic only half capacity on the coastal route, and that means there is trouble carrying fish during the wart fishing. What's our capital, the fish, we don't get out. Recently, I saw an overview of one of the fish farms at home, which listed which days in the Easter – there should be operation in the Easter – they are allowed to deliver 60 tonnes and 90 tonnes, and that is when they have access to it. I've never seen such a look. It merely illustrates that it is lost money for fishermen, lost money for the fishing industry, but it is also loss for Norway. We may have to relate that to the Korona epidemic and that problem there, but that is a problem. In my hometown we have many non-resident workers – fortunately. My experience is that work is the best means of integration, and I want to say that the EEA Agreement not only gives us access to the market, but it also gives us access to labour. Although I'm an EU opponent, I'm always going to fight for the EEA Agreement, because it gives us an opportunity. We, the small country of a little over 5 million, have a market of almost 500 million. We can never get away from that, and I'm glad that we in this room at least agree on that area right there. The Prime Minister says there have been more state jobs in the north. I have no reason to doubt it, but what I know is that we also experience that it has been a disassembly. The Finnish Food Agency is no longer a regional office, as we produce a lot of food, the tax office is closed, the Finnish Road Service is broken up, etc. But I want to say here that to me the biggest betrayal is former Statoil, Equinor. When the landing of Johan Castberg did not come to Nordkapp, I changed my attitude to the petroleum industry. I was positive about it. They had a party in Nordkapp municipality on 12 February 2013 and promised to land, because we were also going to have ringing effects. They were missing. It's ring-effects from Johan Castberg, but they just don't come to us. So finally, what should we do? We should bet on the University of Tromsø and the campuses. We need to strengthen them. We should provide Nord-Norway with capital that is available to entrepreneurs. I think that might be great. We have to get state jobs out across the country, we have to have a plan for the development of a varied working life, and we have to expand the infrastructure, both roads and ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e657	When I heard the representatives from the Party of Advances, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it seemed as if the main message was what Kent Gudmundsen said: We shall continue the course we are at, stow the course forward. I hear that Per-Willy Amundsen – former government council, which started the centralisation of the police and the centralisation of the district courts – says that we should have the same course in the future. I heard the representative of the Christian People's Party, who spoke of us painting black so badly in the Central Party. The point is not that we're blackpainting the district. I think the northern part of the country is a part of the country with enormous resources, great opportunities and a rich history. But I've been very worried when I see the moving numbers from there, and we can't have a big debate where we don't discuss what are the real facts. And the real facts are that there are 7,746 more people who have moved out of the Nordic states in the last two years than who have moved in, and there are people who are registered in Norway. There's 7 746 more people who moved out than they moved in. We could create images of everything, but first you have to see what the challenge is, and then we have to take action. But when I hear the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, it seems that there are some new measures just to defend everything that is done, and then you don't see what we can do in the future. I fundamentally disagree with that way of thinking about politics. There have been many exciting articles, including: the representative of Sivertsen on urban development. It is also one of the really worrying features now, that the largest city in North Norway – Tromsø – has a decline in the population, with 924 pieces. Erna Solberg said when she went to the elections in 2013: Here is my plan for Tromsø and Nord-Troms. None of the actions that were planned have been implemented, and that is a little illustrative. Now we need a new North Norway plan in Norway. I believe it is a right and a duty we have as a magnificence and government to see the whole country, and that we are taking action. Then we have to make sure that air traffic is not transferred to the states – it is a mistake, it is going to weaken the short-haul network and the offer there. We've gone in the opposite direction. We must dissolve Troms and Finnmark, for coercion states against the will of the people are not deceived. We need to use fiscal policy more actively, which makes it profitable to locate more jobs in the Nordic states. We need to create more places of study. We need to locate state jobs around the next three counties. We need to strengthen the neighbourhood police force, and we need to have a fisheries policy that will bring the community back even more of the resources. We simply need to have a plan with a number of measures for the northern part of the country. We in the Center Party also have a vision of the North Norway Railway. We have to have some visions, but we have to start with grips after grips to lift the continent, and then we're going to hope that all parties can join forces that will allow us to get growth and development in the amazing northern part of the country, not relocation, as we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e672	Let me thank you for an interesting debate – not least it was interesting that the picture of North Norway drew itself as a little different during the debate than what was the starting point of the inter-pellant. There are challenges of relocation; there are challenges in Norway in the balance between older and economically active people. It starts in the districts of Norway, and we see that in many places it is going to be stronger. We need a national strategy on how to solve these challenges in the future for the whole country, of course also in a geographical context. We have presented part of this national strategy in our North Sea Communication, with a number of actions, including: measures relating to the provision of capital and issues related to how we will work more with the education system and a number of other tasks. And then I think what we can't do is turn pictures and black paint. I really think there are two alternatives here, a reversal option and a development option, where the government parties stand for the development option. And then we have to understand the challenges. In fact, I think that the post for Per-Willy Amundsen was an interesting and important post. If it's true that the majority of those who have moved out, who have not remained in the region, are refugees and people born abroad, who came under the refugee crisis, and who have now traveled to more central places, yes, it might be the introduction system, integration policy and the work we do in the municipalities, which makes us miss these resources. Then it's not what much of this discussion has been about, which would be the most important, but how we make sure that Syrian refugees who were placed around the country in the refugee crisis want to make North Norway their place – find their jobs and others there. If that's the correct analysis, there's a lot of areas to work with even more. The challenges facing North Norway are not really the lack of resources on the physical side. We have a lot of things and lots of creativity. I think it's absolutely amazing to meet the Nordic business community, see all the entrepreneurs, many who think, and all those who have something they want to do. The challenge and the bottleneck will be a shortage of relevant labour – to have that knowledge. This is why the commitment to our education system is so important, and therefore the commitment that adults can retrain, re-train and further develop and do so through decentralised solutions is also extremely important. Now it is that decentralised education is growing — in Mo in Rana, seven miles from Nesna. It's going to be changes. It sounds like things just moved away. No, they're redistributed, they're done in other ways. It's not like we don't have P-8 planes in the future, we have them in a different place in North Norway than we had before, it's not like it's demobilization or centralization. You could say a lot about Evenes, but related to this, I won't call it a violent central place in that way. Sorry, everybody in Evenes – it's a very nice place. I also think that the posts of the representative Sivertsen were extremely important. People are going to want to live where they can live with others, and be together about common things. So it's our job to find the simple keys that make us combine these relationships in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e687	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is going to be equal to 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e705	In the staging room, it's high below the roof. There are many meters between the roof and the floor. I'm sure it's because in this room we're going to think big thoughts, that the people in the village and town of Norway are dreaming about, can be made real by decision in this room. One of the big ideas that we are now going to discuss is the speed train, how we can use hams to make city and country, build the country and cut greenhouse gas emissions. One of the SV's big projects for decades that lead us is to secure a fair green shift by the state using all its muscles to equip Norway for a future with less inequality and cutting emissions. We must cut, build and share – cut out, build the land, share the good. In my eyes, lightning responded well to all three points. In 2009, Deutsche Bahn International’s report on fast and fast in Norway was launched, on the initiative of Norsk Bane. It had several interesting conclusions that should have provided the basis for large-scale planning and construction of lightning trains between the largest cities in Norway. How the travel pattern in Norway and the world after the pandemic host, is just now difficult to get an overview of. If we want to travel less, will we travel differently, or will much become like before the coronary antelope hit us? The answers will show us when the strongest restrictions on our lives are phased out, but we know a lot about the extent of travel activity that took place domestically before the pandemic. Oslo–Trondheim is Europe’s fourth most trafficked flight, with Oslo–Bergen in a seventh place. Between Paris and Lyon there were 940,000 travelers the year before the open lightning marched there. On the current lightning networks Oslo–Trondheim–Ålesund and Oslo–Bergen–Haugesund–Stavanger, there were 3 million and 5 million travelling by year in 2019, i.e. three–five times more than there was between Paris and Lyon before an open lightning train there. Almost 80 flights each day have gone in every direction between Gardermoen and Torp on the Austland and Bergen, Haugesund and Stavanger on the West. If it is transferred to trains, with 16 operating hours daily, it corresponds to approx. five departures per hour in each direction. All in all, there is a solid passenger base for the various light train trasés involved in Norway. Some of what may be under-communicated in the debate on lynching is the effect this will have on the districts. There will be no airport in Sauda, Skodje, Otta or Bø in Telemark with the first, but along the lines, either we talk about the Dovre connection or the Western Railway over Haukeli, a long range of district municipalities will be able to get a proper journey. It will be possible to live in the districts and work in a big city, or vice versa. High speed gives high productivity. We can cut travel times for train travellers between the big cities with many hours per trip. That's one of the most important points for why lightning trains is so important for people to choose trains. The shorter the train usage, the more of us choose the train first. The sharp separation goes by two and a half hours or less. With such train travel times I guess 80 pst. train in front of aircraft, simply because travelling by train is faster and much more comfortable than travelling by plane. If I'm going to travel from Stortinget and home to Stavanger by plane today, it takes between two and a half hours and three hours from Oslo S to Stavanger Center, including train travel, check-in, security check, waiting for the Gardermoen, flight, baggage pick-up, bus transfer at the Sun and further into the center. Today's option is the train leaving Oslo S at 2.30 p.m. 3:25 a.m. and is at Stavanger Center. 23.15, so true Go-Ahead luck traveling time. So it's right under eight hours. If I didn't draw the train leaving at 0:00 p.m. 15.25, I must wait for the night train or the train that goes tomorrow. With a high-speed train going at 2:30 p.m., I'd be in Stavanger by 6:00 p.m. If I didn't pick up the train at 9:30, I guess there'd be a new train every half an hour until the clock was 22. If I were to travel to Sauda, I would have spent even less time on the train – for two hours because I could leave on the way – while by plane I had to use three hours back from Stavanger and had a total travel time of six hours. For those who live in the districts, today's long journeys to and from the airports are heavy. Lightning trains where you can go on and off along the way will give the districts even shorter travel time than the cities at the end points, while the opposite is true for aeroplanes. Today's air-based transport seems centralizing. There are many Central Party spokesmen in the district of Norway, and they are therefore actively working for lightning trains, among other things. as a member of several lynchage forums. I hope the Central Party will actively support its districts in this matter and thus contribute to a balanced development of the whole country – city and country, hand in hand. High-speed rails in a multi-purpose concept for long-distance, regional and freight traffic will be positive for urban and urban areas and for the climate. Some of the most important things we can do in time are to make it easier for people to make the green choices. If a lightning train was an alternative, a journey from Oslo to Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Ålesund or Stockholm would be avoided in two and a half hours, and even shorter to or from the areas between the ends. Then all of a sudden, flights become the most impractical, and the green option becomes the easiest. Everything does not happen in Oslo either. It's especially for a Westerner that there's no ham between Bergen and Stavanger. There would have been good ringing in the West, which I believe both the Council of State and I am busy with. Deutsche Bahn International's report shows that we in Norway can reach 270-300 km/h almost anywhere. It will be easy to facilitate multi-use, i.e. both long-distance and regional trains and not least freight traffic. Freight capacity increases by 10 times compared to today’s rail network. With the transfer of air and freight traffic and long-distance car traffic, climate impacts are also high. CO 2 emissions could be reduced by 1.5 million tonnes with the Dovre Link and the Western Railway over Haukeli, more for a national network and more for Sweden and Europe. Under construction emissions are calculated to pay off less than seven years for lynching Trondheim-Møre and less than five years for the Western Railway through transferred traffic. But can we afford all of this? Yes, both because it is possible to give priority to non-air and motorway-based transport, and because such a competitive railway can provide income base through ticket receipts and freight revenues that can cover operating and maintenance costs and contribute to financing the construction of the railway, as the distribution to Deutsche Bahn International showed. These good results can be illustrated by example. For years, ticket revenue has covered the operating costs of the NSB on the Dovre and Bergensbahnen, even with low competitive travel times. SJ and Vy expect to be able to operate bananas at 1.1 and 2.2 billion. kr in excess over the next 10–11 years. When the travel time comes down for two and a half hours, the excess will increase, both because the market is getting bigger, and because the costs will be lower when trains and staff can do the job down to one-third of the time. In addition, freight traffic is affected. One of my good friends and political mentors, Hallgeir Langeland, spent his years at Stortinget to fight for lightning. Based on what I heard, he also had a good relationship with and good cooperation with Hareide, who is now Minister of Transport, but who, from 2009 to 2013, headed the Transport and Communications Committee of the Stortinge. I also understood that Langeland and Hareide had a lot of teamwork on the football field. But when SV's Hallgeir Langeland congratulated the newly elected committee leader in a line change here in the hall, Knut Arild Hareide had a very good answer: ‘I look forward to working with the representative of Langeland. I also see that the representative has a slogan on the jacket today saying yes to the lightning train. I am willing to sign that." The question is whether Minister of Transport Hareide agreed with Transport Committee leader Hareide in 2009. I really hope he is. SV fights to cut emissions, to share good and to build the country – that there should be good and climate-friendly infrastructure in both city and country. Lightning makes a good contribution to this effect. I hope the Council of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e755	I would like to thank the interpellant and the representative Eirik Faret Sakariassen for the opportunity to take this debate – not only with Hallgeir Langeland, but also with the Faret Sakariassen. I think it's important to focus on how we can develop the provision of train services between the largest cities in Norway, as well as on priorities we make in railway policy. It's been ten years since I discussed this with Hallgeir Langeland. Hausten 2010 we experienced that the railways in Norway were kneeling, and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa helped reverse the development. I want to say that in 2009–2010 we took care of the railway, and now we have triple investments, so actually we are developing the railway. It has to be in the perspective we're taking with us today. I want to take the danger of the sakariassen seriously and I want to raise the debate on lynch trains, or high-speed trains, which are the subject we're dealing with in Norway. It is defined as a train with a speed of more than 250 km/h, where there are very few stopping points along the line. Such a train offer would thus be able to compete precisely with national air traffic in travel time between the largest cities, but would not, in the same way, increase the mobility of citizens in small stops along the track. I want to say something about the assessments that have been made so far about the high-speed rail in Norway. In February 2010, the Ministry of Transport commissioned the late Railway Agency to address the possibility of setting up a high-speed rail system in Norway. The railway works carried out a thorough distribution, which was submitted in January 2012. The division concluded that the high-speed rail can be developed in the extension of the intercity network in Austria, and that double tracks from Oslo to Lillehammer and to Skien and Halden can be the first step in a possible high-speed development. The total cost of building all corridors was estimated at about 800 billion to 900 billion. 2013-kronor. The distribution showed that high-speed rail investment can reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector, but that emissions during the construction period, especially related to the construction of tunnels, will be significant. Therefore, it may take several decades for the high-speed rail climate accounting to balance by re-emission of reductions in the operational phase. All the sections surveyed had negative socio-economic net benefits because the necessary investments are very high. If the investment costs were kept out, traffic could provide the basis for a positive operating result for the operators. In view of the major transport challenges, especially for the railways, in metropolitan areas, neither the NTP for 2014-2023, which was presented by the red-green government, nor the NTP for 2012-2029, were set up to continue with concrete construction plans for the high-speed rail system in Norway. Instead, it was a priority to provide for measures that could make rail more effective in meeting the major transport needs of the cities. In addition, it was suggested that a new infrastructure trajectory on the intercity sections should accommodate 250 km/h on those sections where there is no significant additional costs compared to a speed of 200 km/h. Thus, they may be included in a future high-speed network. In NTP 2022-2033, the government commits itself to developing and strengthening the railway where it already has an important role in the transport system. The modernisation of the railway must continue if it is to be attractive to passengers. In addition to the construction of new infrastructure and better maintenance of today’s rail system, digitisation is an important keyword. New digital signalling systems and better network coverage for travellers will be key elements of modernisation. The development of the passenger train service will still largely target travellers who commute in and out of the large urban areas. However, the ongoing planned deployment also means that long-distance traffic can bring good benefits in terms of reduced travel time, multiple departures and a more reliable supply. I would like to mention some of the improvements we can achieve relating to travel time and several departures. The development of the Vestfold track will facilitate the reduction of travel time between Skien and Oslo by 15-20 minutes, in addition to a frequency of two trains per hour between Skien and Oslo and four trains per hour between Tønsberg and Oslo. The completion of the Dovrebanen project will make it possible to reduce the journey time between Hamar and Oslo by about 20 minutes and increase the capacity of two trains per hour. The completion of Follobanen and the Sandbukta-Moss-Sostad project will reduce the travel time between Oslo and Moss by about 13 minutes and increase the frequency of the local train between Oslo and Moss. In the second six-year period, the government has the ambition to provide a better travel offer between Hamar and Lillehammer on the Dovrebanen and between Moss and Halden on the Eastfold Railway. The development of the Ringeriksbahn will, together with more measures on the Vosebanen, reduce the journey time between Bergen and Oslo by about one hour and a quarter and allow for significantly more departures than today. It is planned to continue working on the plans for a new railway tunnel through Oslo. A tunnel will double the capacity of the railway infrastructure through the capital. This will provide a better route provision, more punctual trains and better regularity of traffic in the Austland, with positive ringing effects in train traffic elsewhere in the country. Intercity cost estimates have increased dramatically from the previous level. Therefore, different variants of the optimisation of the intercity concept have been considered which can reduce the cost of the remaining development, while retaining the most benefits. In the further work on optimisation, emphasis is placed on improvements in train provision in the form of increased frequency and reduced travel times, without the need to build coherent double tracks on the whole route. In a longer-term perspective, the ambitions for the development of the long distances could be further developed. In NTP 2022-2033, it is suggested that the point in the Granavolden platform to initiate line-high-speed rail deployments will be followed up by the government to implement a high-speed expansion for the Oslo-Trondheim route. I would also like to highlight more benefits and positive developments in the provision of long-distance services, which are made possible through today's rail investment. The Railway Directorate has carried out a report on the improvement of the long-distance train service, which was completed in the spring of 2019. The distribution assesses and recommends possible improvements in supply on the distance routes, based on both the start-up and planned infrastructure measures and on the socio-economic profitability of up-to-date market assessments. The conclusion is that several long-distance trains have a good impact on society, and improvements on all distance routes are possible and advisable. Improvements in travel time and several departures in South Norway have already been mentioned. Higher frequency and reduced travel time Oslo–Trondheim also provide opportunities for optimising correspondence to important destinations further northwards. Furthermore, I would like to point out that travel time is not the only thing that the traveller places on in the choice between train and plane. Apart from a desire to choose the most environmentally friendly way of travel, the number of daily departures, on-board offers and travel experiences is also important in order to make the train more attractive. In NTP 2022-2033, the government facilitates investments that improve rail network coverage. Passengers can then make better use of travel time, e.g. to work or to watch movies. We're working on improving the remote. We're looking at what possibilities we have, but there's no doubt that with the challenges we have with today's railways in and around the big cities, it's a natural priority. So we've increased the number of permits – triple them – over ten years, and we've shown our willingness to bet on the railway. However, I think there is something in time for us to have a high-speed train between the major Norwegian cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e791	The council concluded by saying that he believed it was long before one could realize the lynch train development in Norway. It is clear that if the Minister of Transport assumes that it will take a long time, it will take a long time, because it is the Council of State which is very much on the road to transport policy in Norway. If we had a Minister of Transport who was very busy building lightning trains, it would be higher on the political agenda. Then I have to say that I'm going to push a little over what the Council said – if I understand him correctly – that it wouldn't lead to increased mobility in the districts. I don't think that's right, precisely because the comparison with flights will be reversed when a journey by train for those who live in the district. Then we will have the shortest distance between the end points of the line, not at the end points, as it is today. I just want to show you again what I said about Sauda. If you're going from here to Sauda, you're going to spend about six hours with planes, but if you were going to use the lightning train, it would be less than two hours. So to what was said about the railway system: the railway system has never been particularly enthusiastic when it comes to lightning trains, and the work that was done a few years ago had some lack, which I think is significant in the debate. An omitted freight traffic from the overview. One asserted that less than 45 pst. by air passengers, a lightning train would be selected if it went less than two and a half hours, compared to the experience, of 80 pst. One omitted a lot of regional traffic with only three to five stations on the way. Between Oslo and Stavanger and Kristiansand, for example, one had seven, all three-five, and one had an average ticket income adjusted in 2019-kroner amounting to NOK 609 Oslo–Trondheim, Bergen–Stavanger, i.e. a low price of 450 kroner and an ordinary price of 800 kroner, which is very far from the cost of air tickets and accommodation services from the centre to the centre. If one adjusts the premises, I think it'll be possible to increase both income and get a surplus that can be involved and pay down the investments. So I thought I'd think that 61 pst. of the Norwegian population have said that they are positive to the claim: ‘Norway should afford to build high-speed trains between Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim’. It is good that the Council of State indicates that one will do a lynching between Oslo and Trondheim, and then my question will be: What about the West? Deutsche Bahn has pointed out that the Vestlandsbanen is also very profitable in terms of lightning development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e802	The railway has tripled its budget for less than 10 years. We have gone from the fact that we took care of the railway, to the fact that we actually developed the railway. But then I also think we have to be honest: the priority that we have now done, not least to intercity, is the most important thing that we have to finish that work. If we have started on something, we really have to end it too. And then it's true of Father Sakariassen that we get a lot of studies associated with high-speedness. But some of the problems are that the train has to go very fast between two cities, it doesn't give the same effect if there's too many stops on that road. It may not be possible for this offer to be real. Yes, we had almost ten years ago an arrangement that was made on the table. At that time it was Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa who got the distribution, when SV also joined the government, and we saw that the distribution was not really taken into account when a national transport plan was presented. And it's about when we put forward an NTP, there must be a realism behind it. We see that the numbers lying there were particularly demanding to be implemented in 2012, and that is also the case in 2021. And yes, there's a lot of exciting thinking about this, but to think about it within a realistic path, where I'll be honest. It also has some effects. When we take this into account, it leads to costs that are required for other elements of the railway. But let's take a look at the Oslo-Trondheim section. We thought it was important to look at it, and therefore we follow up with a statement. Back in 2012, the Südlandsbanen was brought forward, not with the high-speed section, but because the population base along the track was very good. One pointed out that high-speedness in itself may not be the big point, but building an even better path from Oslo to Kristiansand and from Kristiansand to Stavanger, not least to take up the traffic base between cities, that is, what was on the ground there. I think we just have to admit that with the investment costs that are here, it's a long way ahead, and also the climate effects of this, as I said, don't give as clear a picture as the individual fan draws on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e815	The debate on high-speed trains is not dead – that is, it should not have been, and we in SV should at least do everything we can to keep the debate warm, even in the years to come. It may seem that this debate is completely dead when we read the latest NTP presented. None of my search engines were able to find the word 'high-speed' there, so it's away from the NTP, as far as I can see. I think that's very, very sad. In the previous NTP – the current one that we're still going to rule after for a few months – it says: «all new routes are planned to be part of a high-speed network». So does the government statement, the Granavolden platform, which both the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, say that the government will ‘starting high-speed rail route investigations in line with NTP’. There's obviously something left got in, and you should cheer it up. Then you've got an answer by getting an investigation on Oslo-Trondheim. We appreciate that very much in SV. We have to be able to repeat some of the most important arguments, and the interpellant has also mentioned many of the reasons, for us to stick to the railway as forward-looking. It is a zero-emission means of transport when electrified. There are no emissions from road and tyre wear. It uses less space than the large highways that are being developed. Trains have much larger capacity than any other means of transport. It's a lower accident risk, so it's a very safe means of transport. It's making less noise. It's obviously the most energy-efficient means of transport we have. All of this together should imply that this is the future, it's not the past, that someone is holding on to. Therefore, Norwegian rail should be built as a high-speed rail in what the interpellant also called a multi-use concept for long-distance, regional and freight traffic. A pretty important point is how we're going to build North Norway, and in the previous interpellation we talked about North Norway and the districts. The North Norwegian Railway can play a very, very important role in the development of North Norway. I've used the analogy that Norway looks something like a dinosaur before, if we look at the map. We have a head at the top, and if we call our heads the resources, there's huge resources up north, and those resources are going out of the country, and they're going south. But the animal lacks a spine, and this new, green spine should have been railway, and it should have been “linked” to the body south – of course. Think of a fast, modern railway that can carry both goods and gold – we can almost say: read fish – and people between cities north, but also between north and south, between Oslo and Tromsø. Investigations carried out by, inter alia: Norsk Bane, to which reference was made here, shows that it will be fully possible to offer train travel times of approx. Six and a half hours between Oslo and Tromsø and a little over five hours between Oslo and Bodø – if you build correctly, by high-speed or high-speed train. We must never underestimate the importance of the railway for housing and economic development. It was in the Midwest when the settlers came to North America, and it will apply to North Norway in exactly the same way. Look at what the Urban Railway has meant in Bergen. There has been breeding activity, both new homes and more activity, around the new Urban Railway. When the seafood industry in the north is going to grow as much as many people want, it's been about five times, there's obviously a need for transport. Should that export take place on narrow roads and rubber wheels out of the country? What kind of forward-looking climate policy is there in the world? As part of the European Green Deal, strong green grips have now been adopted down on the continent. Good EU bureaucrats have calculated that the social costs of car use — ranging from accidents to road wear and health expenditure — account for about 4,000 billion. kr per year. Their answer, therefore, is to extend the high-speed rail system, but also to charge for transport. I'm going to come back to that a little bit, because that's a pretty crucial point, what Europe is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e867	The left has been very enthusiastic about high-speed trains for many years. We got a little crack, to be honest, when this report came in 2010, to which both the Council of State and others who have been involved in the debate here just referred. It didn't get very enthusiastic. Then we went it up again on the Granavolden platform, that's quite right. And we are very pleased that we now have in the new NTP a proposal to investigate Trondheim-Oslo. We are very pleased with the opportunity study that has been opened to Oslo-Stockholm 2.55, to see how to develop that route. We must be completely honest and say that there were frightening numbers when this investigation came ten to twelve years ago. It was high investment costs. That's probably what keeps fiscal politicians in particular saying that this can't be done. The left-hand side thinks there's got to be new thinking here. You have to think of investment by someone other than the state for such a solution. Lots of spaces have been made. It may be a purely private enterprise, it may be a OPS, public-private cooperation. I think there are some sources of investment that should be able to open up even more to infrastructure. We have agreed that life companies and other investment companies will be allowed to participate in this area. I think, for example, that the state pension fund resident, which today is almost a bit destructive to Oslo Exchange with its portfolio within limited liability companies, might have used something for infrastructure. I have also been in contact with Norsk Bane on several occasions and have seen the investigations that come from working with Deutsche Bahn. It's uplifting. But there we have not been given a clear indication of the amount of funding involved in this. I have never seen a good plan for financing these outside the state budget. What I hope for is that through this opportunity study of Oslo – Stockholm 2.55 we will see it – the company has shown that it is possible to think in those ways. Even when we are going to investigate Trondheim-Oslo, I hope we get more answers to that. I believe that it is as far as the Sakarisassa said that this is also a district policy instrument. There could be some stops. Although you have good time spent between Oslo and Trondheim, for example, it is possible to stop Lillestrøm, Hamar, Lillehammer and maybe a couple, three more places before you get to Trondheim. Obviously, you can still get there in about three hours. When I leave home and go to Stortinget, I use exactly three hours by plane. I might say I can take four hours on the train, I, because it's not as comfortable with these stressful flights with control and things. So I really hope that the people are going to use these. And not least, we know that we get an increasingly older population in Norway, who may both be able to travel more, are quite physically strong and would like to have experiences in other areas of the country – not exactly this year, but perhaps in the future. I think that's great for trains. It's a staggering long-distance train today. Oslo-Trondheim has full trains all the time. It'll be seven hours today. When we get down to three hours, I think there's a clear need for much larger capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e878	Thank you for an interesting debate so far. We have two major challenges ahead in this country, and that is that we are going to build the country, and we are going to cut emissions. Railway can do both – if done correctly. So there is no doubt: we should have a much more active railway policy in this country. More infrastructure, more modern double-track rail should be developed. That's the most important thing we can do to get more passengers and more goods by rail. Now I want to say right away, let's not forget the freight traffic. It's also very important. If we're really going to do something to it for greenhouse gas emissions, we also need to get more goods on track and more goods on the sea. In recent years, the rail debate in Norway has focused on how to organise what is going on up the track. Competition launching, privatisation, tenders, rail reform, new companies, new directors – rail policy is the main concern. It's really not that important. The most important thing is that we build more modern railways. So the interpolation is also interesting. Let me first take some conceptual clarifications, so at least I'll evaluate it. The term ‘light rail’ has been used, the term ‘high-speed’ has been used, and I heard the interpellant use the term ‘fast train’. I do not know whether it is conscious that different concepts are used, but at least I fully agree with the understanding of the Minister of Transport that when we have so far talked about the concept of high-speed trains in Norway, trains run for over 250 km/h on newly built rails. Up to those speeds is the conventional train. Someone might say that the Fly train is a high-speed train. Yes, it's a high-speed train, but it's not a high-speed train, because it doesn't go in 250 km/h. I interpret the interpellant so that he wants something other than what we are now building in Norway, for example. with the intercity development. It's very interesting, but we have to also say that what was done in the period of the current Minister of Transport was the head of the Transport Committee, and Hallgeir Langeland and Øyvind Halleraker and others were there, and there was a big discussion about this, was that one in Norway chose an intermediate variant, that one should build intercity sections that could later be part of a larger concept, a larger network with maybe high-speed trains, or at least trains with speeds up to 250 km/h. This is interesting, but we have to say at the same time that when we plan the intercity expansion for such high speeds, that's one of the reasons why the intercity expansion is also so expensive. We have to be so honest. It is much more expensive to build a 250 km/h railway than a 200 km/h or 150 km/h railway. It's very, very large cost increases if we're going to build for those speeds. We have to be honest with that. I believe, however, that if we are to move on with this, we must also look at new forms of financing. Aviation is self-financing. This means that we have over 40 regular airports in Norway, at least in a normal situation. It finances itself, without subsidies from the state budget – now it is a little special this year, but in a normal situation it does – through charges, direct charges from air traffic and also commercial charges at airports and all other options. We have a high level of toll financing on road development. It is clear that if we do not find other forms of financing on the railways as well, the development of the railways will slow down. So we have to think again about financing the railway. That is why the Oslo-Stockholm project, which we discussed earlier this week, is so interesting. It's not a high-speed project, but it's very interesting anyway, so it can bring the travel time of Oslo-Stockholm down to less than three hours. And that's a new way to think about financing, by establishing a company, taking up loans and paying off the loan through the ticket price. That's how we have to think more about the development of the railways. Then we can put in place more railway development in Norway and towards the continent. Think of what opportunities we have when the Fehmarn link comes – the expansion between Denmark and Germany, which is well under way – to connect the Norwegian rail network to the continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e897	There has been a great deal of investment on the railways in recent years, and the Council of State has largely explained it. I think it's okay to have this included, because it's now being built out quite considerably, not least here in the eastern part of the country, but also on the Bergensbanen and on other routes. So there's a big development. Some of the points must be that in the development of the railway it must be to build attractiveness, it must be to make the railway more attractive than the mode of transport chosen. We do that by reducing travel time, among other things, and by facilitating people to sit and work on the train when they use the railway. For me, it's the basic, and if one calls it one thing or another, the most important thing is that we can build the country in such a way, just to reduce travel time and make the train more attractive. It's not least about intercity here in the eastern region where you have so many people on such a limited area, which makes it possible to take out huge profits from it. The other side of this calculation is that we have also seen a cost development on the railways that is demanding, both because, I think, too much, at least in the context of NTP, has simply underestimated the cost of railway development. In addition, we see that the standard requirements have changed. So now we're going to have a review of, for example. The Folloban project, and few, that the representative Myrli was in, get an overview of what design speed means for the costs of railway development. I think that is also a very important matter to get past and a better overview of – not because we are not going to build more railways, but because it is simply important to us when we are going to define the level of ambition for the future, that we actually know what this costs. Then it's claimed that building more high-speed trains, or faster train rides, can be profitable, and that can be so much so, for example. may replace air traffic. An interesting example that we had here for debate on Monday, Oslo–Stockholm 2.55, is about building these two cities in Scandinavia in such a way that one can actually replace the air traffic. If you can do it in less than three hours, I actually think it might be a real opportunity. Then they have also, at the same time, presented and want to present possible financing models that mean that we can actually get to a railway development based on ticket receipts and revenues from passengers. It's incredibly exciting. I also think it is for both the interpellant and others who are engaged in high-speed rail – the development of good financing models that actually show the market potential of a user as a argument here, namely that it is profitable to build together, for example. Oslo-Trondheim by rail, which goes faster, that one can actually replace air traffic, and that one has a market potential that makes this pay off. Then someone has to take that risk, and I want to challenge a little bit that if this is so profitable, there should be someone who is interested in the business potential of expanding and taking out the profitability that might be in creating the high-speed rail system. It would have been incredibly exciting. I think one of the ways to get on with this is just to explore the business potential of it, to talk in some economic language. Then a high-speed assessment was carried out in 2012. It was the basis of the 2014-2023 NTP, which was made by the Stoltenberg Government. Now we have an NTP for 2022-2033. I think realism has come over us. The cost level, the ability to expand what we're doing now, must be first priority. So I'm not going to rule out that it can't be profitable at any point in time to think even bigger and even more visionary, but then I think we need to put forward some sort of profitability study, potential study, that shows the business potential in it, explore the funding models, see if it's possible, for example. public-private cooperation by developing the type of solutions. It would have been incredibly exciting. At least it could be a small challenge for both the interpellant and others if we could get further connected to that. And if there's anyone here who thinks this has an obvious profitability, I think it should be natural to challenge them to take a risk by developing these solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e912	Interpellanten is based on the investigations of Norsk Bane and Deutsche Bahn, and this is a job they've been working on for at least over 20 years – I think I was at the first meeting with them in 1999 – and I think it's quite clear that the numbers they're writing are voting. In other words, a high-speed rail between the major cities both in Norway and Scandinavia will reduce air passenger traffic, and there is no doubt that there will be a high level of profitability in the operation of such a network. Operations will pay off. As has also been pointed out by others in relation to the work on a high-speed investigation, it is clear that the high-speed investigation, by 2012, led to a disappointment because it was actually used to investigate the possibility instead of providing a basis for further work on high-speed rail in Norway. There's a lot you could go into and criticise the high-speed investigation for. There has been a fight in time to lift up again high-speed rail and its development in Norway. One thing – and the reason why we should have it – is, of course, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but as technology evolves in road transport and eventually in air transport, an even more important reason for having high-speed rail is the wider economic development it can lead to. It is clear that the high-speed rail system with a travel time of two and a half hours between Oslo and Bergen and the high-speed rail system between Oslo and Stockholm, Oslo and Trondheim or southwards towards Gothenburg and Copenhagen will have an enormous economic impact on these metropolitan areas. We need to figure out that part. It is important for cities, it is important for urban regions, but it is also important for the regions between major cities. There a high-speed rail has the enormous advantage over a plane that it will mean something to the whole region and the entire Scandinavian region. We need to think more about Scandinavia in context and the overall development that we need. After all, this is a country that, together, either politically, economically, research or educationally, is going to compete anywhere in the world, but it also needs a modern infrastructure and a modern railway linking these regions, the urban regions and the regions. This requires an increase in capacity and a capacity that only the railway can provide for both passenger and freight transport. Fortunately, things happen and have done it in the years up to now. In Oslo, we worked for many years on what we called the City of Attemion, a collaboration from Oslo to Copenhagen, looking at the possibility of a high-speed railway in that region. It has now continued through the STRING project, which looks at Oslo-Hamburg and an up-to-date and modern rail system and what potential it can provide for economic development throughout the megaregion. There is an OECD project and investigation ongoing. I am very pleased with the opportunity study for the Oslo-Stockholm section, which we adopted earlier this week, which will also open up the opportunity to look at the economic part of it and also to look at alternative funding. In the national transport plan, we now have a decision that follows up the point of the Granavolden platform on route high-speed investigations in Norway. There is no doubt, as was mentioned here, that this was a fight that left took, and I am very pleased that we are now getting the thorough high-speed investigation for Oslo-Trondheim. Then it is important to see that this is not just about when this will be done. This is also about not making mistakes in what we are doing today. One needs to have a perspective for the entire Oslo-Stockholm stretch in order to make the right decision on how the station solution should be on the Hamar. This is about the fact that it also matters to the bet we are doing today. Finally, we need to look at funding. We have opened up life companies and pension funds to invest in infrastructure, and then we should look at how Denmark has financed Øresund, Storebælt and Femern now, as they do through government-guaranteed loans. Maybe we need Scandinavian bonds in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e933	Thank you for the debate. It has been interesting to hear articles from all the representatives. I would like to use the opportunity to comment on some of the things that have been said here. To the councillor of Hareide, who was concerned that one couldn't have too many stops on these lines: I'm not completely in agreement. One may have many stops, but one does not need to stop at each stop. If you think that you stop at any other or third-party stop, depending on how often you want it to be, you can actually get high speed between stops. So to the representative Gunnes, who was concerned that one had to find a different financial plan than just the state budget. Then I have to point out that both ticket revenue and, not least, freight revenue, which has been collected by many, are ways of participating in and financing this, but mainly very much of the train development in Norway has been financed by the state budget. One should also think that airports and air transport are largely financed by the tax-free system, and that people buy both candy and alcohol, are involved in financing airports by about 30 billion. kr annually. I have suggested tax-free on trains in the SV's program committee in its time, without weighing the huge enthusiasm, nor in SV, but we can take it another time. So to the representative Myrli, who was stunned by the fact that I used so many different tactics, surely to vary the language: if the representative Myrli is too fast, fast or high-speed, I can call it exactly what the representative wants. Some of what I think was important and a point I might like to draw from Myrlis's posts is that if a person is thinking about building a high-speed standard in the development of new sections in Norway, there is at least a basis for a decision to be made in the future. It's often the case that a moderater or a change of attitude also changes politically afterwards, and I'm going to believe that in a few years' time more parties in Norway are more positive about expanding lightning trains. The representative Place was also involved in this with the funding model. I must remind you that if a mine, a lot of private companies, makes it profitable to drive trains in Norway – as it has been a privatisation, as I would call it, of several routes – it must also be profitable for the state to drive trains, including lynch trains. So I just want to say that I thought the representative Ola Elvestuen had very good points, which I thought raised the debate. The last thing I want to say to the Council of State is that the statement that we have now ordered should have some clear demands, among other things. that a thing is clearly defined, for example: number of stops and frequency of departures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e949	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is important to point out the feasibility study that we now have of Oslo-Stockholm, and the high-speed development we are going to do on different routes. In the first place, Trondheim–Oslo, because we think there is a potential that we should look at. The representative Sakariassen came with a few quotes from the signature, and I believe the representative Jon Gunnes said that when the announcement came in 2012, it was a break. I also have to sign that and that it probably did something about my assessment of the potential. In retrospect, I think that even the investment costs that were made then, perhaps in reality, are even higher, but I agree with those who say that they believe the numbers for the potential are related to passengers, to take air passengers. I hope they didn't misunderstand me either: of course, it's going to matter regionally to the areas where the high-speed train goes through, because one can stop at different stations, maybe not even on every other station, but on every third, and it'll still give a huge growth for the regions that get it. And one of the challenges now is that we have a lot of work to do on the railways. So in the last ten years, we have triple bets, and yet we have big challenges and a big job ahead of us. When it comes to the job we've done connected to intercity in and around the big cities, my main point is that we're forced to finish what we've started on. I can also understand those who know a disappointment that we, in the NTP we have now, have changed the concept we've been talking about for intercity, and that's why it's important to me that we do that. Nor is there any doubt that some of my concerns have been that the 2012 distribution provided some cost-driven elements for the expansion we have had. If we look at some stations we have built, we may have built with a standard that is too good for the purpose we have today. But if, for example, on the long-distance routes, we're thinking about building double tracks on the whole stretch between Hamar and Lillehammer, it can't be because we're just thinking about the traffic between Lillehammer and Oslo. It must be because we see a further element. Otherwise, it will never be right to defend the full development of double tracks, for example. between Hamar and Lillehammer. Optimisation of the route could last for the need between Lillehammer and Oslo, but if we are to think longer, we must also think of a holistic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e960	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e978	As I said, according to their needs estimates, the Central Statistical Office has concluded that there are currently too few lawyers in Norway. This leads, for example, to: for both points and character requirements to shoot in the weather. That you have to have good grades to become a lawyer, I don't see any disadvantage, but when this is a result of too few places of study, I don't think the requirement is realistic in relation to the study. You can, for example: read on the website Rett24 that several of today's lawyers and lawyers doubt that they had entered the law school with today's demands, and that many now take the order to reflect a little around the recruitment of lawyers. Juss is a reading study. Well, it's probably the master's degree that has the most number of pages of reading material, and you can almost miss out on the supplementary syllabus. The list of relevant reading materials is almost exhaustive. And reading doesn't, in the first place, require a classroom. Much of the study can be reviewed on its own. The Ministry of Justice, in its Opinion on the Conversion of Masters in Law at the University of Oslo in 2009, stated that: The resolution of the Privatist system could lead to a large reduction in the number of lawyers, which will primarily affect the public. Further: If there are too few lawyers trained, the consequence may be that more and more candidates will need to be recruited without legal training in positions where legal competence is required. Such a system could, in the long term, weaken the legal certainty of citizens. The societal implications make the privatist system a political issue that universities cannot decide alone, and therefore it is important to raise the study. I am myself a living example that it is possible and sensible to be able to take part of the law study as a private individual. Even I took my master's degree from 2005 to 2010 as a good adult. Actually, I was going to spend a little longer time, but when it was set up for some self-study, I had the opportunity to take the study in normal time. I took the first two departments through the People's University. I studied in Trondheim, and the Folkeuniversitetet had a good cooperation with the legal faculty in Tromsø. At the end of the second section, I got a right to study at the University of Tromsø, which enabled me to take the fourth and fifth departments of the University of Oslo, which was my wish. It was simply because the study in Oslo had different subjects and more elective subjects than in Tromsø. But this possibility and the privatist system have now been abolished. In addition, we know that there is now a bachelor's degree in law, and there are some actors who offer it, but this bachelor's degree does not give the right to complete the degree master's degree in law. This creates problems for many, because the admission requirement for masters in law is very high, and this bachelor degree in theory has no meaning. One may not be automatically added to masters. On the basis of this, I have the following first questions to the Council of State: Will the Council of State take the initiative to allow more than three current universities to offer Masters in Law Science, and will he take the initiative to reintroduce the Privatist Scheme for Justudents?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1008	I fully agree with the representative Hanne Dyveke Søttar that there is a documented need to train more lawyers in Norway. This is why the government has recently proposed opening up several institutions to offer master’s education in the field of justice. In the main message on governance of state universities and colleges, to be addressed in the United Kingdom on 18 May, the government proposes that universities and colleges which receive accredited study offerings for the specific degree of professional competence in the future will be granted the right to award this degree. Such an accreditation process involves a comprehensive external quality assessment of the expert committee, including requirements for the study offer and the professional environment, and an assessment of whether the studies are in line with the existing legislation, such as the study quality regulation and the National Qualifications Framework. Furthermore, the government will assess the need for common final competence for lawyers in dialogue with the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the universities and colleges concerned if the Stortinget agrees with the government's proposal to dissolve the grade regulation. With regard to the question of the privatist scheme, it is true that candidates did not previously need to be admitted to the Master's degree in law but were able to take the examination without admission and then receive a diploma and obtain the degree after passed examinations. Formally, it is still possible for students to take examinations at an institution as a private individual without having been admitted to the study. However, following a legislative amendment in 2005, in the context of the quality reform, notification to the examination may be refused if the candidate has not followed mandatory education or has carried out mandatory practice. It's the governments of each institution that decide this. Thus, the reason why private individuals cannot take the exams and obtain the master's degree in law is not that the privatist scheme has been formally abolished, but that even with the introduction of the quality reform, universities and colleges have been allowed to impose mandatory work requirements as a prerequisite for examination. The main objectives of the statutory opportunity to lay down work requirements were to improve the professional follow-up of students and to allow assessment methods other than traditional school examinations. I believe that the government's announced opening for several universities and colleges to offer law masters is the most important thing we can do to train more lawyers, while ensuring high quality of the study offerings. At the same time, I see that there may be good reasons to have greater flexibility than today without going at the expense of the quality and follow-up of students on regular offers. I am therefore positive to look at the possibilities for a little bit more flexibility in this area in the future. I would also like to remind you that, at the same time as the management message, which also opens up the possibility for more institutions to offer this study, we are working on a strategy for not only decentralised but also more flexible education. It also provides an opportunity for several institutions to offer this level of quality assurance, but also to do so in different ways. So one thing is the discussion about exactly the privatist system, but it can also be opened now so that more institutions can offer these degrees with more flexibility than what is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1023	Well, I'm looking forward to the treatment we're going to have in the spring, but I think you have to make a little distinction between what's the private system itself and what's going on, for example. the Progress Party has now made a proposal to amend the Grading Regulation in such a way that more than one study site can provide training. But here it's also talking about going back a little bit to the scheme we had before, which I referred to in the previous article, with more flexibility in the solution, that you, for example. can use the Folkeuniversitetet, as was done in Trondheim. It has always been that although we were privateists, we had both mandatory tests and work requirements, and we had to, among other things. participate in the Ethics Course of the Association, as it is called so fine. So even if you're a privateist, you don't get away from what's mandatory. I am pleased that we are going to deal with the management message, but I hope the Council of State will also take the time to get involved in the proposal the Progress Party has promoted. The idea is that you have to get more decoration in the degree code itself, and that you also look at the possibility of getting the education more decentralised, so that you don't have to connect to a university in a city, but that you, for example, have to. – as we have now learned in these corona times – can do a lot online. I look forward to the treatments we are going to have, and I look forward to having a system to satisfy the legal needs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1032	Let me start by saying that if I'm going to be able to count to 85, I guess the Progress Party really just needs to support the proposal that we've made. So then, well, as I understand the representative, the majority of that proposal. And that's positive, I mean, just because it'll open up for more institutions to think new. After working on this, I have to say that one thing is to increase capacity, but if only the capacity was the most important thing, we would only have allocated far more study places to the nine institutions that already have it. It is also about rethinking and identifying other needs of society that can be met. For example, some institutions have: identified that the present-day masters in law are not sufficiently connected to the business part of the jessen, and therefore it is institutions that do not currently have the right to grade that have said that they want to develop such an offer. It's probably so much about developing quality and making sure that we get a more diverse offer in education. Then I will promise to look carefully at the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted in the Committee, and not just that: we are probably going to discuss it and discuss it at some point, and I would like that very much. But I think it's very important to see what we're doing now in the management message, in the context of what we're doing in decentralised and flexible education, which means that you also get a larger opening. We also need a review of the entire funding system to see if the system has incentives that do not give sufficient priority to flexibility or continuing training today. There are a lot of such discussions that we are going to have, and I very much appreciate the fact that the Progress Party is helping to lift those debates, and I promise to follow closely up the proposal that the Progress Party has now promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1041	I'll just say a few short words here, but I think it was an interesting debate to follow. The Centre Party is also involved in the Privatist Scheme and the provision of studies and real opportunities for lifelong learning. It is clear that the government's announced strategy for, among other things, Decentralised higher education and flexible education are becoming interesting, but we hope that it also contains a number of concrete measures. Just the framework conditions for providing these trainings in practice and for students to be able to take up their studies are what can be bending, when – as the Council of State says so clearly – the law is not an obstacle today. In this way, the Education Committee has inter alia: visited the University of Tromsø, which points out that it is difficult to operate smaller places of study, so that we also need to address the framework conditions here. The Council of State points to the possibility that institutions have to think about new things, but I feel that the institutions really want to bring up more students – given that it is simply possible to defend it financially, because they have to have highly qualified people to make sure that education and everything is as it should be. I think that both UiT and e.g. Flexible education Norway would have liked even better stimulation, e.g. economic, but also practical, in the framework conditions of the government. Then we look forward to processing the management message with more, also from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1058	I very much agree with the last post from the Center Party. Many smaller cities and towns in Norway experience that students have to leave to complete a degree, and we know from other fields that students who move away for a long time are less likely to move home. The representative from the Central Party also talked about what the different universities want, and I know, among other things. that the North University of Bodø is one of those who now want to get legal science. The management message is one thing, because we also have the new law on higher education. We are now trying desperately to look through NOU 2020: 3, which is on quite a few hundred pages, and it says that the principle of the right to go to the private exam has been considered so important that it has been proposed to be maintained. It is therefore necessary to ensure that private-sector law is respected by universities which offer law masters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1065	It is quite right, as the representative Knutsdatter Strand also said, that there is a desire in many places to offer even more places of study on this, and it is a desire of several institutions to offer them for the first time. But it's important to remember how we're financing this today. It is fully possible for an institution that currently has the right to grade, to re-prioritize places of study for what you want to offer more. What is important, I think, in the future, is the discussion that so far more parties have and contribute to, and that we are also going to deal with in this governance message, namely how we can ensure both a governance that gives autonomy and freedom to the institutions, but also that they should address some of the challenges facing society. When we see a major shortage within a profession and educational capacity does not increase, it may indicate that it is right to move these studies out of the degree code and say that they are treated in the same way as other difficult and important studies to offer. That's why I'm glad that the interpellant has lifted this discussion, and I look forward to the further discussion with the Education Committee, because these are discussions that are going to come into our society in the years that are coming, in any case, because education is going to be something more and more going to take advantage of throughout life, a bit of which the representative himself is a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1074	So the debate is on case No. 3 out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1090	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1097	Finally, we are dealing with the language law in plenary. I would like to thank the Committee and the Committee Secretary for their good cooperation with the law, and then I would like to thank everyone who met us at the hearing on 6 June. The former law replaces the public service target use law. The law and notification are widely seen in the language and the Norwegian languages for which the State is responsible. We decide in Section 4 that Norwegian is the main national language of Norway, that book targets and newcomers are equivalent languages that can be used in all parts of society, and that in public bodies there are bookbooks and newcomers. At the same time, we adopt important principles in the purpose paragraph, including: the law shall promote equality between book objectives and new Norwegian and ensure protection of the languages under the responsibility of the State, that public bodies take responsibility for the use, development and strengthening of Norwegian and Book objectives, that public bodies take responsibility for the use, development and strengthening of Sami languages, and that public bodies take responsibility for the protection and promotion of women, romance, romance and Norwegian Sign Language. What's so nice about being a case rapporteur is that you get a good understanding of the whole of the law, how it's supposed to work in practice, and how to balance the interests and duties of the state. In terms of language, all sectors of society have a responsibility. Language is culture, words have power, and opinions regulate participation in public vocabulary. So it's important that we have a law to manage some of the most important things we have, and that's our language. The Communication part of the Language Act refers to the challenges and important changes facing our society but also affects language and language policy. Technology requires language data to be made available to commercial users. It is a good measure to ensure Norwegian consumers and Norwegian language in voice technology. We get a minor loss of domain to English as a result of this and similar measures. We still experience the loss of domain to English in society. Therefore, Norwegian training for immigrants is so important. In higher education too, we see a lot of English, and this affects the development of Norwegian professional languages. It proposes measures to be followed by other relevant legislation, such as the Law on Higher Education. I thought I would draw up one action that is addressed in this proposition, and it is that the universities should be able to demand that candidates who deliver masters in English be able to write summaries in Norwegian. I believe that this is a good way to force the candidate to formulate the essence of his work using Norwegian concepts and professional languages, which is a strength for our professional language. Digital learning materials are being developed and made available in Norwegian and new Norwegian at the same time. The notification is relevant to education, editor-directed media and minority and indigenous languages and encourages all sectors to engage in what is relevant to their areas. I wish everyone the best of luck in using the new law and working together for the Norwegian languages in Norway. I'm dealing with the suggestions that the right hand side is a part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1118	The representative Marianne Haukland has drawn up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1123	Today we have the joy of treating something as historic as a language law, an extended language law. But what was supposed to be a big day for the Norwegian language, is a day of mixed emotions, I can mildly say. We are adopting today a law that has as its purpose the purpose of strengthening the Norwegian language in all parts of society, and which also explicitly states that the public has a special task to provide for this. Nevertheless, the law we are about to adopt today does not achieve its own purpose, when the law in several areas actually contributes to weakening the Norwegian language and in other areas does not go far enough to actually ensure the Norwegian language against unlucky influence – paradoxically, something like a law that does not achieve its own formulated purpose. The working party is sad that the government is weakening its position today. The government has weakened the requirement for the state’s new skills and weakened the ability of organisations to complain on behalf of individuals, such as the police. when the measurement complaint is made on behalf of students and students who are not given tasks in their own language. The government will not quantify the requirements for exchange between bookkeeping and new Norwegian in language-neutral counties, as has been done for language-neutral regional government bodies such as Nav and Vegvesen, e.g. With that result, we can actually end up with people seeing zero new Norse in public communication, for example. in the new Viken region, despite the fact that thousands of new entrants live in municipalities such as Ål, Hemsedal and Gol. It's not without reason an overall target movement is critical to the new law. The Labour Party is on their side, and we propose a number of points in today's debate to strengthen the position of the newnorm. In addition, we are critical that the law does not go far enough to take care of the Norwegian language, secure clear language, ensure the Norwegian language against English influence that is spreading. We would have wanted a stronger language board with increased influence. We would have liked to see clearer measures to develop more and more the use of English professional languages and terminology in public as well. An example of another case The Labour Party is concerned about, and of which we want less, is the use of public money on new, unclear and English-speaking names of known, dear businesses. Here we can mention in fleng: View, Mesta, etc. We also have proposals that would ensure us better against this kind of future. We are happy in the Norwegian language. It's a small language area, and our language is under pressure from many sides. An active language policy must therefore protect and preserve the Norwegian language, as well as the new Norwegian language, which is threatened from many sides. I am disappointed and I think it is serious that today we adopt a language law that weakens language policy and weakens the position of the new one. I will also address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1136	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1141	Language is in many ways our gateway to the world around us, to those we talk to and associate with. Language is very much for people. It's culture, it's tradition, it's identity, it's pride and emotion -- for many of us it's almost our DNA. Language is also still being developed. The language law contains a lot of different aspects of how we use the language, and that's very good in the law. I want to focus on the alternative proposals that the Progress Party has, and where we have different views than the majority in this Chamber. One is the type of target that individual should be able to use when, for example: works in the public sector. If we are serious about the equality of both objectives, we believe in the Progress Party that the individual, even when employed in a public body, must be able to use the target form that one prefers and that one uses in one's everyday life. We therefore propose that it should be up to the individual what kind of target form you use when working in the public sector and writing on behalf of the public sector. Another issue that we have addressed is the increasing expenditure of the state to cover interpreting services. These costs have increased from approx. 450 million. DKK to over 840 million. kr over a period of seven to eight years. We believe that this is alarming, and we believe that we need to look at how these costs can go down. We believe that those who have been in Norway for more than five years, or have Norwegian citizenship, should be expected to be in control of Norway and should therefore not be entitled to free interpretation services from taxpayers. Another proposal that we have promoted, and which the Progress Party has always been concerned with, is freedom of choice in school and optional side goals in school. We believe that the students themselves must be allowed to choose whether they want to have training in side goals, or whether they want to focus on other subjects that they think are useful for their schooling and their further career. We are therefore promoting proposals on optional side-by-side targets. I must admit that I am a little disappointed that the Right does not support us in this matter, all the time both the Right and the Young Right have been with us in many school debates and promised this to young people throughout the country. The progress party is therefore going to vote against part of the law paragraphs as they stand in the setting, in order to take care of the positions I have now explained. I would also like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1156	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has drawn up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1161	The centre party welcomes this law. Norway today has its own language law, which confirms that Norway is the main language of Norway, the social language and the administrative language of all sectors. We also believe that a general language law is an important step in defining the status and role of languages other than Norwegian in a comprehensive language policy, and it is good that the law should now also contribute to the protection and promotion of Sami languages, minority languages – women, romance, romance – and Norwegian sign language. I am pleased with the positive reception that the proposal on Norwegian sign language as a cultural expression and that language expression has been given as equivalent to Norwegian. My very first political post ever held me as a high school student to defend the fact that my high school, Rygi, at Notodden, was still going to have a nine Norse as my main goal. I argued both with how useful it would have been to me, how beautiful new Norse is, and not least how important newnorse is to maintain. My fight for the new Norway has not waned over the years. That is why, in line with my party, I believe that, unfortunately, the bill is not good enough to strengthen the nostrils. For the Central Party, it is important to cultivate and further develop both of our Scripture traditions. In fact, the status and position of the new Norwegian language are still being challenged. It is therefore essential that instruments contribute to raising the neo-Norwegian font culture and its position. The Government proposes amendments to the current Objectives Act § 4, which concerns requirements for Norwegian-language writing competence. The proposal of the government in new Section 16 actually implies a weakening of this obligation. The Centre Party proposes to continue current practice, which means that employees of state bodies are required to write bookkeeping and new Norwegian according to the rules applicable at all times to target use in the service. The counties may also require the same. It is otherwise positive that the tasks of the Language Council are legalised, but if we are to ensure that the intentions of the law are respected, sanctions are appropriate. This was pointed out by the Hearing Officers at both the Government and the Committee hearings. The centre party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, promotes proposals where we ask the government to look at the sanctions options to be applied in the event of a breach of the language law. We also support the proposals that improve the supervisory authority of the Language Council. Otherwise, we are happy that county councils are now given extended obligations that will ensure that newcomers will see more of their language. But on the question of whether it is wise to introduce a quantification requirement in the exchange between the writing languages of the language-neutral counties, we believe that it is important to balance it against the self-determination of the county councils, which, in fact, the centre party is always committed to strengthening, and is therefore not in favour of it. Today's adjustment document is unfortunately a little shaky and unpresist in terms of the central party's policy. This is due to data difficulties during the delivery meeting, as Stortinget had received new security measures and I did not enter the delivery document or by e-mail with an overview of what proposals and comments we were going to enter. It is therefore important for me now to make it clear that the Central Party supports the proposals No. 6, 9, 10 and 11, and we are going to support proposal No. 7 subsidiary – all from the Workers' Party and SV. And then I'm going to deal with what the Central Party proposal is all alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1180	The representative of Åslaug-Sem Jacobsen has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1185	Our language carries both culture, identity and history. That is why it is very gratifying that we are adopting a language law today. Norway is like a small language area entirely dependent on offensive language policies to preserve and develop our language. Without an active language policy, I am afraid that the use of our language, both forms of goals, and not least the dialectic diversity, will be harmful in meeting with the English. We see that the use of our language is pressed, and SV and the opposition point to this in the setting. The English is spreading, and the wild and meaningless names that are coming out of our language are seeing more and more examples – Oslomet, Equinor, yes, there are many examples of that. Therefore, it is disappointing that the government does not take the necessary steps with this language law to do something about it. This is why SV proposes inter alia: giving the Language Council a stronger role. But even more important is the diversity of languages and the wealth of dialects we have in our country. It's one of the most beautiful things we have. That is why the target policy of the Language Act is so important. We need to facilitate and defend the use of both target forms. I've got my eyes up on it personally since I joined the Goal Team and learned about the Eastfold dialect and the history of the news. Nynorsk is a linguistic release project. The fact that we have a written language that is as close as possible to the way people talk – or ‘precious’ as we say to me – is important. Unfortunately, Norway has a long history of stretching down on people's dialects. The Elite's speech has been approved, the rest is to be avoided. That's why I've become a nynophobic defender myself, even though I'm from the central east, to say it like that, because it's also about my dialect. Unfortunately, this language law also waters out some of the most important instruments here — a weakening of the requirement to write on both target forms, the requirement for exchange on nynostic and book targets and the requirement for both target forms, to mention something. Therefore, along with the red-green opposition, SV proposes several concrete proposals to do something about this. Then there's a concrete thing I'd like to mention in the end, and that's symbol language. Some of us use symbols to communicate, like ASK. I'd like to pay a big tribute to the Lionmothers in particular to bring this into the debate of the Language Law. SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party suggest that the Stortinget should ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on symbolic languages where it is suggested how the right to sign language can be incorporated into the law. The Progress Party has made a similar proposal, and I urge the Progress Party to support our proposal subsidiaryly, because it is more binding, so that the bulk of the population is expressed here and gives the users of symbolic languages the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1201	The size shall adopt a new language law. Twelve years have passed since the last language message. Several governments have come and gone without any information. We are now proud and happy that the Left in Government promotes a historically important language law. The left is particularly pleased that the law has the principle of strengthening Norwegian languages and all the languages we are responsible for. It is particularly important that government and regional bodies are given special responsibility for using, developing and strengthening Norwegian languages. The language law states that Norway is multilingual. For the Left, it is very important that this law fences around Sami language and culture. Similarly, the law will promote and develop national minority languages and Norwegian sign language. We are proud to support a law that promises sign language, minority language and alternative and supplementary communication, ASK. In particular, I have a close relationship with sign language. My wife is a sign language interpreter, and I have a large circle of acquaintances in the deaf environment. I am happy to attend tonight, when I am sure to have a Team meeting with several of them. There is every reason to celebrate that the language law that is being presented seems to be tossing off the equalizing decision of 12 May 1885, which equated neo-Norwegian with book goals. For the Left, it is central that the language law creates a much more stable foundation to ensure new-nosedness than has so far been laid down in the target law. The most important thing is that neo-Norwegian becomes part of the basic protection of Norwegian language. In addition, the language law provides a special protection for new Norwegian. The objective paragraph of the Language Act states that new Norwegian should be protected in particular. The fact that the regions and the counties are now also subject to requirements for the use of new Norwegian is timely and necessary. This is a strengthening of the situation of newnorms. The left is confident that the clear mandate and authority of the Language Council to follow up and supervise under the law could give Norwegian language usage a boost. It is good that the law is ready for this. The left is also pleased with the comments made by the committee, which clarify the opening of future sanctions for breaches of the law and reporting to the Storting. The Left supports the Language Act and the Communication and is confident that it provides a good foundation for the further development of languages in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1214	Language is the basis for thought and interaction, it is an important part of cultural heritage, and it is a prerequisite for participation in democracy. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased that the language law creates a much more solid foundation to ensure new Norseness than has so far been possible in the target law. The most important thing is that neo-Norwegian becomes part of the completely primitive introduction of protection for Norwegian languages. For the first time it is also legal that Norwegian language is the main language in Norway and that it should be ensured as a social carrier. A similar protection has only been in Sami possession here in the country until now. In addition, the Language Act adds an exclusive minority of reasons to newcomers who have not been formulated before. All sectors now have a particular responsibility to promote new Norse when engaged in policy development, so the language law will guide how other legislation corrects its instruments in the language field. The proposal for a language law deals with all the languages for which Norway is responsible, and the Christian People's Party will in particular stress that Norwegian sign language is now being legalised and recognised as a full language. It is a large and long-lasting light point for all sign language users. It is also good that Sami languages are given the status of indigenous language in Norway, and that women’s, romance and romance are given the status of national minority languages. The biggest threat to Norwegian languages today is English, and I am therefore pleased that the purpose of the law is to strengthen Norwegian language and to ensure that public bodies take responsibility for the use, development and strengthening of Norwegian language. They shall also use, develop and strengthen Sami languages, as set out in the Law of Cooperation. In addition, public bodies shall protect and promote national minority languages and Norwegian sign language. It is also very positive that the use of at least 25 pst by regional government bodies is now being quotad. Nynorsk. There has been a strong interest in the inclusion of alternative and complementary communication, ASK, as a language of its own in the Language Act. We believe it is more useful to point out that the chapter on language and technology refers to many areas and projects that are very central to this user group. We believe it is natural for the state to make available its language resources, such as the Language Bank, in order to develop new language services and products aimed at this user group. It is important that the points on the ASK in the Training Act are continued in a new proposal for the Training Act. The Christian People's Party therefore wants a new training law to assess the right to additional training hours in the ASK. This law has many important elements that could have been drawn forward, but the bottom line is that the Christian People's Party is very happy that the Storting is now adopting a language law that promises the new Norway, and that recognises sign language as a full language.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1235	Today is a brand day in Norwegian history. Today, we adopt a general language law, a law covering all the languages for which Norway has a responsibility. We've never had that before. The law shall protect Norwegian languages as our main expression of culture, history and identity and contribute to ensuring Sami languages, national minority languages and Norwegian sign language good living conditions. The Language Act brings several fundamental innovations in Norwegian language policy. The most important new thing is that the law provides protection for Norwegian languages. For the first time, the law states that Norwegian languages need protection and that it should be ensured in use in all sectors. The Language Act provides a stronger instrument than ever before to ensure language policy coordination and direction for the benefit of Norwegian languages. Norwegian shall be ensured as a national main language. However, Norwegian languages shall not be strengthened in such a way as to override Sami languages, women’s, romance, romance or Norwegian sign language. The language law is a formalisation of the multilingual nature of the country and the state is responsible for several languages. Those languages shall be protected and promoted. The protection of Norwegian applies both to bookkeeping and to new Norwegian. At the same time, the law clearly states that neural snoring should be ensured in particular, as it is under particular pressure. For this reason, the law obliges the public to promote neo-normous when developing policies relevant to Norwegian languages. The Ninorian Cultural Centre sees this change of pace. They recently pointed out that the children’s and young people’s messages address the issue of how children who use new drugs do not have the same conditions for meeting their language, nor in cultural policy schemes. In this area, the Language Act contains an instrument that the target law has not had. The language law imposes an obligation on all county councils to use neo-Norwegian for neo-Norwegian municipalities and for single addressees using neo-Norwegian. Both state and county authorities will have an obligation to build up and maintain the necessary new Norwegian competence to comply with the legislation. This is new, and it is an extension of the legislation in the target law. No law works without it being followed up. We therefore legislate a clear mandate for the Language Council as a language management body. They are given a broad mandate to both oversee, guide in legislation, advise on the names of government agencies and norms of book goals and novels on behalf of all of us. The bodies themselves are responsible for following the law and getting involved in it. I also want to congratulate Norwegian sign language users on the day. Although language science has shown for a while that Norwegian sign language is a language of its own, not a special pedagogical tool, it is being formalised today. The Norwegian Sign Language Act states that Norwegian Sign Language is equivalent to Norwegian, both as an expression of culture and as a language system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1257	I quote: ‘Since the Equation Decision in 1885, the Left has stood on the side of the new Norway. We have a lot of tolerable attacks from both the left and right sides, but we still have a lot of language and freedom. To the fall we go back to choices to strengthen the newnorse's position in society. [[...]] [[...]] a voice to the Left [is] a voice for the newnorse. [[...]] [[...]] The right will remove the right to communicate with the State in its own form. The left will protect it. This was written by the parliamentary leader of the Left in a letter in the 2013 election campaign. So what happened? Well, the Minister of Culture of the Left has presented a language law that weakens, not strengthens, the position of the new snort. A total target movement slaughters the law. The right-hand side has a certain impact, because the left-hand side is weakening today the right of people to communicate with the state in their own way. How does the Council of State really feel about the Left's plan to strengthen the new-neighbourhood of society – through its government participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1271	We are very pleased with the language law. I do not recognize myself in the description given by the representative. The centre of culture has been positive for what has been presented. I'm noticing that Peder Praises Hauge, leader of Norway's Goal Team, wrote on Facebook yesterday that the law will provide a special protection for the new one. ‘It promises good for the language policy of the years to come,’ he writes. We clearly establish in Section 4 of the Language Act that bookkeeping and new Norwegian are equivalent languages, which are to be used in all parts of society. This is completely in line with what the Left wants, has said and looks ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1278	It's nice with nice goals, but if you follow up on weakening concrete law paragraphs that in purely practical implementation make the new witch get a worse position, it doesn't help. It weakens the position of the new-surgery in this law by the fact that you no longer have to write skills in the state, and by the fact that county councils cannot respond in people’s chosen languages. This means that people in new Norse municipalities, for example. in the Viken region, will be able to see less of its own language from the public. It's a weakening of the new nostrils. The target movement is disappointed and points to this. So is it that the target movement is wrong and has misunderstood? What is the concrete opinion of the Council of State that strengthens the position of the newly-nosed person in this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1285	I am a little surprised that the representative says that it is fine with fine targets. We make promises because you actually want to achieve something, and then I think you have to go to the purpose section. I have studied law and am a lawyer, so I would like to draw the representative's attention to Section 1, which states that the purpose of the law is to strengthen Norwegian language so that it is ensured as a social language. And: The law shall promote equality between bookkeeping and new Norwegian and ensure the protection and status of the languages for which the State is responsible. As far as the representative is concerned about writing requirements, it is established. The State body shall be able to require staff to write both bookkeeping and new Norwegian, and the State body shall ensure that they have the necessary writing skills. We also extend this right, because that duty did not have the county councils. Now the county councils also have this duty, so it is clear that this is a strengthening of the new Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1292	It shall not be on the exposure. My commitment to this matter applies to 7,500 children who today speak using symbols. Of course, if you bring everyone over 18 years of age, there are a lot more people – that's for all the relatives, family, friends, schoolmates, etc. These people are currently using ASK, or symbol language, as we've also mentioned it as. The Progress Party finds it difficult to understand that symbolic languages are not referred to more widely by the Ministry of Culture than is done. So my question is, since I have received an urgent call from SV to support their proposal subsidiaryly: What are the plans of the Council of State to improve these children's right to language?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1299	There is no doubt that the ASK is an important form of communication to support or replace the speech, and persons in need of the ASK should be guaranteed the opportunity to communicate and participate in language with family, friends and the community. The Language Act covers only conventional languages and the ASK is not a linguistic language and is not covered by the Language Act. So it is important to say that in a NOU on new training law, which is currently being followed up by the Ministry of Knowledge, the following is to read: ‘Training of persons in need of ASK is a complex and relatively new subject, where the need for awareness and information can be great.’ The Education Directorate has developed its own counsellor on ASK at school, which includes: Pedagogics and physical organisation of ASK-needed students are discussed. State Special Educational Service, Statped, has ASK as its specific responsibility and contributes in various ways to identifying and developing actions for students who need ASK. So the right to special education is regulated by the Training Act and will also be followed up by the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1311	Thank you for that. I'm still not completely reassured when it's actually that it can be perceived as highly discriminatory by thousands of people in Norway. Today, together with the Center Party, we encourage the Ministry of Culture to have a special focus on this, and I hope that I can trust that the Council of State will have it. However, when you can't speak with your mouth or your hands, you need a strengthening of this symbol language, and I feel that the Council of State does not respond properly. Of course, I am disappointed that several of the parties today do not support the proposals of the Progress Party, as I think it is the best thing to do when it is simply about how to include more better in society. But if the Council of State wants to have a chance to convince the Progress Party that it is not right to support the second proposal subsidiaryly, he will have one more attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1321	I share the representative's commitment. And so does the government. Of course we're busy with this too. This must then be followed up by the sectoral departments responsible for this. The reason why the ASK does not have the characteristics of natural language is that it does not transfer between generations and that it does not have dialect differences, a specialised vocabulary and a rule-based grammar. Thus, in linguistic terms, the ASK is not a language, and therefore it is not covered by the Language Act. But that does not mean that the government does not follow up on this, and does not intend to follow up on this. This shall be done, inter alia: also in the Ministry of Knowledge, because I fully agree with the representative that we need to ensure that all children and young people in Norway, and insofar as adults, have the tools needed to communicate with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1330	The last two replicates are left with one line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1335	The Minister responds to criticism from the Workers' Party that this law is not good enough in the case of neo-Norwegian, that the Nynorsk Cultural Centre and the Goal are satisfied with it. Yes, they are satisfied with parts of it, but I have had a lot of contact with them lately, and they have also pointed out in writing that this could be much, much better. Traditionally, the Left, as represented by the Council of State, and the Center Party have been united in the fight for new Norse. That's why it's very interesting for me to know if our Minister from the Left believes that the bill we're presenting today is the very best thing we can do to strengthen the position of the news in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1342	The law that will hopefully be passed today – I hope that the Stortinge adopts the historical language law – I believe it strengthens the position of the new Norway. Here we explicitly say clearly that book measures and new Norwegian are equivalent languages. We say that both the state agencies and the county councils must ensure that we have the necessary writing skills, and we also state in the purpose section that we should promote equality between bookkeeping and new Norwegian. Not only should we ensure the protection and status of this, we should also use, develop and strengthen book goals and new Norwegian in an equal way. It's the purpose of the law, it's the paragraphs of the law, and I think this is a good direction for the diversity of languages that we're going to have in Norway in the future. Then I have to promise that it is not just a nine-norse/bokmal problem addressed here. Sami languages are established to be the indigenous language, and we also refer to national minority languages, including Norwegian sign language.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1349	When we listen to the line change here, I'm thinking about whether we should also include new speakers as part of this language law, because here it's very strange to hear from the Council of State. Existing legislation states that the government body ‘must require’ staff to write on both target forms. The government’s draft law today states that the government body “should be able to require” staff to write on both objectives. That is why I have to ask the Council of State, which is a former lawyer, since he himself mentioned it: if there is not a weakening of a concrete instrument in this law, what is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1354	In principle, I believe that an employee under the State Employees Act should have been able to earn a salary for a breach of the target law. As far as I am aware – I will not say anything wrong in Stortinget – it has never been practiced. I am uncertain whether this has ever happened at all. According to the language law, state employees now have a clear requirement to use both book goals and new Norwegian. It shall do so, it shall do so, and it shall also do so by the county. So I would say that the individual service obligation is out of date and has had no practical significance. It is in practice also the body that bears responsibility today. Very many, such as: have worked in a state body, know how it has worked in practice up to today, and how it will continue to be practised in the future. The important thing is that both the state bodies and the county councils should ensure that they have that competence and that they should still be able to require employees to write both bookkeeping and new Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1361	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1366	One of the main objectives of the language policy is to ensure Norwegian as the main language in Norway, as a result of which several have been involved. Proposition addresses areas that are strategically important for Norwegian to remain a fully-fledged and societal language in the future. This includes, inter alia: public responsibility for ensuring a Norwegian-language cultural and media offer, the value of good Norwegian training and the development of Norwegian professional language. A good example of everything related to everything is Meldning. St. 17 for 2018–2019, Lack and arm's length distance – Media policy for a new time. There we established that the news media have a social value in addition to their commercial value, and the value of society is linked to the formation of democratic opinion, the control of the exercise of power and the importance of language, culture and identity. I am pleased that the government has a good and clear description of the linguistic dimension of media policy also in this proposition. This side of media policy has traditionally received little attention, but in recent years we have seen a change where the media's role in language and both forms of target have gained a more conscious place. There is the pressure from more and more foreign actors who have contributed to raising this awareness for many of us. In that context, I would also like to strike a blow at the important place of the editor-in-chief media, both for language and for democracy. A good language policy must therefore also consider how to ensure the future financing of these media and how to regulate the major international, global actors. Common languages contribute to building strong and inclusive communities. In the pandemic situation we are in now, several have become extra aware of the importance of a good and clear Norwegian language for trust and information flow. A good language policy must hit us all. I want to highlight in particular the importance of the growing generation, which is going to take our language further. Then games and movies become very important arenas. Computer game strategy 2020–2022 shows that the computer game field is an area where Norwegian languages are particularly challenged. Therefore, it is right for the government to provide grants for the development of computer games to help us gain more access to games in Norwegian. I have tried to involve some other dimensions in the debate on the language law to show that under – call it like – the polarisation between book goals and newcomers, we find a lot of good, correct and important policies in this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1379	This is a historic day for this hall. It's a historic day in many ways. It's a historic day because we're now adopting a holistic language law for the first time in this room – a language law that says for the first time that my language, new Norwegian, actually needs more than just equality. Not because it is a language that cannot manage itself, or because it is a language that has a broken back, because it does not. With about half a million users, the newnorse is not a true language. There's no way in the category of smaller languages that can disappear. No, with this decision, Norway is following all other countries with less used languages policies and, in fact, acknowledges that the smaller languages need to be developed and protected actively because the weight of the majority is so much heavier. When the objective paragraph clearly states that public bodies have a special responsibility to promote newnorm as the least widely used language, it adds to a much more offensive newnorm policy than we have today. This means that it should actually be as easy to be a new drug user as a book destination user in the public sector, and that public bodies should also make sure that the newcomers look around them in public writing and on public websites. Digitalisation and technologists are one of several major challenges, but also opportunities for Norwegian languages. I am therefore pleased that both the review and otherwise have included expectations and demands for public policy to be such that both bookkeeping and new Norwegian should have equal treatment in the public sector – including in this area. I also see that the management of the training law will come later, and I have great expectations that the forward-looking hold that we have in this new language law will also show again in that management. It is also worth noting that Sami, female, sign language and others are a special protection in the new language law. Language is also about identity. Here the Storting shows that they take this responsibility seriously, also for our smaller languages in Norway. I thought we should go further in some of the requirements we make in this language law. This has not been fully realised, but I am nevertheless pleased that the majority will evaluate the promises made in 2030 and see if there is a need for the imposition of sanctions for breaches of the purpose paragraph. I hope it won't be necessary, but it might be. Congratulations on introducing a new language code!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1398	I just want to inform you that the Progress Party will support subsidiaryly some of the legal clauses that we are actually opposed to, in order to prevent further proposals from being adopted. I will submit it in writing so that the President is aware of what proposals are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1403	The purpose of the law is important, because I think you have to see the law in the context of the purpose. That's what we learn from the kiss when we start at the first year. Then you start to study law. In the first year of the jessen, you learn that you have to go for the purpose. What is the purpose of the law? It's the purpose of the law that defines the rest of the law, and you have to understand the law in line with the purpose. When we make a law, you don't have to germinate and say that it's nice to make laws, as the workers' party representative said. We make laws because the laws actually matter. In Norway, when laws are made, laws are followed. They are being followed, and they are also being followed up by an instrument. We have said that we should report to the Stortingen on the language so that good debates will also be held here in the Chamber. It is clear that you should not germinate from a law, but at least you should not read the law in accordance with the purpose of the law. The purpose of the law is entirely universal. It is strengthening Norwegian languages and ensuring that public bodies take responsibility for both the use, development and strengthening of Norwegian languages — using, developing and strengthening — including Sami languages, as demonstrated by the Law of Cooperation. In addition, public bodies shall both protect and promote national minority languages and Norwegian sign language. Responsibility for the use of Norwegian language includes a specific responsibility for the promotion of neo-Norwegian. Nynorsk is subject to a specific minority protection. The government has proposed, by law, to include the county councils in the rules of duty that the target law currently only applies to the state bodies. It's an extension. That's good. Then there's another thing in the law. Now we've been discussing neuron, but I think we need to spend a few seconds promising that Sami languages, with the decision that the Stortinget is going to make today, get status as indigenous language in Norway. This is the first time. Women's, romance and romance are given the status of national minority languages. So it's not at least a very good day for Norwegian sign language, but I think I'll also spend a few seconds saying that we are legislating the right to use Swedish and Danish in writing to Norwegian government powers. We reserve the right to reply in Norwegian, of course, but they will be able to write to us, to the authorities, in their Swedish or Danish language.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1415	It's a little strange to hear a councillor teach the story of what a law is – to this hall. These 169 representatives who adopt the laws of Norway have been doing so for quite many years and have considerable competence in it. Of course, a purpose paragraph expresses the overall objective of a law, such as: equality law, which states that the purpose of the law is to ‘encourage equality and prevent discrimination on grounds of sex, pregnancy, maternity or adoption leave’, etc. However, it is the specific paragraphs that ensure that this objective is put into practice, and that is where the political debate goes – on how far the law should regulate, ensure, impose sanctions and systems that ensure that the objective is achieved. It is not possible to hide behind an ideal claim in a purpose paragraph if there is real disagreement as to the means to be used. It's a long race that's now in the finish line. It's a good thing it's a language law. It was the Stoltenberg government as in 2008 – in St.meld. No 35 for 2007-2008, Objectives and meaning, A holistic Norwegian language policy – proposed a law. It's taken three major periods to get this in place. I'm glad it's here. There is much agreement about, but there are some disagreements, which also the Trettebergstuen was inside from our side, where we believe that the law is too weak, among other things. in order to ensure the position of new Norwegians in Norway. It is quite correct, as was said here, that neither book language nor neo-Norwegian languages are threatened – internationally it is quite a target form – but we can still see that there is a risk of loss of domain where you have quite a lot of areas, especially in research and education, where you do not have fully Norwegian language. It's an important goal. But another important objective that we have addressed is to be proud of the Norwegian language even when the names of different companies or businesses are defined. This should be particularly important in the public sphere. We can't control private companies in detail, but we can avoid foreign names of state businesses. Vy, Equinor and OsloMet – perhaps the worst example – are areas where we can go in and have a meaning. We suggest in our remarks that the Language Council should have a much stronger position by being consulted by confirming such names. I wish the Council of State could say here in Stortinget that this is a matter he will follow up and agree that we are sure – just like for example. Iceland makes — proud Norwegian names of the establishments we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1426	I guess I didn't think I should say this from the pulpit, but I'm glad that Raja is Minister of Culture, because he definitely shouldn't be reading in law. But there are several of us who have read juss, and what the Minister of Culture is saying from this pulpit, in that case will be misguided. It is nice to have a blind belief in a purpose paragraph, but it is also as the representative Giske said: it is the practical paragraphs of the legal text that deal with the practical consequence of whether or not the newnorse strengthens its position. It is clear that the specific legal paragraphs weaken the requirement of state writing competence, from «shall» to «breeds». It's a weakening. You weaken the legal remedies, and you don't tell the counties to switch between bookcases and newcomers – you say they should be able to. It is also a weakening for many of those who today live in new Norse communes. In addition, we have been able to produce a law that is without sanctions. That means that here everyone can really do what they want, because it won't have any consequences to break the law. The Labour Party has also proposed to look at: a sanction regime for the whole of the law. But if you're going to believe the Minister of Culture, the whole movement of goals and everyone who's concerned about the position of new-snoring is wrong when they say that this is a weakening. But not only that: the Council of State says that maybe you shouldn't take these paragraphs seriously, because even if you weaken the position of the newskirt in four specific legal paragraphs, you just have to ignore it, because the goal paragraph says that the position of the newskirt needs to be strengthened. This becomes very confusing to me. It's definitely not good news, and it's just nonsense. The truth is, the Left has left its place as a party that fights for the news. Here, a language law has been put forward that, in the specific paragraphs, weakens the ability of people to see their language, neo-normous, in communication with the public. You can't complain if you don't get it, and you also do that that people in many municipalities will see less of their language. It's a reality, and then I think it would have been great if the Council of State could just say that here he's got a pass for something, but not for everything. But standing and claiming that because of the purpose paragraph, this law is a strengthening of the new Norway, is with respect to notifying customs only. Then I would say that the Central Party announced that they would vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and SV. It doesn't get majority. We then choose to vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 12, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, just to help ensure that the law gets paragraphs dealing with those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1439	Our common cultural heritage and knowledge of him are an essential part of our identity, and he also creates belongings to our society. It is especially important to learn to know the values and traditions that help unite us in our country. In a world with increasing impulses and external influences, it is particularly important to know your own culture. Our language is a provision for participation. Finally, there will be a language law. He is important for us to strengthen Norwegian language. Norwegian language is also a foundation for Norwegian democracy. It is the common language that contributes to building strong and inclusive communities. In order to strengthen Norwegian languages, it is also essential to ensure new Norwegian. The new language law will also strengthen the role and position of new-surgery in society. Language organisations have stated that there are several good elements in this new law, and in particular they have pointed out that strengthening the purpose of the law is very positive. In addition, it has been shown that the law states that the public has a special responsibility to promote the least-used language, i.e. new Norwegian. It is a step in the right direction for a language policy that recognises that there is a skeptical relationship of strength between nynorrhea and bookkeeping. It is also nice to see that the proposition is particularly strong in the areas of language technology and linguistic discipline. A digital public sector has to work equally well in book goals, novel and Sami. The Language Council is the one that will be given the legal mandate to guide the public in how the different languages can be developed and how the legislation is understood. We should, or to put it another way: we should have high expectations that this language law will help to strengthen both the role and not least the position of the new Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1452	The representative Giske says I'm teaching the Storting. First of all, I'm not doing that at all. But I think maybe he should have a conversation with his party colleague, because it's the Tretteberg room that started to talk to me about how nice it was with fine goals, and then someone actually has to take some time to explain what legal purposes actually mean. That's what I took the freedom to do. So there's a lot of mistakes in Tritenberg's posts, which she just kept, so really I recommend the representative to get a little better into the law. But as it may be a little complicated, I recommend sending a written question to the Council of State on what is new in this law compared to before, I will give a thorough introduction to it, because it may be difficult to read the language law. I mean, it's not, but it may be. I can quickly take a few things: see for example. on Section 1, it is new. There is a clarification that the State should keep the language in its claim. Language assurance as a political principle is not previously regulated. The new is, for example, the scope of the law, that county municipalities are now covered by it. The new features include Sami languages, national languages, Norwegian sign language, Scandinavian languages and plain language. The new one is also partly official. The new is also e.g. neutral counties shall switch between bookkeeping and new-synthetic ‘in a reasonable manner’. The county councils have not had such obligations until now. It is also new for the county to strengthen the rights of individuals and municipalities, so that it is passed on to the state body. And, as I was talking about: requirements for writing skills are new to the county council, it hasn't been in force before. Then there is also a mainly new paragraph regarding the right to complain. The target law currently contains more of a right of reference than a genuine right of appeal under administrative law. The complainant can now ask for passports, driving licences, etc. in the correct language. For the Language Council, there is also something new. The Language Council is given legal tasks for the first time. The Language Council shall be given legal responsibility for the supervision of the language law vis-à-vis governmental bodies. The Language Council is responsible for directing all public bodies, and it is also new that the Language Council is to receive information from government bodies, which are needed precisely to supervise the rules. At all: there's news from news in this law, and I think the Workers' Party has spent a little time getting into it. I recommend that you send a written question to the Council of State. So I'm going to do everything I can to explain everything that's new in the law, and I think the Workers' Party will then see this law in a new light.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1465	First of all, I just have to complain to my colleagues that a planned agreement on quick start came in the middle of the debate on the language law, but I can promise that I have followed along and got the debate with me. What we're actually ending up with now is what this law gets of practical importance, if a purpose paragraph has something to say in the Norwegian legal system, and I find it problematic that we here from Stortinget are starting to claim that a purpose paragraph has no claim. Then we're essentially saying that the laws that we stand here and arguments for are to be adopted are not supposed to mean anything when others out there are to read the law and understand what kind of content of this law is meant to be followed. I just want to warn you that there are no arguments we should make on this pulpit, all the time I expect that representatives from both the Labour Party, the Left and the Right agree that the laws adopted from this pulpit should be followed, even if it is a point of use. The objective paragraph of this law is very clear. There are many out there who now celebrate that we get a purpose paragraph that goes out so wide and takes such a great state responsibility for the languages we have in Norway, and then it's negative if we talk down in this room the meaning of it. I just want to warn you about that. That is not a point of view I support, and I really do not think there are many representatives here who support it. So I'd like to say a little bit about the different points of view that have come here in the Chamber, and the reason why the Right and Government parties stand for the position we have. We believe that the right of self-determination of the county councils is high, and that county councils themselves can be allowed to weigh how much nynosic and bookkeeping they are going to write, based on the mixture of language skills and citizens they have, and which they feel is right for their municipality. But it is important that the county councils are also involved and produce what is important with this law, and it is that both book goals and newcomers are to be used in society, and there are especially language-neutral county municipalities being incorporated. Fortunately, the Council of State was before me in the pulpit, and he got to point out a lot of the other things that are new in the law. One thing that I would like to draw out, as Anette Trettebergstien has also mentioned, concerns “should” or “should” about writing skills that are required to work in government agencies. There I believe it is an advantage that the law now transfers the responsibility to the employer, and that it is the employer's duty to ensure that the administrative body, the government body, has the language competence to follow the language policy that they are supposed to follow, and that it should not lie with the individual official, who is then in danger of committing a breach of service if he does not comply with the language law. It also obliges some employers to offer appropriate skills to their employees to perform tasks under the Language Act. All in all, I would like to thank you for a good debate, and with regard to all the proposals that have been promoted, I have now made our views clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1478	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1483	More arrogant'mansplaining' I think I've never heard from this pulpit, than the Minister of Culture just came along. He should read the law better himself. Not least, he should see and read all the consultation replies to the draft law, which has been sent to the Stortinget, which points from an overall movement of objectives and other interested parties to precisely the Workers' Party and the SV in their alternative proposals, that the position of the new-surgery is weakened in practice because some paragraphs weaken the requirements of today. It's a fact. Everyone is pleased that we have now received a language law, we have not had it before, and everyone is therefore pleased that we have a good goal paragraph, but it does not help with a good goal paragraph when the other practically directed paragraphs to ensure that people see their language in written correspondence with the state and that the position of the new witch is kept in claim are weakened. And they are weakened knowingly by this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1490	If not the last post from the Council of State is a lecture to the Storting, then I don't know. I guess the only thing we missed was a catheter and a board. I react very strongly to the fact that we have a government council meeting Stortinget with such an arrogance. To be honest, I almost expected it to be charged by the president. A purpose paragraph is important for any law, but in e.g. However, the Equality and Discrimination Act, which states very well that there should be no discrimination in Norway, provides for a number of specific paragraphs under the purpose paragraph. With regard to the requirements for writing skills, I think the representatives from the Right say from this pulpit, are quite revealing and sound a little different than the representatives from the Left say. For example, the rapporteur himself said in his post that this shifts responsibility to the employer. So instead of having a clear legal paragraph that says that all government bodies should require writing skills, this responsibility is transferred to the employer, the individual state body. Right-wing representative Tage Pettersen has said it this way: ‘But it is not necessary for all those who are to work in public administration to master both objectives’. Yes, cleaner words for the money than you don't get. It is quite obvious that the government itself believes that the new nostrils are weakened in this law. That's at least what the Right says, and they're honest with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1499	I would like to start by saying that there is something a little new that correcting obvious errors is interpreted by some representatives as arrogance. It is also new that explaining how the law is to be understood, for some people to appear arrogant. And that simply telling what the news of the law is, of some being interpreted as arrogant, I really don't understand that. I'm a lawyer, and I understand very well how laws are interpreted when used in the practical life out there. I have also been here in this room as a magnificent representative before I became the Council of State. I understand the Storting well, I understand the promise. I was born in Norway, I went to Norwegian school, I have a law school, and I can only refer to the case-rapporteur Marianne Haukland said. She spoke incredibly wisely about the purpose paragraphs of the law and their meaning, and that, as she said, magnificence representatives should be careful to get hurt in order to speak down the purpose of the law and what the legal purposes have to do with understanding the law in practical life. She's in the middle of something. As I said, it is the basic legal source of the basic subject of the law in the first year of the law that you read the laws along with the purpose of the law. If you read the paragraphs in isolation, you might get hurt to do the wrong interpretation of the law. You have to read the law according to the purpose of the law. You also look at the preprocessors, and in some cases you go in and look at the crash debates. It's the legal basis when you get into the practical life. I want to say that I love the Norwegian language. I think it's quite magical that I can master this language. It might sound very strange, but I love the Norwegian language. I think this is a good day, this is a good day. Now we're going to discuss the content of the language law. We can disagree – it's fine, it's part of democracy – but I think this is a historic day. And I want, even though for a single representative and perhaps someone else seems arrogant, yet I encourage everyone to get involved in the law. Because when it comes to obvious errors from big business representatives, things that don't match, about what's in the law, or about how reality was before, it's actually my job to point out some of those things. I didn't go through much, because there were a lot of mistakes. It's important for me to say that it's important to get involved in the purpose of the law, because the purpose of the law also defines the rest of the law. So I refer to what the case-rapporteur Marianne Haukland said, because she spoke very wisely about the purpose of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1510	I use my right as case rapporteur to draw me again. Whoever jumps into the debate and sees what we're talking about now, I don't think there's much of a language law we're debating in the Stortinge today. It has a little to do with the Workers' Party's claim that this law is a weakening of the new snoring. Then they argue that the paragraphs where we've written that we're going to strengthen the new nostrils do not mean anything in practice. That is what is really the basic argument of the Workers' Party in this case. Therefore, we need to develop arguments that say that what is in the language law is an obligation that government agencies have to follow to fulfill it. We have to say that in this case, because of the arguments promoted by the Workers' Party. I did not appreciate that the government council was called arrogant because he drew out the arguments he made. I felt that in the matter it was very necessary to refer to those arguments. So there's a creepy trend in the debates that instead of talking about what someone is actually saying, they're forming a picture of the person who's saying it, and of what they're really talking about it. It also drew out parallels to equality. I want to say that we live in one of the world's most equal countries, so when it says in the purpose paragraph of the Equality Act that we're going to be an equal country, you could say it's being fulfilled. So to the representative of the Supreme Court, who said that the issue of writing skills is transferred to the employer. It was a little out of context, but in the billing proposition, it says, among other things. that you can make demands. Then you move it over to the fact that the employee is not to be judged by the Civil Service Act in order to break, among other things. the language law, as it could have been done in the past if the old language law was to be followed, which expires today. I believe that this is an important principle in working life. When you are employed somewhere and have to do a job for the job you have, you also need to ensure the skills you need to do it. There are also variations in the quality of cross-target training in many places in the country, and it should not be a hindrance to getting a job in government that you do not have a new job, and the position you have does not require that you be able to comply with the language law in your daily work. I believe that the distinction is important to include in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1525	I think the council will take it that when he gets such strong reactions from several parties, it's because he's writing into a line that we settled around 100 years ago. It was once that there were officials, highly educated lawyers, priests and doctors who governed most of Norwegian politics. Then you got a layman's revolution. Most of those who have been legal representatives in this process are not lawyers – but they are fully competent to understand, read, write, modify and adopt laws, purpose paragraphs and specific paragraphs. We no longer live in a society where lawyers rule the laws, doctors govern health policy, or priests govern education policy, as it was 100 years ago. It is that argument that the Council of State is dangerously close when, instead of responding to concrete challenges from Trettebergstuen and others – such as that the law, in relation to previous legislation, weakens the obligation to respond to the objectives of the country they are addressing, or that the advice of the Council of Languages to strengthen their competence to ensure Norwegian languages in all different areas – refers to the purpose paragraph. Well, in the committee, the parties Right and Christian People's Party on page 10 of the vote are able to answer those challenges by saying that well, they haven't, but that there are other things that are positive, among other things. that the county council is given an extended responsibility – and yes, it is fine that the county council is given an extended responsibility. They do not respond to the fact that the purpose of the law is so wonderful that it does not really matter which specific paragraphs are down in the law. A trend in society is that what we can call the liberal elite believes they know better than ordinary people – ordinary people who send their representatives to the Stortinget. It's at the heart of an anti-democratic mindset in such an approach. We have had quite prominent politicians in Norway, both Gerhardsen, Bratteli and others, who thought they could rule a country without a legal basis, and they did a pretty good job. So I think the Council of State would have insisted on going into the reasonable objections that both the hearing bodies and the opposition have, listen and attend – and would like to disagree, but discuss the matter and not beat the table with an official examination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1535	Now we're at the root of the problem: when what's said again is not right, I have to go up here to correct it. The representative Giske says that individuals will now not be able to continue to receive answers in their own language, etc. It is stated in Section 15: ‘In documents addressed to a private legal entity, State bodies and county councils shall use the Norwegian writing language used by the private legal entity in the communication with the body,...’. This is a continuation for the state body – it is not new, but it is new that the county council is also given this obligation. So I don't quite understand – is it wrong for a government council to point out that what the representative says is not right? It's in the law! Not only do we pass on justice – we don't change anything for the state bodies – we also include the county municipalities in the law. How to say it's a weakening, I can't understand. The second representative, Giske, was the Language Council. In other words, Section 19 – now I am not referring to the legal purpose, now we are concretely inside the paragraphs, which the representative asked for – is new. That's new, what I'm going into right now. The tasks of the Language Council are legalised for the first time – it has never been done before. It says in the law: «The Language Council is the administrative body of the State...»; and ‘The Language Council shall advise the State body on the spelling and naming of...’; and ‘The Language Council supervises...’, and «The Language Council shall provide guidance to public bodies on the rules of this Act.» - It's new. In addition, the Language Council shall, in Section 20, which is also new, receive information from government bodies necessary to supervise the rules. So it's not just the purpose paragraph, but it's concrete paragraphs that are news in this law. When we discuss the legal purpose, it is to see the law together – what the purpose of the law is. And it's quite obvious to those who are users of the law in practice, that you have to read the law in line with its purpose. I refer again to the fine article that the case rapporteur made: the law has a purpose, and the law should be read in accordance with its purpose. And I think the representatives of big business are right, as the rapporteur asked, that we talk about the importance of the law and keep it in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1562	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1579	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President of the case, 3 minutes to each of the party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1586	This bill is a matter that we have dealt with effectively and quickly in the committee. I want to thank the Committee for good cooperation and great flexibility. Why was that important? Well, it was important to clarify as soon as possible what the municipalities should do when preparing the autumn's choices. In an uncertain time, it's important. A thorough preparatory work has been carried out on the part of the department. This is done to ensure that by 2021 the collapse and aggregation options can be implemented even if covid-19 still requires additional measures to prevent infection in the municipalities, which is difficult to predict if it does or does not. The proposals shall be temporary and shall apply to the 2021 elections. It has been important for the Committee to be clear. If we want to change things permanently in the electoral law, we get a good opportunity to do that when the election law committee's proposal is to be dealt with, that is, NOW 2020:6. We'll get it back to you later. The government has had a working group that has looked at how the pandemic could affect the implementation of the election, and has therefore made some proposals that were sent to the hearing on 15 December. There are some things that have been taken into account: Fresh voters shall vote as normal, but shall distance themselves and comply with the rules for the protection of infection. Quarantine voters should wait until the quarantine period is over and, if this is not possible, they should have an appropriate voting procedure. voters in isolation should wait, but if it also collides with the choice itself, they must be given the opportunity to vote from home. Risk groups shall be helped to vote as normal. There must be good dialogue with institutions, so that everyone can participate and vote. The Committee welcomes the fact that the basic principle of this work has been that everyone should be given the opportunity to vote. That's why we have this case here today, and the pandemic should in no way limit the right that people have to vote. They have also looked at, just to say that, whether it was possible to postpone the election because it was uncertain, but this is not such a situation. I'll mention some of the changes. It is now proposed that there is an opportunity to make changes in terms of the choice. For example, it may be natural to move the choice to a polling room outside the polling circuit, which is usually a principle. Maybe it's a bigger and better suited local right outside the voice circuit, so that you can follow the infection protection rules. Then it's important to put it into use. For the same reason, it may be natural to use more rooms to get it done properly, or to create additional voting facilities. This is in order for everyone to be allowed to vote, but the Committee stresses the need to ensure the suitability and availability of the electorate. Then there's an important thing about personnel to make the choice. It is enough that reserve staff should be set up this time, and it may be appropriate to do so in cooperation between several smaller municipalities. For this reason, members of the electoral board and civil servants do not necessarily have to be registered in the municipality where they are to help with the elections – again in order for it to be implemented. Furthermore, it has been pointed out that there must be solutions for those who have planned to vote on the voting day, but are not allowed to do so because they come into quarantine or isolation. They must be given the opportunity to vote in an ambulatory manner and to do so throughout the weekend until the election time. There's one point that was probably a little bit demanding, and that's to say that you don't necessarily have to be two voters. In order to ensure that everyone gets a vote, you also open up that it may be possible. Here's a little one in the committee, and probably those behind it will put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1631	We should all like us not to debate and adopt this temporary law today. We're about to get to April 1st, and we had hoped that at least one of us would get rid of this by September. But it is important to be leading was, and it is very good that the government promotes this temporary law. I am also very pleased that the Stortinget quickly dealt with this matter, so that the municipalities could get their choice planned. The case rapporteur went through the matter thoroughly, so I'm not going to go out the debate, but I want to point out what goes on in the number of voice receivers in an ambulatory vote. Although everyone hopes that they will be able to obtain two votes, the Progress Party is, in principle, skeptical, not only because it is common practice with two, but also because it reduces the possibilities of electoral fraud and provides security, not least for the electorate, in a situation that may arise. In this context, the Progress Party would like this change not to be made, but that the current right of two voting recipients should continue to be common practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1640	I promise to make fewer posts than the previous Council of State standing in the pulpit. Let me start by saying that the rapporteur has explained in an excellent way why it is necessary to promote these changes, and their content. So I'm not going to go into it, but I want to say that this is basically about all the voters in Norway being sure that they will have the opportunity to vote, regardless of how the situation is contagious when we get to the elections in September. Our assessment is that it is not possible to postpone the elections in Norway. It will be implemented in September, as provided for in the Constitution, but then we will have to ensure that we have a framework that will enable the elections to be made in a safe and secure manner, while at the same time enabling people to have confidence in the outcome of the elections, and the legitimacy of the Grand Duchy and the Conseil must be safeguarded. Then I understand the issue the Progress Party is going to raise. We have also noted that more input has been received from municipalities that have signaled that they will avoid, as far as possible, using the option we now give them to deviate from the requirement for two recipients. It's an approach that I'm happy to and share. However, the assessment is that it is necessary for municipalities to have the opportunity to accept votes with only one voter in the event of a major outbreak of infection. This is not an invitation to municipalities to have one voter in this election in the ordinary way. This is an opportunity, if it allows, to accept votes with one voter – and of course with other good practices in place, such as sealed urns, to ensure that the integrity of the election is maintained. As I said, the rapporteur has explained well the content of the changes, and I am pleased that the Storting is mainly associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e1664	The request from the Central Party Group for the appointment of the alternate representative, Karianne Bøkestad Andreassen, to take effect from 6 April to 6 May is submitted to the representative, Mr Wilfred Nordlund, under the granted parental leave from 5 April to 7 May. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The cancellation then goes to voting and starts with the matter no. 16-23 Tuesday 23 March, Agenda No 61.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2303	It is added over IV. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2317	It shall be counted against I to III and V to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2327	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2337	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2349	During the debate, Mr Tvedt Solberg put forward 18 proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own big message about recruiting teachers and school leaders with concrete measures to ensure that adequately qualified teachers and school leaders throughout primary education, including an overview of the overall need for new teachers and school leaders and the need for further training of teachers who do not meet new requirements of competence today.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive and good policy for recruitment to teacher training at universities and higher education institutions, which will ensure that teachers with a high level of research competence and up-to-date professional competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to launch a national recruitment campaign specifically aimed at recruiting more men for the teaching profession.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to replace the fourth requirement in mathematics for admission to primary school teacher education with broader and more accurate recording requirements which ensure that teachers’ students have sufficient professional competence, such as increased average characteristics.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to stop the ‘separation’ of teachers with retroactive effect, by proposing the amendment of the training law and the law so as to reintroduce exemptions from the educational qualification requirement for general teachers who met the requirements for being employed in the teaching position. This shall include general school teachers who have commenced training before 1 January 2014.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take targeted action to recover the ‘reserve strength’ of teachers working outside the school and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the parties, is asked to ensure that the school owner and the school management take attractive senior measures in order to allow teachers to stay longer in work.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the educational institutions and research institutions, is asked to carry out research into the measures that need to be taken to ensure more qualified teachers in school and how they can stand longer in the job.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the appropriations for continuing training for teachers are kept at a high level in future proposals for the State budget, in order to ensure a high number of places for continuing training for teachers.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting as soon as possible with several measures for the qualification of unqualified persons employed in teaching positions.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner and, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021, with a proposal for the regulation of the national guidance system for newly trained teachers and a status for the follow-up to the agreement on the national framework for guidance.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate more teachers’ and lecturer students to take temporary courses in school during their education and to ensure that this will be a permanent scheme even after the coronary apathy.’ Proposal 13 reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the practical share of teacher training and to stimulate local recruitment in the last part of the training in order to quickly get teacher students into teaching jobs in communities lacking teachers.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that more practical teachers are given the opportunity to acquire guidance skills, as it is important for students’ development and meeting with the professional life.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an action plan for decentralised teacher training. The action plan shall also include the study centres.’;» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen and develop the decentralised vocational training provision in order to ensure an equivalent and accessible training offer across the country and to allow professional trainers to host the labour market.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to introduce skills requirements also for the practical and aesthetic subjects in the school.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish several offers of relevant practical and pedagogical training courses for persons with completed art and cultural training which may qualify them to teach in relevant aesthetic subjects at primary school.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2472	During the debate, Mr Asphjell put forward three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks it to define cultural heritage schools as schools that ensure the preservation of national valuable competences in subjects of great importance for the preservation of our cultural heritage.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish basic funding for schools offering cultural heritage.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the unfunded funding of cultural heritage schools for adults without the right to secondary education.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2517	During the debate, Mr Tvedt Solberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to quickly assess whether profits from the sale of orphanage property can be considered as unlawful public support for a commercial real estate activity, rather than aid for a non-economic orphanage activity. Furthermore, the Government asks the Government to clarify how any unlawful State aid may be required to be recovered and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals that the public financing of private kindergartens should be abolished by sale or after a certain period of time.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2557	In the course of the debate, Mona Fagerås has put forward four proposals on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 4. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to start work during 2021 on the re-establishment of the former College of Nesna as a fully-fledged higher education institution with primary school and kindergarten teacher training.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to continue teaching at the Nesna Campus Nesna, pending the re-establishment of the higher education offer, as well as to publish places of study for the 2021-2022 academic year in the Syndicated Recording for 2021.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2583	I should have voted against it!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2588	I should have voted against it too!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2593	Then we'll register it. It is then 70 representatives who have voted against the proposals of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, and 17 representatives who have voted in favour. The proposals are therefore not accepted. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e2605	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate which other permanent study facilities can be located at the Nesna Campus to meet regional skills needs in other professional training and disciplines.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government, as part of the investigation into which other permanent study facilities can be located at Campus Nesna, is asking the government to facilitate the establishment at Nesna also to offer joint study facilities located at other places in the region.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3265	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3275	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3287	During the debate, Freddy André Øvstegård put forward two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the Sametinget, asks for international and national experience with legal, institutional, labour and economic models for the registration and protection of traditionally sacred Sami natural sites for future generations.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start cooperation with the Sameting in a timely manner in order to protect a selection of traditionally sacred Sami natural sites. The enhanced protection shall ensure the possibility of continuing Sami practices related to the sites in order to gain experience in the protection methods for subsequent investigation and continuation.» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3320	I voted in favour of the proposals, but it was not registered!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3325	Then we'll register it. There are then 80 representatives who have voted in favour of the vote and 7 representatives who have voted in favour of the proposals. The setting is thus concocted. We then go to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1-3 were interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3342	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Marianne Haukland on behalf of the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No 6-11, from Anette Trettebergstuen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Marianne Haukland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No 13, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 14-17, from Himanshu Gulati on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 18, from Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–17, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the right to free interpretation services be abolished for those who have been in the country for more than five years or who have Norwegian citizenship, including in the treatment of civil matters.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back with proposals for further measures to reduce public expenditure and limit the right to free interpretation services, including in the context of criminal proceedings.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to introduce optional secondary objectives at school and to return to the Stortinget with a case of any legislative changes necessary to implement them.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a bill that allows the individual citizen and the individual public body to choose the target form at their own discretion. It shall be for the official to use the target form, irrespective of the municipality or other public body in which he or she is employed and the form in which an enquiry has been made.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3398	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3403	Then we'll register it. There are then 72 representatives who have voted against the proposals of the Progress Party and 15 representatives who have voted in favour. The proposals are therefore not accepted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for penalties in the event of a breach of the language law.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the development and use of Norwegian languages in the past and at present are scientifically documented and that documentation and standardisation of Norwegian languages are a public mission at a Norwegian scientific institution.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a change in the language law before the revised national budget for 2021 which specifies that the public is responsible for developing and using Norwegian terminology and professional language and to make it available on both target forms within its field of competence.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3434	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a case on symbolic languages, proposing how the right to symbolic languages can be incorporated into the Language Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3453	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with a case on how, in particular, children and young people who lack speech or sign language can be better included in society by means of, inter alia, ASK/symbol language’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3471	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 3 is replaced by the following: (e) internal handling. The fourth and fifth paragraphs of the legislative proposal shall become the third and fourth paragraphs.’.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3492	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 13 is replaced by the following: Municipalities which are language-neutral according to Section 11 of the Act here shall switch between the writing languages on the basis of the quantifications in the second paragraph of Section 13.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3511	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The fourth paragraph of Section 13 is replaced by the following: Municipalities which are language-neutral according to Section 11 of the Act here shall switch between the writing languages in such a way that there is a reasonable relationship between them in publicly available documents.’ The Labour Party, the Progressive Party, the Socialist Left and the Red have now announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3528	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 16, second and third paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: To be added to a government agency, book measures and new stories shall be written according to the rules that apply to the destination use in the service at any time. Municipalities may require the same thing. This does not apply, however, to additions that have not completed sill training in initial training. The Ministry may provide for other special derogations from the first sentence of the second subparagraph.’.» Red has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3549	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 16, second and third paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: State body shall require the addition of both new Norwegian and bookkeeping records to be written in the work. Municipalities may require the same thing. This does not apply, however, to additions that have not completed sill training in initial training. The Ministry may provide for other special derogations from the first sentence of the second subparagraph.’.» The centre party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3571	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Article 16, second and third paragraphs, shall be replaced by the following: State bodies and county councils shall be able to require the addition of both bookkeeping and new Norwegian. This does not apply, however, to additions that have not completed sill training in initial training. The Ministry may provide for other special derogations from the first sentence of the second subparagraph.’.» The Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have now announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3585	Left alerts subsidiary support to the proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3909	It is contested by the third paragraph of Section 1, Section 5, first paragraph, Section 13, first to third paragraphs, and Section 22, paragraph 1, Section 2-5, first sentence of the sixth subparagraph. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3924	It is contested by the third paragraph of Section 3. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3938	Alternatively, the third paragraph of Section 19 of the suspension and Section 20 of the proposal are replaced by the following: 10 and 11, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The third paragraph of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following: The Language Council supervises the compliance of state bodies and county councils with the rules of Section 10, second paragraph, and Sections 12 to 17.’» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘Section 20 is replaced by the following: State bodies and county councils shall provide the Language Council with the reports and information requested by the Language Council as part of the supervision of the rules of Section 10, second paragraph, and Sections 12 to 17.’; The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3966	Alternatively, the first sentence of Section 17 of the adjustment and the proposal No. 9, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The first sentence of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: If the incorrect writing language is used in a document referred to in the second paragraph of Section 14, the recipient or organisations may complain on behalf of the recipient and require the document to be reissued.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3987	The remainder of sections 1, 3, 5,17, 19 and 22 and the other paragraphs are added to the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e3997	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4007	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4195	It is contested by I, § 8-1 a. The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4209	The remainder of I and II and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4220	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4230	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4248	The President will propose to examine the proposal under paragraph 39(e) of the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, which means that the case is rejected. The representative, Mr George Dale, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4255	The disease situation in the country is changing rapidly, and the responses to Norwegian business are doing the same. As late as this week, a number of new measures have been implemented that will frame more businesses across the country. On that basis, the Advance Party will maintain the proposal to deal with this matter in accordance with Section 39, second paragraph, point (c).
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4260	Does anyone else ask for an explanation of vote? Then we go to voting on the way in which we process the report case 346.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4274	Thus, Case 346 will be dealt with under the second paragraph of Article 39(e) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-03-25.ana.ud177e4360	Thus, today's map has been processed. The President would like to take the opportunity to wish good Easter to all representatives, employees and others who work at Stortinget. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
