ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e103	The representative Bears Moxnes, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative of Himanshu Gulati will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e113	I'm going to present what may be the last representative proposal of the Great Ages, and on behalf of the representatives of Silje Hemdal, Pál André Johnsen, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself, I want to put forward a proposal on a national e-sports strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e118	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Case No. 1 to 6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e199	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e218	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e225	So today, the law section of the revised national budget is being addressed. The main debate will probably take place in a week's time when the revised budget itself will be adopted, but it is a central issue that is being debated today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. Before I briefly go through some proposals promoted in this matter, I would like to begin by saying that through the 16th consensus on the budget on the civil side, the four parties have agreed on the direction of the country – a direction in which people and businesses are allowed to retain more of their own earned money, where one ensures that more people come to work, a school that focuses on the quality of training, and not least the freedom of choice for the individual. In particular, the latter has been important for those in need of health care. Through the agreement with the Progress Party, the government has now come in line with its strategy for the way out of the crisis. The pace of vaccination is high, society is opening up a little after a while, and we see that some industries are now experiencing shortages of labour. Norway is among the countries that have so far been most affected by the crisis, both in terms of health and economic impact on the country and population. Nevertheless, we know that the pandemic has been skewed – from those who have had safe work and income and have remained healthy on one side, to those who have been long-term outlawed, have experienced loneliness, have had mental problems and have been without income. When we say we're going to get out of the crisis together, it's just about taking care of the most vulnerable among us. This has been done by the government, and the agreement with the Progress Party has further strengthened the measures. We are revising a government budget that is marked by the crisis in the country, workers, business and Norwegian economy. We must now make sure that we come out of the crisis offensively. Many crisis measures have been dealt with in the Storting since March last year, and many of them through consensus across parties. Now it is important that we make sure that the schemes are designed to speed up Norway, that the schemes stimulate activity and get more people to work. As society opens up more and more, we see people coming back to work. It's very positive. But we also need to make sure now that we take advantage of the chance of making adjustments where necessary, grab hold of the green shift and create new jobs that give tax revenue to the community. It brings me to some of the proposals that are discussed in this vote. A broad majority supports an adjustment to the business compensation scheme and an extension of the pay support scheme. It is good that we have schemes that capture those parts of the business that still experience a fall in turnover due to the pandemic. It's equally important that we now get people back to work. The pay-as-you-go scheme is just such a scheme. Rehabilitation of skilled workers is a good thing for society, the company, but not least for the individual employee. The government has now sent to the hearing an extension of the option tax regime for companies in the start-up and growth phases. The government will come back with a final proposal in the state budget for 2022, but in my opinion this is an important contribution to business start-ups and job creation in Norway. There is also a majority in the United Kingdom that wants to provide for a full exemption from the compensation scheme against the ban on the husbandry of fur animals. This majority is not part of the government parties, and I expect the parties themselves to explain this. I will immediately address the proposal of which the Right is a part. Finally, with this government and the last agreement with the Progress Party, the level of taxation in Norway has been reduced by about 35 billion. kr. An average family is now left with NOK 14 000 more per year compared to 2013. This clearly distinguishes today’s majority from the left, where it is repeatedly proposed to increase the level of taxation — an intensification that is often surgically arranged against Norwegian business owners. Especially now, when business is in a difficult situation and sees red figures, it is damaging to Norwegian ownership that they still have to take out money from the company to pay taxes on their machines and assets. That's the wrong way to go. Now, in the situation we're in, it's perhaps more important than ever that we let Norwegian companies keep more of their own money in order to invest, increase turnover and create new products and new jobs. The size may decide to create jobs. We're also going to do more of that, but the adopted jobs are funded by the created jobs. So let's make the last one a little bit easier, and not harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e248	The representative of Vetle Wang-Soleim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e253	I had hoped that the parties on the right-hand side also saw the advantage of living in a society with little differences in such a pandemic that we've been through now. But there's little to suggest. In the promises for the next majority period, the Right wants to give over 7 billion. kr in tax cuts on taxes on wealth, of which 6 bn. kr goes to the country's 1 pst. Richest. It's not a recipe to take care of the society we have in Norway, with little differences. It will give rise to increased differences and will make us less equipped to meet the next pandemic or the next economic crisis. I would like to mention two specific issues in today's debate before we take the broad discussion on Friday in a week on economic policy. The first thing I want to mention is the salary subsidy on a suspended leave, which the Labour Party in the Stortinget has asked for and supported the implementation of – despite the fact that we have seen that the scheme is clearly lacking. It has intensive problems and has lacked justice requirements, which I will otherwise come back to the end. The payroll scheme is now being extended by two months, for July and August. It is very good and in line with the request decision Stortinget did when the scheme was adopted. But then there is still uncertainty about the spread of infection and the rate of vaccination. Last night we had bad vaccine news – although most of us in these days know about optimism. However, new variants, new outbreaks may occur, and therefore, like today’s decisions, there may be a need to further extend the pay support scheme. That is why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Green Party and the Red Party propose the same thing as we adopted in March, namely that the government, together with the parties, should review the need for an extension. But this time the proposal does not get the majority of some strange reason. Now it seems that the payroll scheme should be abolished regardless of the late summer and the harvest situation. For the Workers' Party, it has been consistently throughout the pandemic that the crisis measures should last for as long as the crisis persists. The second issue I want to raise is the business compensation system. Since the start of last year, the working party has been concerned that small enterprises, often in the service sector, have been hit by the pandemic. We believe that the schemes have not taken these companies sufficiently, and have repeatedly proposed better and more targeted schemes. This could, for example: have been made through a turnover-based grant scheme with a low maximum for the enterprises affected by strict disease protection measures. This could be a success for a hard hit outdoors and catering industry. Here, the four right parties have been united in their opposition to better arrangements for small businesses, like the resistance to justice requirements for those receiving compensation from the community. The justice requirements have been about stopping dividend payments, bonuses, employee redundancies and increased management salaries – primarily to maintain trust in the schemes, but also to prevent unprofessional actors from getting rich in Community corona support. We're at the end of the landfill session, and I hope we see the beginning at the end of the pandemic. The compensation schemes are to be phased out, and I believe that they are later subject to thorough evaluations. However, when we see the light at the end of the tunnel, we can draw up some preliminary policy assessments of the measures aimed at business and the compensation system in particular. I mean, there are two lessons we're going to take with us to the next economic crisis. Firstly, the next time we start, we have to make sure that small enterprises, which do not have the same capital as the big ones, get better out of the schemes we're designing. Secondly, Community support must be accompanied by demands and assumptions, not because we believe that everyone is unprofessional, but on the contrary because the vast majority of Norwegian enterprises are serious, and the unprofessional are not to be enriched at their expense. And that the schemes have confidence is crucial to being able to spend so much money on corporate support. In the view of the Workers' Party, the business compensation scheme has been necessary to ensure jobs, but should have been more accurate in relation to small enterprises and had a level of justice at the bottom. These are lessons from the economic handling of the pandemic that I hope the parties on the right are also taking with them. With that, I would like to address the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e272	The representative Eigil Knutsen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e277	The Progress Party has concluded, in our opinion, a very good budgetary agreement with the government parties on the main lines of the revised national budget for 2021, and we do not have our own specific comments on the matter we are dealing with today. However, it is worth recalling that the audit entity includes both the removal of the charge on non-alcoholic beverages and significant efforts on both mental and transport. It is also worth recalling that the agreement comes to the top of the agreement relating to the State budget for 2021, where the Progress Party among others. had an impact on a border trade package with the closure of the chocolate and sugar levy and significant reductions in some other excise duties. The whole of this, we'll be back in a week. Let me also comment on some aspects of the tax proposal in addition to what the case-rapporteur was about. Today, Norway has banned the introduction and placing on the market of new tobacco and nicotine products, and in the state budget for 2021, the Progress Party was given a fresh impetus for a proposal to allow the sale of e-cigarettes containing nicotine and tobacco-free nicotine. This has taken a long time to get in place. Today, we are taking the first step by making adjustments to the charging system so that e-cigarettes and tobacco-free nicotine snus are reduced when they are allowed compared to other tobacco products. What remains is to incorporate the tobacco directive into the EEA Agreement, and as we understand it will happen quite soon during the year. The Progress Party shall follow up the majority position of the Trade Committee and ensure full exemption from tax on compensation to fur farmers through changes in tax law. It is expensive to shut down an industry, and we have had this subject of repeated treatments in Stortinget. Now I hope that both through the decision that the Stortinget has made on compensation, and also this tax change, we have come to an end. In the state budget for 2021, the Progress Party also obtained an approval for official authorisation of naprapates and osteopates, as well as a reassessment of whether acupuncturists are to be authorised as health professionals. After the budget agreement, we have had many rounds with the government parties following this decision, and we are pleased that we are today continuing the VAT exemption until 1 January, pending the introduction of an authorisation system. Let me conclude by supporting the importance of the approach we are adopting today in the case of British companies in the VAT code. The United Kingdom is one of Norway’s most important trading partners in goods, services, capital movements and investments. In this way, we are continuing the scheme applicable to the United Kingdom as an EU member. It is important that Norway and the United Kingdom cooperate to reduce barriers to trade, and that we as neighbouring countries continue to provide the best possible opportunity for free trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e290	Over the past year, we have been through a pandemic that has hit workers, businesses and self-employed throughout the Norwegian community. It has been important for the Storting to take vigorous and targeted action against those who have been affected and who are still hard hit by the pandemic. There are workers who don't know if they have a job to go to tomorrow, companies that are at risk of going bankrupt, self-employed people who are at risk of losing their life's work that might be built up through generations, and many who notice differently the consequences of the pandemic. Unfortunately, the proposals made by the government, including those made by the government and its support party, have not been sufficient and targeted enough to ensure a number of those severely affected by the pandemic. In the case that we are dealing with today, there are also some questions related to the pandemic that are important and that are explained. It is available from among others: a proposal to amend and adjust the compensation scheme. The centre party has repeatedly asked for changes to the compensation scheme to be made, both in order to impose conditions on beneficiaries and in order to set up the scheme in order to make it more effective and effective in relation to small enterprises. We have arranged for one to rectify the totally unfair discrimination between companies that rent their equipment and get the leasing costs covered, and those that own themselves, who do not receive equivalent cover for the same type of costs. We have been concerned that one has to cover maintenance costs and costs related to the protection of infection. There are a number of costs that are important, both to ensure greater fairness between enterprises and to ensure that normally viable enterprises get through the crisis safely. But when the government parties and their support party now provide for a change in the compensation scheme, nothing is being done. What one does is that one makes a change in the factor in the calculation of the compensation scheme, which means that the beneficiaries receive less support than before. We could have been involved in such an adjustment in the calculation factor in the compensation scheme – if at the same time it would have been willing to remedy perfectly obvious and unreasonable discrimination in the scheme that would make it not for some companies 85 pst. cover a sheep, or 60 pst. or 50 pst. One may be left with a coverage of fixed, unavoidable costs of 20-25 pst. So when there has not been a willingness to actually go in and make targeted, reasonable and correct improvements to the compensation scheme, we also think it is wrong to address such a weakening of the compensation scheme that this adjustment is in isolation. So to the payroll scheme: the Centre Party has also been in favour of the payroll scheme and voted in favour of it, although we believe there are a number of weaknesses in how it is organised. When we dealt with the compensation scheme a few months ago, the Senterpartiet decided that it should have a longer duration, while at the same time the individual enterprise should receive compensation when it takes back an employee within a given period. I now record that this is exactly what the majority has also come back and seen it makes sense to do. We also believe that one needs to look at how the infection situation develops, and whether there is a need for further extension of the duration of that scheme. In this setting, we also have a proposal to contribute to one of the industries that have been hard and long-term affected by the crisis, in order to contribute to increased activity when one gradually opens up Norway again, and there is a temporary reduction in the provision of food. We're just doing that to contribute to the fact that hard hit outdoors, restaurants and others serving food to people, can be left with a little more when one eventually has a turnover that's going to stand up a little bit. With that, I take up the proposals No. 6 and 10, which the Center Party has alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e309	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e314	When the withholding tax rules on interest and royalties finally came in connection with the state budget last autumn, Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner said: ‘Gross migration reduces the tax base and weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian businesses. In order to counteract profit movements from Norway, the Government proposes to introduce a 15 per cent withholding tax on interest, royalty and rent payments for certain physical assets.» And on the other hand, ‘This is an important step towards countering the profit shifting and eroding of the tax bases.’ That's very wise. This was a change that SV also supported, and that we have been in charge of in Stortinget for several years. The withholding tax helps to counteract profit movements. There is an effective taxation of income that would otherwise have been subject to low taxes in the country of destination or not taxed at all. That's why my big question is now: why does the government now propose to undermine these rules, which were proposed six months ago? In the revised budget that we are examining, and in the current setting, the government proposes to grant exemptions in these recently adopted source tax rules. It will grant exemptions that are clearly favourable to Norwegian investors investing in the Norwegian economy through tax havens. These are investments made by Norwegians in Norway, but made through companies abroad, via one or more countries on the road. In short, money is moved to foreign companies before being reinvested in the economy through direct investment. This type of investment pattern, the type of set-up, is usually economically motivated. The SSB figures show that Norwegians are increasingly investing in Norway through tax havens. So here we are talking about a significant amount of capital affected by these proposed rules on deductions and exemptions from the withholding tax that the government itself introduced six months ago. If you look at where these investments are to be exempted, there are a number of tax havens, such as Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Bermuda, Cyprus, Singapore, Guernsey and Cayman Islands. The investment from the Luxembourg tax haven alone amounts to SEK 133 billion. kr in 2019. It's obvious that this is about large sums that get an exception. So my question is, why would the government grant exemptions for them? What kind of lobbying campaign from the richest elite in Norway has been targeting government parties, against the Right since last fall? Further to the cash support. Now my red-green colleagues from the Center Party and the Workers' Party have spoken well about it. It is obvious that we have had a crisis policy over the past year and a half that has had very uneven distribution effects for business and that has from the beginning favored the rich business owners at the expense of small businesses. This is about the fact that cash support has been both distorted and too focused on the largest companies with the strongest capital owners in their back. It has been a matter of not being willing on the part of the majority to make quite reasonable demands that, if you receive a lot of government support from the community, you should not be able to cancel people during the same period, then you should not be able to make dividends or increase management salaries. Nevertheless, we have been given more and more numbers and indications that show that this is exactly what has happened. We've got a pretty open lock here for the largest corporations, for the corporations that have capital owners. There has been a transfer from the community where it should have been the private shareholders who had taken more of that bill. At the same time, we see that the small and medium-sized enterprises around the country have not received the help they needed, whether in the food industry here in Oslo or in the tourism industry in Northern Ireland. It has to be a huge paradox for a lot of the business owners, who experience that the Left and Right have run from them as soon as they could, and really have not been willing to support those companies that might not get those loans from the bank. In conclusion: I could not help but notice that the case rapporteur spoke about the conversion and the green change in his post. We have been informed by the Ministry of Finance regarding this matter that the total proceeds from the tax changes in the petroleum tax regime have now increased from 8 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr. These are huge subsidies transferred from the community to the oil companies at a time when we should have changed. With that I would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e341	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e347	First, a little comment to the representative Kaski, who points out that we have not been able to follow up the small and medium-sized or long-term business in the crisis we are in. Clearly, the compensation scheme is not fair. You can't do that. That is exactly why we have arranged and put in place the support via the municipalities that will be flexible enough and go out to the outdoor industry, the small shops and to those who need it. Then it's especially to get criticism from the representative Kaski, especially here from Oslo, when we know that the last payment from the state, which came the first week after Easter, has yet to deliver to the outdoor industry. It has soon been used for two months to get hold of and do – what should be a simple system – and get it delivered to those who need it. It has to happen now. Since 2013, the Left has been in and out of the budget and revised the budget for the Storting. Every time, we have had the priority of implementing a large green tax shift. In those years, over two major periods, there has been great results. That's the green tax change that makes us sell 60 pst in May. electric cars in Norway. We have a shift in the transport sector that really no other country is in the vicinity of. Over the last five years, the tax system has brought up the use of biofuels in Norway, which is helping to reduce emissions. It was previously through a tax exemption but is now through a turnover directive. We have increased the CO 2 tax throughout this period. We have also extended the areas covered by the CO 2 tax. In this revised budget, we are making two changes to strengthen climate policy. One is smaller, but it extends the scope of the CO 2 tax. With effect from 1 July, the CO 2 tax on natural gas and LPG is also introduced for chemical reduction, at a rate of 25 pst. of the general rate. It's right to keep that rate low, because there's not many businesses. It is quite right that they also get a CO 2 tax, but when this is due to escalate, we have to follow up with support schemes via Enova and with other support schemes to avoid paying this fee. Then there's an important change in solar energy and the use of solar energy adapted to living conditions and communities. The government now warns that we should go away from the previous requirement that housing law had to have a wiring network. This has meant that you have not received the installation of solar energy. An upper threshold is also provided for installed capacity or power in the solar photovoltaic system, which will then limit and ensure an exemption from electricity charge and network rental for those who will install solar energy. There's been a barrier here. It's taken a long time to get it out of here. It is good that this is now being sent out to the hearing, so that we can get a new system in place by 1 January next year. This is good for the environment. It's going to drive a lot more use of solar energy, but it's also good for the wallet. It is clear that for the housing laws that can now look at the new scheme being created, it will only be a matter of calculating when this is profitable, and in the future it will be profitable for many more than today. We have focused on facilitating start-up and growth companies in all these years. I am very pleased that we in revised alerts a simpler and better option tax system, and that it will be so good. It's going to be close to the Swedish system, as we know it today. It will cover several enterprises – enterprises with up to 50 mills and 80 mills. kr in revenue and balance sheet total. There has been a work that follows up an improved option tax regime that we have done in several rounds before, but this will allow the scheme to be put into much better use. It also makes the tax regime more favourable to those who use it, not least by realising the taxation now when the employee realises its shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e375	The backbone of the debate that is being pulled up here is, of course, the management of the pandemic and the situation in which the country has stood. There is an ongoing evaluation of the place in which both Norwegian authorities and several international actors are involved, which also helps to give us a good knowledge of how action has been taken in Norway and what is becoming important in the future. The picture there is pretty clear. Norway has been partly lucky that the prices of some of the raw materials that we depend on, on which Norwegian business is dependent, have remained well, and we have been competent to have good measures in place to take the breadth of Norwegian business, while an en route has adjusted the course when one has seen that it has been necessary. Not least in Norway, we have the best starting point that we can have, with a well-developed welfare society that allows us to have muscles to meet this pandemic, and that we have confidence between people and authorities, which has made the measures we have put in place effective. The reason why I draw up that picture is what has to happen in the future. Because there are also a number of international actors that evaluate the current position of Norway, who say very clearly that it has been right and important to have the very expansive use of money Norway has met with the pandemic, and that the tough job is now coming, because one is forced to take down some of it. One is required to phase out some of the actions you have phased in, as we take the day after day back step by step. Of course, we're forced to reintroduce schemes or make new arrangements if there's new infections, as we've done over the past 30 years, but I don't think that's the hard job. We've got a good toolbox there. What becomes the difficult job, I believe the parties in Stortinget and Norwegian authorities that health will also be forced to do – that some of these measures must be phased out, and that we are forced to take back one day. There we are forced to continue the heavy job, which is to convert Norway and create productive jobs all around the country and give people and families it supports they need to live a good life, where I think the last budgets of the majority have shown a clear direction. I'm just going to comment on some of the things that appear in the debate that are in the configuration. There was, after all, a major debate coming in a little from here, with a debate about the NOKUS tax and the source tax introduced there. It will be met both in the note and in fact also in the proposition made, because one will not have a system that will lead to double taxation. There is also a reference to the tax laws §10-65, about how these rules are supposed to work today to ensure that people pay the tax they have, and a dense part of the bypass that has been, but one must not do it in a way where one introduces a double tax. Furthermore, there is a possible possibility of being around, but it is not very substantial, and there is also a work going on where the department will look further on how to do this. I want to draw something from the plural comments that I think are particularly important, and that's the role Norway has taken in international work to ensure that there is a greater degree of transparency around the number base on where people pay taxes, and where Norway has had a driving role in developing an international code that ensures that the company, including the large global companies, pays its fair tax. We have to follow up on that. Norway is going ahead, and we are going to do so by strengthening the role of Norway in international cooperation, because it is important that the countries of the world are able to do so. Furthermore, some changes, relaxations, in the BSU scheme, and what you can use them, have been made. There is largely an established practice. That's very cool. RNB outlines possible solutions to meet the Storting decision to increase the tax on wind power. I think that is a good basis for the further debate when it comes to hearing. I like to go into it and think it is important that we make sure that the municipalities that have agreed to wind turbines, also see the benefit when one comes to the end of it. The overall picture here is where I started: small changes are being made in the tax system, but the important thing is that we are still able to target the situation in Norway and build the bridge for the long project, which is to create viable jobs throughout our country. Then we must also dare to take up the debate on how to phase out the schemes and contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e400	In the last year, the Stortinget has adopted several major action packages in response to the pandemic. Much of it has been both right and necessary, but something has, to say it a little neat, not been quite as good. Despite repeated proposals by the Red Party and by others in the opposition in the last year, no restrictions have been imposed on either dividends, management fees or bonuses for those receiving corona crisis support. The bourgeois here in the Great Britain, with the Progress Party on the tow, has contented themselves with mild admonitions with whispering voice, unless these rich owners can be so kind as to show some moderation. And while many businesses include: in the serving industry has covered only a fraction of its fixed costs, the overview shows that 1 pst. about half of the total aid received by the companies so far. The ten that have received the most have averaged over 100 million. kr i support. So the government's slow attempt to tighten up the maxim of the scheme will therefore be too late to prevent the huge distortion that has already occurred, and it will, typically, only when the EU has decided that it needs to be tightened up. The Norwegian government could not come up with that idea on its own, to put it that way. There are very few in our country, whether you ask economists or ordinary people, who understand the logic that the government has east out large sums to the richest of us without making any demands on paychecks, zero paychecks and full stop in bonuses. Sharing the money without claims is a policy that many people rightly respond to. Even a mild proposal from Red, namely that the companies have to pay back the aid they have received as a minimum before they start paying dividends to their owners, was therefore too expensive for the majority here in the hall. Then some companies – to be told – have chosen to repay the support they received for their own good will. That's good, but it's a few. It could have been introduced as a rule to ensure that the money returned to the community, i.e. to avoid what we see now, namely that companies with one hand receive tens of millions of taxpayers, and with the other hand distribute dividends to their shareholders or advertise new private investment adventures with what is in practice the community's money and which has been granted by decision in the Storting. It's obvious to everyone that the pandemic has gone wrong – we all agree on that. But then, in addition, the government's crisis policy has further reinforced the differences. One of the most obvious decisions that makes it visible is the government that chose to cut the property tax once again. While hundreds of thousands of people went unemployed, were permized, fell into income, they cut the wealth tax for the rich, and they said it was a measure against the coronary apathy. It's a sort of high point, or maybe a low level, in terms of government's management of the coronary crisis fiscally so far. We believe that the right thing will be to find a fair way out of the coronary crisis, where we distribute the bill fairly and ensure that those who have enriched themselves through the year 2020-2021 – for some have become much richer this year – will pay back to the community through a special tax on corona profit, and that we do not allow ordinary people to get the bill in the future, but continue what has been temporary reinforcements of the safety net until now. We believe that Norway needs less differences, that we need a way out of the crisis that ensures work and income for all, and not least ensures that we get a Norway that has more sustainability and more coherence than what we have with the policies of the bourgeois government. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e415	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e420	The reopening of society has begun. The activity gets up, people come back to work. I would like to have a discussion about the government's corona management both in terms of health and in terms of economics. International assessments are good. Norway is one of the best countries in terms of health and economy. Now it's important that we facilitate activity and conversion. That is why we are proposing some changes to the compensation schemes so that they do not, in themselves, inhibit the growth and conversion that now have to come. As a starting point, the tax arrangements should be fixed throughout the year. The government has therefore proposed only minor changes to the tax rules in the revised national budget. The background for some of the proposals is to limit the adverse effects of the corona pandemic on the Norwegian economy, businesses and workplaces. The low VAT rate has been temporarily reduced from 12 pst. to 6 pst. until 30 June 2021. The Government has proposed, and is given a majority to extend the reduction until 1 October. It is a contribution to tourism and passenger transport businesses when society is gradually reopened. In order to help more enterprises recover from the pandemic, the government has also proposed to defer and extend the payment period for deferred tax claims. In addition, the government has made some proposals that are not related to the pandemic. The Government has proposed to impose a charge on wild marine resources as part of ensuring the community a greater share of the value of fisheries resources. Furthermore, the government has proposed the imposition of a charge on e-cigarettes and other nicotine products. In order to ensure that the minimum pension is still tax-free following the adopted increases in the minimum pension, the government has proposed to increase the rate of the minimum deduction of the pension. The government has also proposed that savings in BSU funds be used for the costs and maintenance of owner-occupied dwellings. In the revised national budget, the government also warns that we will send a proposal for a new option tax regime for companies in the start-up and growth phases at the hearing. It's now done. The scheme will be simpler, include more companies and be more tax-friendly and predictable than the current system. The Government Parties and the Advance Party have agreed to abolish the levy on non-alcoholic beverages and to make flowers from the second poorest developing countries generally free of customs duties. These proposals, together with other tax cases that do not require legislative decisions, will be dealt with in the Grand Duchy next Friday. I have noticed that the committee has joined most of the government's proposals, but at one point the majority is opposed to the government's proposals. The Government has proposed that compensation for fur farmers be taxed under the system of the tax law in the event of involuntary realization, known as conditional tax exemptions. On the other hand, the Financial Committee has followed the Business Committee and proposed full tax exemption on compensation. I believe that the right thing must be the conditional tax exemption scheme of the tax law, but of course take note of the committee's proposal. Finally, I must be allowed to thank the Committee for its good cooperation through the handling of the coronary apathy so far. A special thank-you to the Progress Party, which, together with the government parties, is now also receiving revision of the national budget. It's important. It creates predictability both for enterprises and for workers. I am pleased that it is now also the majority of the government's exit strategy for the various schemes. It is important to provide the best possible basis for growth, development and not least for people to come back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e463	In my post, I addressed the compensation scheme, which is now being extended for two months, which the government has assessed in line with the request decision taken by the Stortinget in March. But there's still a lot of uncertainty out there about economic development further. Vaccination rates may vary; yesterday there was bad vaccine news. There may be new outbreaks of infection that send people into new permits. In the past, the Stortinget has, as I said, decided that a new assessment should be made at a later stage, in which case the proposal has been given a majority. This time, neither the government parties nor the Progress Party vote in favour of a reassessment during the summer. So my question to the finance minister is whether it is now to interpret the abolition of the wage support scheme, no matter what the situation in the labour market is in the late summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e470	Let me just get to the very starting point, that now we're opening up society, and the plan for further reopening is solid. It'll get the activity up, and people come back to work. The pay-as-you-go scheme has some very unfortunate consequences. Providing the enterprises NOK 25 000 per month to pay employees has an unfortunate incentive effect. Therefore, this is a scheme that should only apply for a short period of time and be targeted for a period during which enterprises can obtain assistance and support and security to take back workers. What we propose is consistent with the number of days of wage support – in other words, in line with what was the original proposal of the Progress Party, that aid can be maintained for 108 days, but over a slightly longer period. I believe that that system should be terminated, as we have proposed. We have not experienced that any business organisations have called for any further extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e475	I thank you for your clear answer. I'm going to go over the general compensation scheme, which hopefully will also be phased out at some point. It might start to be time to learn some lessons from it. I mentioned in my post that I assume that it is thoroughly evaluated also by external actors, and it is going to be, but now it is also possible to draw some political lessons. I mentioned two in my post. One is that it is not experienced as the scheme has taken on small businesses, especially in the service sector, well enough. In addition to lack of justice requirements, the scheme will weaken confidence in the scheme in parts of society. There are some, few, unprofessional companies that have received aid at the same time as they, for example: has taken out large dividends. My question is whether the Minister of Finance has begun to take similar political lessons from the scheme, now that, hopefully, it is going to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e484	I agree that we must learn from both the crisis management and the various tools we have used. None of us have ever been in a situation like the one we've been in last year, and it's important that we evaluate the different tools. With regard to the compensation scheme, the Riksrevision has already carried out one assessment and their assessment is that it has worked well and in line with the ambition of the Storing and Government. Then, of course, there are weaknesses, and I think we need to go through this to see how it could have been done differently, so that we have the best possible basis if it becomes necessary to do this again. But I disagree that small and medium-sized enterprises have not been compensated. We see that many of these schemes, because there is a set of different schemes, have also taken small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular in combination with the municipal valve system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e491	The Council of State considered that it is now important to contribute to growth and development in the future and to regain activity in industries that have been hard hit. The Central Party fully agrees with this. So one of the first government councils mentioned in the breath, that one of the government's supporting party Progress Party has a plan to double the fee on travel life, and on the bus, boat, ferry and culture, from 1 October. These are industries that are still hard hit by the pandemic. Many of them offer activities planned and ordered in time, and there is still uncertainty about the disease situation. Why does the Council of State think it makes sense to double the levy for those industries? So for each of the heads of a servant, you're going to be left with less in this construction phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e497	For – I think – all parties in the Stortinget other than the Center Party are a crisis response. For the Central Party, it is a political matter that you want the VAT to be 6 p.m. It's a majority in Stortinget that thinks it should be on 12 pst. We see now that we reopen society, the activity gets up, and people come back to work. The plan for further reopening is firm, and we see that people are being vaccinated in large numbers. Hopefully we'll be back in a more normal situation when we get to the autumn. It shows both Norwegian and international assessments of the Norwegian economy. I believe that the period when we now have the low tax, is really the right period to have it. Many people have been eager to have it for a period when there has been little activity. It is now, when the activity resumes within transport, culture and travel, it may be reasonable to give a breathing room and an extra push for a period of time. But when we get late-harvest, it's time for normalization.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e504	The Minister of Finance stated in his statement that Norway has become the best economical and health-friendly. It is possible that it is right; the question is probably more at which price, and who it is that has benefited in particular from the Community's funds through this crisis. One example of this is the petroleum tax return, which I was in my post. We now have new calculations that show that the total sample surface area is 10 billion. kr, not 8 br. kr, to which it was first estimated, and one of the country's leading experts on the petroleum tax regime, Diderik Lund, estimates that we can total tens of billions of subsidies to the oil industry. It was the low oil price that was used both by the industry and the bulk of the population as arguments for making changes in the tax system. But today the oil price of $70 is the barrel, and we have to two years back in time to see the corresponding numbers. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, does he now have a better reason for this huge use of money, which could have been used to facilitate green industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e511	Let me just make it clear first that I didn't say we got the best out, I said we're among those countries, because there's a lot of other people who have done the right thing. We're probably going to have a lot of discussions about the temporary oil tax return in the future, and it's probably going to be evaluated as well. I believe it was right to implement changes in a temporary period last spring. We were in a situation where both the Norwegian economy and the world economy fell sharply, the oil price was very low, and for the majority of the Stortinget it was important not to stimulate increased activity, but to ensure that the planned activity was actually carried out. It was important both for the jobs directly related to the petroleum sector and for ensuring the essential skills and jobs of the supplier industry. I believe that it is important, also in the transition to the low-carbon society, and also in order to facilitate green value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e518	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e525	I wanted to follow up the contribution of the representative Ola Elvestuen, who is making a creative effort to put the responsibility for crisis policy, to deal with the economic crisis in Norway, in the municipalities of the country and specifically in the municipality of Oslo. I have to say that is particularly special, given that it has been an explicit policy throughout that dealing with the economic crisis is a national responsibility. And then the government and the majority have decided to transfer some of that responsibility to the municipalities, convenient enough, one must say, into this election campaign, but also because the national industry policy and support policy prove to be completely inadequate, as the red-green parties have pointed out all the way, for the small and medium-sized enterprises. And if we're going to have a competition about how focused or how fast the different arrangements have come into place, we can, because the same companies in Oslo's outdoor business are sitting waiting for the compensation system to come into place. First they were told that they could apply for compensation for March and April 18th, then May 20th, then June 9th, and then we can start talking about the number of months to get the absolutely necessary compensation for the fixed costs they had. So I think you should be careful about transferring this responsibility to the municipalities. So a comment on the withholding tax and the expression double taxation. I understand that this has been – it must have been – a rather intense political campaign to get the exceptions that have now been put in place, because there is no reason why the government and the ministry should not be aware of this last year when the proposal was presented. Then it's been an impact campaign, and then you use words as double taxation. But withholding tax is a cost of capital that reduces profits, and thus the income that comes to NOKUS taxation. There is no basis for saying that it is a double taxation. The paradox here is that the derogation that the government is now adding to the revised budget will disapprove of Norwegian direct investment in Norway. So when you are so concerned by the government that there will be too much foreign capital invested in Norway, and that with the red-green proposals relating to the property tax, you will rather prefer foreign capital, which is not correct, you do exactly that through the proposal that is here related to the withholding tax. It is a way of ensuring that those who have circumvented the Norwegian tax regime, those who invest from tax havens in Norway, norwegian, receive lower taxes. Where there is a possibility of turning around those tax codes, there it's going to be exploited, and I have to say it's very disappointing that these exceptions are now being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e532	I will take a strong distance from the indications that these adjustments are a consequence of political influence and lobbying. I'm not familiar with it. I am not aware that there has been any such pressure against anyone – at least not against me as Minister of Finance. I am dedicated to combating aggressive tax planning. I am concerned that we should establish international cooperation, and we are doing so now – both to ensure minimum taxation and to give market countries a share of it – and I have implemented this withholding tax. I am aware that someone has wanted to postpone the introduction of the withholding tax. I've said no to that. I think it's important that we now get it in place. But then it is that withholding taxes are applied to low tax countries and therefore also includes payments to so-called NOKUS companies, Norwegian controlled companies in low tax countries. Norwegian owners of such companies are already taxed at a Norwegian level through the NOKUS rules. It is not that this is something that we have found out just before the revised national budget was presented. I warned when we introduced the withholding tax into the 2021 budget, that there was a need to make some clarifications before the entry into force, and we are now doing so. This won't have any significant proceeds, it's to avoid double taxation. If it is that one is taxed at Norwegian level through the NOKUS Code, it is a double taxation if one is taxed at source in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e549	I have to say that it is a little sad that we actually got there that SV from the pulpit today is in the process of evaluating all the arrangements we have had to deal with this crisis. I find it very difficult to join much of what Kaski has mentioned. Let me point to some elements. Let's first do the compensation scheme. When it came into place, it was actually a broad, large majority on the Stortinget who decided that we had to get the help out quickly. It was not possible to have a millimetre adjustment or a millimetre accuracy. The money had to go out. We had to avoid unnecessary bankruptcy. This wasn't a party for the companies. It was about covering parts of their unavoidable, fixed expenses, so that they could get over the cracks, and so that many of those who were then licensed had a job to get back to. So it is absolutely right that even though SV was part of those agreements, they have nevertheless gone out and criticized it that there has been no dividend ban or cancellation ban. It's an honest thing. It's a political disagreement. I am not going to say that there is an analysis that SV is not allowed to provide, but let me then attend to it a little. I believe that it would be unprofessional if we were to ban dividends and prohibit companies from resigning. Why would it be unprofitable to ban dividends? Well, some companies are in a situation where they have to take dividends to reinvest in the company or to pay taxes. We want companies to reinvest. We want someone to keep the wheels going. I expect SV to agree that we also want to pay this tax. The second is that some companies can come into a situation where it is actually necessary for a serious and conscientious government or daily management to cancel people, so that the company can survive. That's why we said instead of having a ban we should have a clear expectation, we should signal that it is important not to have that kind of unnecessary use of money or unnecessary cancellations. But banning it would be totally unprofessional. Finally, it is not that the municipal scheme is a scheme where a problem has been imposed on municipalities. This was an answer to a problem that the municipalities raised with Stortinget. They needed money to help the companies locally. Many companies fell between two chairs, and most municipalities thought it was a positive contribution. So we're always going to be open to see if there are better solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e564	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e569	Well, that's right now we have to evaluate. We are going to have to evaluate the crisis policy that has been implemented, both now and in the future. We're well inside of year two of this pandemic, and then we have to evaluate and adjust. This is precisely what the SV criticises of today's government, for example. has continued a compensation scheme that has been too generous for the largest enterprises, without making any demands, for more than one year. We see the consequences of that now, and the government also has to deal with that. Then I just want to tell the Minister of Finance that we are very happy that the source tax code came into place. It was high time, it was good, but implementing a clarification is not implementing an exemption, as was done in today's revised budget. It is clear that this is based on the fact that companies in the low tax countries themselves report on the correct information to calculate the NOKUS tax correctly. There are companies established in tax havens for this purpose. [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e576	The President recalls that speaking time is not a guide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e582	The Minister of Finance once again has an intense defence of why it is right to double the fees for some of the industries that have been most hit by the pandemic. It is quite right, as the Minister of Finance says, that the Central Party has thought over time that it was unwise to increase the cost of travel as much as one did before the pandemic took place. But then the finance minister says that a fee of 6 pst. is a temporary crisis response and is correct. So the question is, is the crisis with travel, aviation, other transport and culture on 1 October? In that case, the government sits with a completely different glass sphere than that of many others in the Norwegian community. I also record that the Nav Director, when he provides analyses and will point to which industries have been most hit by the pandemic, pulls out aviation and travel life as two of them. He goes on to say that there are two of the industries where you have to expect that the consequences of the pandemic will be noticed over a longer period of time. Why? Yes, because these are industries like, among other things, is based on the fact that there is activity and tourists from abroad. It is also based on future orders in time. Many of those working in these industries still feel that there are cancellations because there is uncertainty about the future situation, as there are still not so many coming to Norway as planned. So that an early fall comes in a situation where you're going back to the high level of travel life mums like one had when the crisis started – 12 pst. – is extremely unwise for all the jobs around Norway that depend on the tourism industry. Before the pandemic, there were 170 000 workers. With regard to aviation, which is so important to bind a long-distance country like Norway together, and as one who makes sure that from 1 October, travel life savings are doubled: I do not understand that the government parties and their support parties can stand upright in this room and say that it makes sense, and that there is a temporary crisis response – as if the crisis for those who are still living with great uncertainty for their jobs and businesses will soon be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e593	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 8 and 9 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e624	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, the President will propose that, within the allocated speaking time, a reply be given to the members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e631	In May 2019, the EU adopted new rules for banks and other credit institutions on, inter alia: capital requirements and crisis management, which are often referred to as the EU banking package. A minority in the Financial Committee is out of the question of the plurality and recommendation on this matter, and I would also like to do some good for the plurality setting. I assume that the minority will promote their views in the debate. These rules we have for treatment here have as an ambition to clarify regulations, adjust rules that have had unintended effects on individuals, and make it easier for smaller and non-complex companies to meet requirements, among others. information obligation. The proposal shows how the current Norwegian legislation has to be amended in order to implement the expected EEA rules corresponding to the EU banking package, and the majority of the Committee endorses the proposal from the government on how the legal acts can be implemented in Norwegian law, through changes in the Financial Barriers Act, the Securities Trading Act and the Financial Supervision Act. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee agreed to take part in a forthcoming decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the necessary acts in the EEA Agreement. I would like to add a comment to the changes in capital requirements legislation. Here, for the majority of the Committee, it is quite central that the regulatory burden is reduced for smaller enterprises and that the same is true for reporting revenue. I would therefore like to stress that the national action space needs to be exploited in order to reduce the regulatory costs of smaller and non-complex financial undertakings, so that they can be competitive towards the large national and international financial undertakings. The majority of the Committee is concerned with providing good framework conditions for Norwegian local banks to compete with the major regional banks and foreign banks in Norway. One suggests that the government will follow up this perspective in further work on the regulation change. Finally, I have a comment on a conflict theme in this and similar cases, namely that the government's proposal involves the early implementation of expected EEA rules. For the majority of the Committee, the most important thing is to avoid a long-standing constitutional retention or postponement of the inclusion of these acts, and we must ensure that Norwegian financial institutions are subject to rules that correspond as closely as possible to the rules applicable to foreign financial undertakings in the EU. The majority of the Committee therefore endorses the government's proposal, but I would also like to stress that, if the final decision of the EEA Committee were to deviate significantly from the draft of the proposal, the matter must of course be referred back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e650	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good review of the matter. The implementation of the EU banking package includes, inter alia: the objective of reducing the risk of crises in the financial system and reducing the negative consequences of a financial crisis. EU rules are based on recommendations from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the Financial Stability Board. The preparation of the proposal has been carried out by a working group appointed by the Ministry of Finance and chaired by the Financial Supervisory Authority. Finance Norway and a number of Norwegian banks have been the reference group for their work. The banking package consists of amendments to existing capital requirements and crisis management legislation already implemented in Norwegian law and essentially involves some adjustments to the existing legislation. The implementation of the banking package requires – as the rapporteur said – amendments to the Financial Corporations Act, the Securities Trading Act and the Financial Supervision Act and includes legal rules based on expected EU law. The purpose of adopting parts of the package, the regulations, at that time, i.e. by pre-consenting and early implementation of expected EEA rules, is to enable the rules contained in the banking package to enter into force in Norway as soon as possible after the entry into force of the EU. This is important both for the financial industry and for the Norwegian authorities. It is important in order to ensure the highest possible level of regulation for Norwegian and non-resident financial corporations. With the implementation of the banking package, so-called smaller and non-complex banks — in fact, it is a majority of Norwegian banks — will have eased reporting and disclosure requirements. They will also be able to relate to a simpler version of the new requirement for stable financing. Overall, this can make it easier for many savings banks. The changes in regulatory reporting and disclosure requirements are important for supervisory authorities as well. The extended SME discount is one of the reliefs resulting from the banking package and the rules in force in the EU last summer. All SME loans are covered by the extended discount, while the discount is now slightly lower for loans above 25 million. kr. Norwegian banks will not be able to use the extended SME discount until the decision of the EEA Committee has entered into force. Therefore, it is so important for Norway to bring into force rapidly the changes in the capital law of the EEA Agreement. So here we are dependent on the progress of the other EEA/EFTA countries, so it is important and very good that the Minister of Finance is in dialogue with our other EEA partners on the need for an early entry into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e661	I thank the case rapporteur, Mr Bjørdal, for the work he has done on the matter, and for his comments. It is quite right, as the representative Bjørdal says, that this matter is being dealt with in a number of cases in which the Stortinget takes a decision before a case has been dealt with in the EEA Committee. The representative Bjørdal and – I registered – the representative Agdestein refer to the expected EEA rules. It seems almost as if the majority almost find it a bit annoying that the Central Party will address this issue once and for all in relation to how we, as the National Assembly of the country, deal with matters that affect the kind of space we as a nation have for action in important areas. There is definitely a lot of importance in the legislation that the Centre Party is committed to discussing in a proper way. However, until the matter is dealt with in the EEA Committee, we do not fully know what the Norwegian obligations will mean. After all, it is the whole point of consideration in the EEA Committee – which is the EEA Joint Body between the EU and the EFTA countries in the EEA on the other hand – to clarify the framework for Norwegian participation, in our case in a concrete EEA Decision. I record that, among other things, the rapporteur-general: says that one will avoid long-term constitutional reservations. The centre party is entitled to deal quickly with the matter in Stortinget when a decision has been taken in the EEA Committee, but it is important that we do things in the right order, just so that we see what kind of consequence it actually has. I note that the representative Bjørdal himself takes a reservation that if what we are basing today, and what is the decision in the EEA Committee, were to deviate significantly, one must nevertheless return. What the representative Bjørdal puts in a significant deviation, however, I am a little uncertain about; I cannot see that it has been specified and specified in the votes of the majority. So the wise way to deal with it is to take it in the right order: to clarify what are the EU rules, what is the framework for Norwegian participation through a decision in the EEA Committee, and then to deal with it at the national Parliament. I take up the proposal from the Center Party, SV and Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e674	Let me thank you for a quick and good discussion in the Financial Committee, a good presentation from the case-rapporteur to whom I can join, and a thank you to the broad majority in Stortinget, who will ensure that we can get this in place once everything has been dealt with. The legislative proposal implements the EU's so-called 2019 banking package in Norwegian law. The package makes significant changes to central legislation that is already part of the EEA Agreement, namely the Capital Requirements Regulation, the Capital Requirements Directive and the Crisis Management Directive. The purpose of the banking package is to further reduce the risk of a crisis in the financial system and reduce the negative consequences of a financial crisis. The regulatory framework provides regulatory relief for smaller and non-complex banks. The government’s proposal implies that most banks in Norway are part of this group and will therefore benefit from the relief. The other legislative proposal essentially involves minor regulatory adjustments, while facilitating the implementation of regulatory changes. The proposal for implementing the banking package is based on an investigation carried out by the Financial Supervisory Authority in which Norway’s Bank, the Banking Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Finance have also participated. Many hearing bodies have underlined that Norwegian rules in the financial market area should be as consistent as possible with EU legislation. The banking package has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement but is expected to be incorporated into several parts during 2021 and 2022. It is important that Norwegian and foreign banks are given equal rules as quickly as possible. In addition to promoting the legislative proposal, we have therefore requested prior consent to the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the two regulations contained in the banking package. Accordingly, Norwegian rules implementing the Regulations may enter into force upon the entry into force of the EEA Committee Decision and the SME discount can then be used immediately by Norwegian banks. The Government will return to Stortinget as soon as possible and request consent to the inclusion of the two directives in the banking package in the EEA. The legislative proposal facilitates the implementation of the EU banking package, which will contribute to more robust banks, more efficient crisis management and more proportionate requirements for smaller banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e690	The Labour Party is behind the plurality in this matter. There's no doubt about it. But there are still a couple of questions that I should like to ask were a little better explained in the proposition, and which I invite the Council of State to answer here. I admit that it is of a technical nature, and therefore will give the Council of State the opportunity to come back with a written answer to supplement the question if necessary. The first concerns this system importance buffer proposed by the ministry to be between 1 and 3 pst. but with the possibility to set it higher than 3 pst. in exceptional cases. In fact, the Ministry’s proposal restricts the national space for action contained in the EEA rules. My first question is therefore whether the Council of State is entirely confident that it makes sense to intercept the possibility that in the future a situation may arise where a system importance buffer of between 0 and 1 pst. will be a level of concern that justifies the requirement, as the EEA rules open.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e697	Here I think I will accept the invitation from the representative to give a written answer to that question. I think it is important that that kind of question gets a perfectly precise answer. I would like to ask that a written question be sent to me, so I will give a good and complete answer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e702	Now I suspect that I will get a written answer to my next question as well, but that is so far all right, when it's open for it. It is clear that there are some questions in this proposition that, even if they are of a technical nature, they are also of great importance, for example. for institutions such as the Municipal Bank, which is concerned about the government's approach to the systemic importance buffer: that one deflects the possibility of putting it on between 0 and 1 pst. This is legislative treatment that has an impact on Norwegian businesses. For this it is important that it is well lit. It's the same with crisis action plans as it says in the proposition. National systemically important entities where crisis selection is not established shall no longer be subject to approval by the Ministry. The Ministry of Education is now only to be briefed. I would therefore also ask whether the Council of State is entirely sure that it makes sense for the Ministry no longer to approve such emergency action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e711	Let me first stress that the proposition is based on thorough assessments by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Norwegian Bank and the Ministry of Finance, and we have also received good input into the process and consultation. I think it is important that we have a clear role sharing. The financial supervision is responsible for the supervision of banks and financial institutions, and I am sure that it is a right and necessary decision that the Financial Supervisory Authority is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e717	The centre party has over time been concerned about the introduction of the SME discount, which is important for both Norwegian banks and Norwegian business. We can't see that there's something that should be formally in the way that it should already have been introduced. I record that the Council of State is involved in the SMB discount – and it is also a representative of the government parties, the representative Agdestein, with a concrete reference here. Is there something that formally prevents Norway from introducing the SME discount today, regardless of the decision taken by Stortinget in this case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e722	The centre party is, in substance, at the side of the discussion on these matters because the centre party is against the EEA Agreement. I believe it is important, perhaps particularly in this type of issue, that we have a strong EU and that Norway has close cooperation and coordination and coordination with EEA countries. This is important for financial stability; it is important for the non-discrimination of banks. We are part of this system, and then it is important that we act in coordination with the other EEA countries. It is a challenge related to authorisation in Liechtenstein. That is why I have written a letter of 11 May to the Prime Minister in Liechtenstein, and I hope we can get these adjustments in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e731	So the chord change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e738	Only a few comments on the Görlsvik point out that things should be through the EEA Committee before we implement them: In this case, as the Council of State said, it has done a thorough preparatory work on that legislation, and it is probably also reasonably clear in the EU. It is one of the many delays we have in implementation. As far as treatment in the EEA Committee is concerned as a requirement before we can do anything in the Stortinget, the Centre Party has also had a slightly different practice. We have now received proposals from the government to pre-accept that the government can join the 11 programmes in the EU. Some of them have voted against the Center Party, so they have voted to send them back to the government, even though that would mean that we couldn't be there from the beginning, and thus lose the ability to influence the practical design of them. However, with regard to the space programme earlier this week, the vote was taken after the proposal to send it back was defeated. And when it came to Erasmus and Horizon, there was no disagreement. There, both the Centre Party and the SV voted to give authority to the government. In the past, there have also been examples of directives that have not been in the EEA Committee that have produced legislative changes in Norway. An example is a law that came into force on 3 July this year, when a number of disposable plastic products were banned from use in Norway. The legislation was amended in 2018 and originated from an EU Directive which has not yet been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. There is therefore no new practice being introduced here, although it must of course be reasonably clear what we are going to decide on, as the representative Gielsvik pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e751	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 8 and 9. At the request of the Financial Committee, the matter shall be referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling. 10 and 11 hosts treat together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e782	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be repeated replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e789	The case concerns the implementation of several EEA-relevant regulations in the area of mutual funds in Norwegian law, the strengthening of the sanctioning and reaction possibilities of the Financial Supervisory Authority in the event of breaches of the Securities Fund Act and the AIF Act and the authorisation of their inclusion in the EEA Agreement. Although the impact of these changes is likely to be low in the Norwegian capital market, it will represent positive additions to business finance, inter alia. for small and medium-sized enterprises in the start-up phase. I recall what was said in the consultation on the financial market notification, namely the importance of good access to capital for business. The Regulations regulate three different types of funds: a venture capital fund, a social entrepreneurship fund and a long-term European investment fund. The venture capital fund is designed to promote growth and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises, while the Social Entrepreneurship Fund is intended to increase the growth of enterprises with a social purpose, i.e. capital for enterprises that create measurable and positive social effects and deliver services and goods that provide positive social benefits and realise the social purpose of the enterprise. The long-term European Investment Fund shall invest in projects of a longer-term nature, such as infrastructure and research and development. The regulatory framework requires which investments funds can make in order to call themselves venture funds, social entrepreneurship funds or long-term investment funds respectively. Funds which comply with the requirements of the Regulations cross-border in the EEA area under a notification scheme may be marketed as such types of funds. The notification mechanism is a simplification compared to the current rules on cross-border distribution of funds. The Regulations are implemented in Norwegian law by incorporation, i.e. after its wording, as amended by the Decision of the EEA Joint Committee. The majority of the Committee supports this. The proposal also proposes new rules on the instruments of financial supervision in the event of breaches of the Securities Fund Act and the AIF Act. More effective instruments can strengthen compliance with legislation and thus also increase confidence in the mutual fund market in general. These changes are in line with developments in EEA law and other financial market legislation. The legislative proposal also provides a basis for the Financial Supervisory Authority to obtain or request the submission of a police certificate in relation to the verification of suitability and standard requirements. I record that the Senterpartiet and SV believe the way the legislation is implemented is wrong, but they do not suggest alternative ways to do so either. I assume that they themselves explain it in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e808	The purpose of the proposals contained in this proposal, i.e. changes in the field of mutual funds, is to contribute to a well-functioning fund market with certainty for both investors and the market, and not least to simplify and ensure access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises across borders in the EEA. The securities market, in this case known as venture funds and social entrepreneurship funds, is an important complement to ordinary bank loans in order to ensure business access to capital both for start-up projects, infrastructure, research and business conversion processes. Requirements have been developed to govern the types of investment qualifying for inclusion in the three different types of funds. On the way out of the corona crisis, such sources of funding will be a particularly important tool for creating more new jobs in the private sector. The regulations are implemented in Norwegian law as such, i.e. without being reworded, but they are available in an official Norwegian translation. The advantage of this is that all those covered by the Regulations in the EEA territory relate to exactly the same legal source. With regard to the MMF regulations, the aim is to contribute to financial stability, i.e. to avoid Norway becoming a haven for setting up funds that could pose a risk to financial markets. It is not expected, as the rapporteur said, that the new rules will have special consequences for Norwegian money market funds. Financial supervision will have more instruments in the event of a breach of the law. The aim is to increase overall confidence in the mutual fund market and one of the proposals is that suitability and reputation may be required by the submission of a police certificate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e819	It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that the Central Party is not part of the majority in this case. But we present an alternative way of dealing with the matter. In concrete terms, we propose that the proposal be sent back to the government, and then it is the government that has to review and propose the concrete legislative changes that have to be made in order to implement such legislation. I note that the majority believe that such a process would be almost unmanageable, that there would be at least 150 new provisions that had to be included in the relevant laws. But that is precisely why it might be a point for a person to make that process, to see the extent of the change in existing Norwegian legislation, new legislation that one has to deal with, that it becomes clear. This has also been taken up by hearing bodies, for example from the Association of Advocates, which indicate that the mere adoption of a referral may give rise to interpretative doubts, as there may be confusion between the legislation adopted only by reference and existing legislation in this area. This is precisely what has been at the heart of, among other things. in the Nav scandal you've had. I note that there is still a discussion between Norway and ESA in that case. One was the practice that Norway had, which was not in line with EEA legislation, and which has affected many people over the years, yes, in fact, as ESA says, all the way back to the EEA Agreement entered into force in 1994. But the second is that ESA not only points out that practices should be changed, they also point out that one has to amend the paragraphs of Norwegian law that are obviously written in a way that is not in line with the common legislation – in order to be clear what kind of legislation Norway is obliged to adopt. Then one can discuss for and against both the EEA Agreement and different provisions, but when one first takes into account the provisions of the EEA Agreement, it is important that it is clear to those companies and persons around Norway who are required to comply with the provisions. One says there are small consequences. Well, the economic and administrative implications are not exactly very clear, for example in relation to the new tasks of the Financial Supervisory Authority. So to the ELTIF Regulation, which opens up marketing to non-professional operators. These are products that are both of a long-term nature and difficult to market. It is also stated in the proposition that investors ‘generally cannot demand redemption within the life of the fund’. Initially, this is a product that is particularly poorly suited to non-professional investors, and thus should at least set a clear framework for marketing, such as: The Consumer Council has called for this. I would like to take up with that the proposal of which the Central Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e836	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e841	In this proposition, the government promotes proposals for amendments to the Securities Fund Act, the so-called AIF Act, the Alternative Investment Fund Management Act and the Financial Undertakings Act. The proposal in the proposal implements regulations in the securities field under Norwegian law. The Government is therefore also asking for consent to the approval of the EEA Committee decisions on their inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The Regulations on European long-term investment funds, European social entrepreneurship funds and European venture capital funds constitute a legal framework for cross-border investment instruments. If the funds meet the requirements laid down for them, they may be marketed as a fund for those purposes. It could facilitate access to capital for certain types of enterprises. Investments through the capital market can play a significant role in financing, inter alia: business conversion, infrastructure and research, as well as start-up enterprises. The proposal also proposes the implementation of the MMF regulation. The objective is to contribute to financial stability. It is important that Norway does not become a haven for setting up funds that could pose risks to financial markets. The proposal also reviews the options of the Financial Supervisory Authority to react to breaches of the fund law. Rules are proposed to bring the infringement fee rules into line with the Securities Fund Act and the AIF Act. Provision is also made for the imposition of an infringement fee for infringements of Fund regulations. Following the promotion of the proposition, the Supreme Court has argued in a judgment that, as interpreted by EMD, the objective liability for corporate sanctions resulting from Section 27 of the Criminal Code is not compatible with the ECHR. In a letter to the Ministry, the Legal Service has explained the importance of provisions on the charge of infringements. I refer you to my letter to the Presidentship of Stortingen on this, which is attached to the position of the Financial Committee. Furthermore, it is proposed to prohibit the holding of management functions if a person is considered unfit to perform such functions. These proposed changes will make the system of reaction to infringements more effective. It will not only increase compliance with the legislation but also strengthen confidence in the fund market in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e867	It concerns the part of the case concerning the ELTIF Regulation. It concerns products in which the AIFM itself decides whether it can be marketed to so-called non-professional investors. These are the complex products that are difficult to market and where, as is the case, the investors ‘generally cannot demand redemption within the life of the fund’. There are significant challenges to its marketing vis-à-vis non-professional operators. At least one should have very clear rules relating to marketing in that area. There is something that the Consumer Council has addressed in its consultation on the matter. Why has one government not complied with the input that the Consumer Council has made to such products?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e872	Let me just stress that there are important issues they are travelling, and that is also something we will consider in the further work. Let me just stress that when marketing to non-professional investors, the increased demands for the fund occur. This shall ensure that only fund shares that are considered suitable also for non-professional operators shall be marketed and offered to them. The Government has proposed that infringements of those provisions may also be punishable by an infringement fee despite the fact that the Regulation itself does not require it. As I said, let me just stress that these are questions that we will follow closely in the coming time. I believe that it is well taken care of in what we have now put in place, but here it is a continuous development, and we have to make sure that we also care for non-professional investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e877	I thank you for your answer and for your attention here in the government. This is, of course, a challenge in several areas already today, both from concessional actors operating towards non-professional actors and from non-concessional but non-concessional actors in Norwegian financial markets, and where the Financial Supervisory Authority is currently unable to be close enough. So now one comes into a new area of legislation that is demanding, and where the Consumer Council is also concerned that one should have clear rules for marketing. I thank you for the answer and hope you have a particular awareness of both the way products are marketed and the way they are supervised and controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e883	I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e888	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e908	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, there will be repeated replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e915	In Norway, the proportion as own housing is large, and it has been a political goal throughout the post-war period that the most people should be able to own their own housing. In the two proposals that have now been dealt with, I think there is a cross-political objective in this Chamber that one should take care of it. This policy has meant that many have had safe and sustainable housing conditions and that one has taken part in the overall development of the housing market. Although the proportion of people who rent housing has increased by 1 percentage point since 2015, it is still above 76pst. who owns his own dwelling. There is a broad agreement that this main line, with a large part of it owning its own dwelling, should be fixed. At the same time, it is important that we have a well-functioning rental market for people who, for different reasons, like being in different stages of life, need to rent a dwelling. Superiorising the housing market in Norway is well balanced. The proportion of tenants is large, and the debt ratio of Norwegian households is within the defense. But there are several things that are worth following, and it may be especially true of the situation that some first-time buyers are in in the big cities. The combination of high housing growth and high rental prices may increase first-time buyers' competition from landlords on the smallest apartments in the press areas. It's among the youngest we find the largest share that rents a dwelling, and it's also the largest in this group of tenants. Since 2015, the proportion of people in the 20s has increased by just over 2 percentage points, and there is a development that is necessary to follow. So it also includes the image that the statistics show that the proportion of first-time buyers has gone up a little in the last year, and that age remains somewhat stable. The big political grip to dampen some of the big price growth that you have seen has been the housing loan regulation that came in 2015 after a high growth in housing prices and in the debt of households. This regulation has been important to mitigate general growth and has been particularly effective in the areas of the press. Furthermore, a number of other changes in both the tax and the tax system that I think have been beneficial, perhaps in particular that one has changed the value of the wealth tax so that it is now more profitable to invest in a local enterprise than to invest in a secondary building in the big cities. In the future, it is important that we ensure a balance in the housing market between the tenants and the owners. There are several proposals presented in these 8 proposals. There aren't any of those who get multiples, but I feel that the party has largely expressed its primary policy in this field through the setting, and I think the debate will also show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e930	For the Workers' Party it is absolutely central that everyone should have the right to a safe and good housing. The Norwegian housing model is based on people buying and owning their own housing. At the same time, there is no doubt that there are major economic differences in the housing market, both geographically and between individual households. In recent years housing prices have risen sharply, and it has been harder for many to establish themselves in their own housing. The difference between owning and renting your own dwelling is becoming one of the greatest differences in society. We are concerned that the housing should be a place to live, not a speculation object, and a forward-looking housing policy must help to smooth out such differences. At the same time, we are dependent on a well-functioning and regulated leasing market. Therefore, we need to strengthen the rights of those who rent a dwelling and are in a state of stress. The House Bank has ours and will continue to be an important player in housing policy. To reach the climate targets, new residential areas need to bring their inhabitants efficient and climate-friendly to and from work. New housing areas need to take care of climate and nature considerations when it comes to the development itself, transport solutions, material use and reuse solutions. We want a more environmentally friendly construction industry, so that we take a more climate-friendly view of housing policy in the future. Furthermore, we are concerned that housing policy can build bridges between generations. The right to an active and worthy old age is closely related to the housing situation. Over this ageing period, the Labour Party has put forward a long series of proposals to address the challenges in the housing market, and we have recently presented an ambitious programme to improve the Norwegian housing model in our party programme. Our main priorities are new opportunities to enter the housing market, to facilitate the construction of more buildings, more environmentally friendly construction and a good building environment. This policy is a holistic alternative to the two representatives from the Progress Party and the SV that Stortinget has to deal with in this matter. So we're not necessarily against all the minority proposals in the vote, but as the case-speaker did well, most of the parties are on their primary policy, and so are we. We see it as most neat to refer to our budget options here in Stortinget and to our party program for a comprehensive overview of our housing policy. Therefore, we are not in favour of the proposals in the configuration now, with the exception of proposal No. So this is going to be 1, which is what we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e943	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e948	I would first of all like to thank the proposers for raising an important debate. Housing policy has been and is going to be one of the most important issues for very many people in Norway in the future, both toddlers' parents, newborns, people who have just come to work, or are in other stages of change in life. From living at home to moving out and on its own, from being a student to getting their first job or changing the municipality in which you live – there are many transformation phases in life that often make housing policy important to people. I'd say the Norwegian housing model is good. It works well. Eight out of ten owner-occupied dwellings. I really believe that the success of the Norwegian housing model can be traced back to getting rid of the state over-management that marked the housing market for very many years. Families with low incomes did not have a chance of entering the housing market unless they could pay well with cash under the table. There is nothing we should want to go back to, and I sometimes notice tendencies towards that in the representative proposals, especially from the left. The government has worked along three important lines of housing policy after we took over in a situation where there was a great lag. Firstly, the legislation has been simplified. It makes it easier to build good housing and think more life-style phases. At the same time, we have ensured that there are fewer objections from the state. The number of objections raised by the State that could stop housing projects has fallen considerably, which is why the building pace has increased. We have also worked with the other axis – this is the offer page. The second axis is the demand side. There's one of the most important things we've done, the mortgage policy. It has helped to dampen the price pressure. Then there are a number of measures in social housing policy. We must not forget that either. The house bank has received the funds the House Bank needs. We are no longer in a situation where the House Bank is almost an alternative for people who should really go to a regular bank. We are not in a situation now that the House Bank is running out of money long before the end of the year, so I believe that we have found a good balance there. We have also strengthened the rental-to-owner arrangements. These are good social housing measures. Then we have to remember one thing in these debates. We need to distinguish between press areas and the rest of the country. From the left, there is often an eagerness to set up taxes and to have state control because there is price pressure in densely populated areas. It can't go beyond the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e963	Nordics are self-owners – not everyone, but very many. That's the result of a wild policy that's been successful. For many, investing in housing is the first big investment they really make, and it can be challenging for many to be able to finance such a large investment. There are also some tenants, and they may be renting in different stages of life because they have slightly different needs, but whether you are self-owner or tenant, it is essential that there are enough dwellings and enough homes available on the market. The housing prices are high. This is unfortunate, especially for young people entering the housing market for the first time, but it is not necessarily a problem for those entering the market. If some parties believe that the solution is more state, more regulation, the Progress Party believes the opposite is true. The solution is less state and less regulation. One of the most important is measures to reduce construction costs, prevent policy-making land shortages and actually allow the market to build what is required. We've had a very large housing growth in the last few years. The share of single dwellings goes down a little bit, and more apartments are being built. The challenge is that there are apartments that have the highest square meter price in the housing market. Housing prices are the result of supply and demand. Although housing production has increased, the supply side is too low. We have a lot of land in Norway, but there's not enough land regulated for housing. The area shortage is actually politically created and is due to, among other things, State and regional overarching of municipal plans. This contributes to centralisation and contributes to price pressure. The party of progress will help to make it possible for even more people to own their own housing, and then we have to do something about the tax burden on the dwelling. At least we don't have to arrange for it to become a purely fiscal object, and we need fewer regulations and bureaucratic opposition processes to make it easier to facilitate development. Then there's someone who wants to go back again to a greater degree of regulation. I refer to the proposal that Mr SV has made. If there's any story showing us, it's at least not the solution to getting a better functioning housing market in Norway. When we had different regulations, we also had money under the table. Then we've got the deregulated market, and we have a free housing market that works well, although the threshold for entering the housing market is too high and too many too high. We can do something about that if we're planning on building more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e976	Would you like to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e981	Yes, I'm addressing the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e986	The representative Hans Andreas Limi then drew up the proposals he referred to. What would this house have done without a president!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e993	The centre party is concerned that people should be able to live, work and live a good life throughout Norway. Then we have to provide jobs around the whole of Norway, we have to provide good services close to people, we have to make a settlement with the powerful and politically driven centralisation of today's government and the support party of the Progress Party, and we have to ensure a well-functioning housing policy in rural and urban areas. There are already a number of people who have talked about urban pressure problems related to the housing market, which obviously create major challenges for many to be able to find a home today. However, for many around Norway, finding housing in scattered areas is also a major challenge. If one looks at a survey carried out by the Societal Economic Analysis, it first shows that two thirds of the enterprises in the districts are struggling with the recruitment of labour, and of those companies it is about. a quarter that says housing shortages are one of the main challenges. Why? Well, that's because in a number of areas, new homes are almost not being built today, which helps to reinforce the consequences of an already downward spiral in a centralisation process. In my neighbouring municipality Ullensaker has approx. half of the dwellings have been built since 2000, while in municipalities such as Gamvik, Vadsø or Værøy is 1-2 pst. of the dwellings built after the year 2000. One of the challenges is that when people build themselves a house and get a place to live, construction costs in many places will exceed the expected market value. That means that it's a challenge for many to meet the equity requirement, but also that if you look at selling the dwelling at some point, you're left with a dwelling that has a much lower value than that for which you built it. The centre party is also concerned that we need to strengthen housing policy in Norway. We have to go back to a social housing policy. We need to ensure that the Husbank is a tool to contribute top funding in the districts for housing construction, but also to contribute to the rental market and to contribute to adapting existing buildings for housing purposes. We need a housing policy that is better adapted to the country in which we are part, and we need a policy that facilitates growth and development throughout Norway – that will also be good for the housing situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1005	Norway has one of Europe’s most deregulated housing markets. After leaving almost all the management of the housing sector to the market for decades after decades and stripping housing policy other than for the most disadvantaged, we have got a housing market that reinforces the differences between people in Norway. It is particularly dramatic between those on the inside and those on the outside, between those who are allowed to participate in galloping price growth and large tax subsidies, and those who do not receive any of the parts and are additionally offered a rental market with high prices and high unforeseeability. Between 2003 and 2019 housing prices have increased by 163 p.m., more than twice as much as wage growth in the same period, and that does not help to cut out dinners or not to buy new jeans, because you cannot save yourself to housing, the market will usually run from one. In Oslo, growth has been three times as high as national growth, but also in the rest of the country, price growth has been formidable and too high. It's not random who's outside the housing market. The least-served are those who also own the least, and this development has been reinforced in recent years. Through the nurse's index, we see that a normal nurse's salary person can afford only 2.5 pst. of the dwellings in Oslo. In Norway, very much of the housing policy is concentrated around the housing owners, but then it is forgotten that the housing stock is very unevenly distributed. A quarter of all the Nordics don't own their own house, and only 14 pst. of the 10th percent serving at least owns the owner-occupied dwelling, while the total of 92 pst. Of the 10ths that make the most, do it. The tax benefits are targeted at those on the inside. There is a valuation discount in the property tax, there is an interest rebate on the income tax or no tax on the sale and rental of parts of owner-occupied dwellings. All of this brings benefits to those who have entered the housing market – paid by those outside, through the tax system. In a normal year, those who own houses and cabins receive over 30 billion. kr in tax rebate by the State. In reality, there is a transfer from those who have the least to those who have the most. In the setting that we are discussing today, SV promotes several proposals to start work on travelling a new Norwegian housing policy. We want to change the tax system, regulate the way housing loans are provided, build a non-commercial housing sector and create a housing plan for the whole country, because it is time to make housing a welfare asset again – and not a speculatory object – and to reinforce an ownership line that is under pressure. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1016	The representative, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1021	It is true that housing policy and housing legislation in Norway are very market-oriented. I think it is very good that so many people own their own home in Norway. It's positive, and that's something we're going to fence about, but it's true that we need to reduce some of the big differences that are between those on the inside and the owner, and those on the outside and the rent, and that it's too hard to get into the housing market. From the left side, we're going to see if we're going to reduce some of the benefits of owning, by gradually reducing the interest rate deduction. This must be done gradually, so as not to punish those who have just entered the housing market. We also want to see if the equity requirement for first-time buyers should be removed. This will be issues in the next growing-up period. Then we need to further develop a larger and more varied rental market, where it is also possible to look at – not a non-commercial market, but that we have more players, whether foundations, relationships or companies, who develop a rental market where the profit level is not the same. Here it is possible to look at how this is done in several European countries. We also have to see if we can improve the rights of tenants. As pointed out earlier, it is important to maintain good and offensive housing social measures such as increased housing support, which the government has followed up for a longer time, and also to look at other measures that we have put in place, such as: free core time in kindergartens, which is important for many, better rental-to-owner schemes and start-up loans. There are also several measures. In terms of the quality of the housing structure itself, we need to stick to it. We need to build more climate friendly, and we need to build good living environments where we need to take care of the older settlement on which we build and where we have more climate friendly construction when we build. Then we have to take care of the common areas we have; these are the most important democratic arenas we have. When we're going to build homes, we have to do it with a quality that we don't degrade nature. When we go into the next period, one of the important discussions will be about the planning and building law should go back to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. It should. At the same time: land-use planning should be returned to the Energy and Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1038	The growth of housing prices in 2020 was predicted to be moderate. Then came the pandemic, and we got record low interest rates and fast housing price growth. Then the housing prices went up by a total of 8 pst. in the country, everywhere, as a whole, and by 10 pst. in Oslo. Cities like Drammen and Bodø are now experiencing record high housing prices. If you work like that. Nurse, lives in Oslo and wants to enter the housing market. 3 pst. of the dwellings for sale. The rest of them are too expensive. There is something fundamentally wrong with our housing policy when people with very common incomes cannot afford to find a home in the city in which they work. The price gap in the housing market occurs because different governments have closed down housing policy over the last 30 to 40 years and given all power to the commercial market and to large, searchful housing investors. We have to take back control of housing policy. Red wants a housing policy for most people, not a housing party for those who already have the most. Our goal is that everyone should have the right to a good dwelling close to where they work, which they can afford without getting debt to far above the pipe. In addition, we need to combat the huge geographical divisions created by today's housing market. Today, one can either buy in an unregulated, commercial market or rent for sky-high market rental. If we are to have a fair housing policy, alternatives to the commercial housing market are needed. That's what Red proposes. We want to create a non-commercial housing sector where both prices and turnover are controlled, so that ordinary people can make housing live in and also housing costs to live with. In that case, the House Bank must also support a non-commercial housing sector. We see this in many countries around us. We see that they have a non-commercial housing sector. There are hundreds of thousands of Danes living in so-called non-profit housing, where they have regulation of prices and good quality housing. The alternative is to get a commercial price wall traveled around the press areas that close nurses, bus drivers and others with regular incomes away from being able to buy a normal dwelling. A housing policy is really needed in Norway. It is completely absent today, but Red is at the forefront of repatriating that policy. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1051	The representative Bears Moxnes has drawn up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1056	It is little that pleases a Right-wing politician more than that the whole of political Norway stands up for self-ownership democracy and celebrates the Norwegian housing model, where most people own their own homes. 82 pst. in Norway, owns its own home. In addition, it is important to have a well-functioning rental market. It is also gratifying that both the proportion and the number of first-time buyers have increased in the last four years. The average age of young people and young people who buy their first dwelling in cities is between 26 and 29 years old, and there is no sign that they are now buying less or relatively cheaper dwellings than before. Over the last few years, the government has addressed four important issues. One is that it went too slow. It was important to get speed on the housing construction. Going back to the red-green government in 2010–2011, it was completed between 18 000 and 20,000 dwellings per year. In our government period, about 30,000 dwellings have been completed per year. It is also the case that over time, one demand was made on the other that animalized the construction of dwellings. We have carried out major simplifications in the Planning and Building Act and in technical regulations. We have also had a worrying debt growth in Norway. It's still a challenge. It's increased something in the last year. At the same time, debt growth is now less than it was before the introduction of the Housing Loan Regulation. It has been important, and it will continue to be important for a period to come. In addition, there was a need to strengthen housing social policy. We have. We have increased the tax on secondary housing so that secondary housing should not be a speculation object. We want those who have extra money to invest them in Norwegian jobs and not speculate in extra homes. We have also targeted the tools in the Husbank so that they are more targeted at those who have long-standing challenges in the housing market, and we have arranged for more people to go from rental to ownership. These are important issues that the government will also work on in the future. So there's an interesting question about whether the pandemic has changed the housing market. For the first time in 20 years, we see – the representative Gülsvik – that there is a net relocation from Oslo, in the last quarter of 2020. We also see that for the next four largest municipalities there has been a large relocation. It will be interesting to see whether this is a consequence of the pandemic, whether it leads to changes in the housing market, and what changes it will lead to. That's something we have to keep track of in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1065	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1070	Of course, it is gratifying that people move from Oslo to Akershus or other places in Norway, for example. One of the challenges I pointed out in my post is that yes, housing is being built in Norway, but in many municipalities around Norway, too few homes have been built over time in relation to the need, and it is also demanding for businesses to attract labour. Governments say that measures have been targeted in the House Bank, linked to those most difficult over time. However, for some, it is important to be able to obtain housing in the districts — even though one may not be defined as being difficult over time — that one has targeted tools through the Husbank also to contribute to more housing in the districts. Would the government be positive about twisting the instruments so that a greater degree of room for housing throughout Norway, so that people who want to move out of Oslo or other big cities, actually have a housing offer that can meet their needs, out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1077	Of course, housing facilities should be provided throughout Norway. It's a municipal responsibility. The centre party has power in many municipalities and has to take a considerable responsibility if it is not built enough dwellings. As Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I have carried out major simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building, helped to reduce the number of objections, and made it possible to speed up housing. I believe that the target we have made of the Husbank's tools is very important. The answer is not to lubricate everything thinly. We need to ensure that the homeless, those with long-standing challenges in the housing market, get more and better help. We have done so, both through housing support, through the start-up loan scheme and by facilitating better arrangements for rent-to-ownership. It helps us to reduce the differences in the housing market, and we must continue that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1086	Arrangements such as rent-to-ownership are very important. Strengthening the housing support system is particularly important, much more so than what the current government has been willing to do. The centre party has taken up and made proposals to increase the lending framework of the House Bank and to strengthen the House Bank as an important social housing tool. But to what goes on in housing throughout Norway: Yes, of course, municipalities have an important role, but the challenge many places are not that it is not regulated for housing purposes. The question is, after all, whether the individual wishing to establish himself actually sees that he can afford to do so when the construction costs far exceed what is expected market value in the future. There may be, among other things: a top-level funding scheme in the Husbank is one instrument, which aims to help meet a challenge that one sees in very many municipalities in Norway. Is the government willing to assess such a targeted scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1093	I believe that we have made good and necessary changes in the House Bank. The house bank should not be a bank for everything. We have a well-functioning commercial banking market. The primary task of the household bank shall be related to the social housing policy. Politics is also about putting something first. For me, it is vital that we have a solid and strong housing social policy. We contribute to this through the target corrections we have done within the House Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1101	Reality is rather that we have a housing policy in Norway today that is – yes, extremely narrowed to the most disadvantaged, while at the same time we have a housing policy in reality for those who have entered the housing market, and where the figures show that there are people who have far more high incomes than low incomes. Those who fall in between here are people with normal working-class incomes who don't have rich parents, and they don't have a housing policy for, because they don't get the help they need to get into the housing market, they don't get the chance to take part in the huge benefits that it is. Does the Minister of Finance see that we have got a housing market that has gone from equalising differences in Norway to a housing market that reinforces differences in Norway, because there is so much distance between those entering the housing market and those outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1108	The fact that we've gone from time to time, I'm more in doubt, because the reality is that both the number and the proportion of first-time buyers have increased. That means that there are several young people entering the housing market, and the average age is, as I said in my post, between 26 and 29 years old. I do not think it is particularly long to wait to buy their first dwelling. But yes, there are challenges in the housing market, and there I hope that the representative Kaski also addresses the searchlight against the Municipality of Oslo. Oslo Municipality needs to build more homes. Oslo Municipality has to build several of the dwellings requested in the housing market. It also means several smaller apartments. We have made sure to increase the tax on secondary dwellings because we saw that people with good income and good wealth bought both two and three dwellings to rent out. It pushed other first-time buyers out of the housing market. I think it has helped to make things easier in that part of the market. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs again]] But yes, there are still challenges
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1115	The President recalls that speaking time also applies to councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1120	It is, with respect to reporting, not the Oslo municipality that builds dwellings, because a consequence of today's deregulated housing policy is that we have left this entirely to private developers. Oslo Municipality has regulated mass of plots for development, but which are unbuilt because the private developers do not consider it sufficiently profitable to build there. The councils referred to the housing law of the red-green government in 2010–2011. Then we had a financial crisis that stopped all housing in this country, and we saw the price consequences of it in 2016. This is the consequence when we leave all of this to the market, and that is what SV is trying to fix. What I'm concerned about, and I just have to say, is that the Minister of Finance won't admit that the housing market is increasing the differences between people. Yes, we can look at the proportion of first-time buyers, but these are first-time buyers who get enough and quite a lot of help from their parents to get in. Those that fall between the chairs here, those that stand outside, and for which there is no policy, that's for example. nurses in their 30s who do not have their parents. What will the government do for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1129	It has nothing to do with admitting or not admitting. Of course, there are challenges in the housing market. There's no doubt about it. A lot of equity is required, and with the housing prices we have now, there are significant challenges. But when I referred to 2010–2011, that was the number of completed dwellings. It was 18,000 completed in 2010. They had to be started quite many years before that, and also before the financial crisis. We've been able to speed up the building, and over the last few years, the number has been about 30,000. I think maybe one of the most important tools we can use is to get the rent-to-own system to a much larger extent. I have little faith that we will regulate youth into the housing market. Then I think we're doing them a bear service, because that doesn't make you enjoy the rise that's in the housing market. Good schemes for owner-occupied rentals also enable people with little equity to enter the housing market and gradually become owners of owner-occupied dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1136	The cord shift has therefore been completed. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1143	Between 2003 and 2019, housing prices in Norway rose by 163 pst. – the double of the wage increase during the same period. We've got a serious social distinction in Norway between those who can afford their own housing and those who don't. Young people today have less opportunity to enter the housing market than before, unless they have parents who can stand up for them. Having a permanent job and a fixed income also does not guarantee that you can afford to buy an owner-occupied dwelling. The property of Norway’s nurse index shows that in Trondheim, a nurse can afford less than every third dwelling spent on sale. In Oslo, it's worse. A nurse can only afford 2.5 pst. of the dwellings. It's not random who's outside the housing market. They're the ones that serve at least, who also have the least. The distinction between owning and renting owner-occupied dwellings is becoming one of the greatest inequalities in society. Increasingly, we see that the tax system adds that houses and apartments become objects of speculation, rather than a safe home for most people. The private rental market also presents challenges for many. It's both expensive and temporary. That is why we in SV believe that we should facilitate good alternatives. We have to think about housing policy. We need something in addition to the market-driven private rental market. Here, in SV, we want to bet on reasonable rental properties, which can also help to ensure diversity in the different parts of cities. In Trondheim, SV has had an impact on a bet in a third housing sector. Here you will get paid out to those who do not qualify to rent a municipal dwelling, but who for other reasons have problems getting into the private housing market. By means of such a system, we will be able to reduce social inequalities in the country. It would have been desirable that the bulk of the population also took up this glove and made such a development in the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1152	Housing prices are driven by people's investment strategies rather than by what should be a good place to live. It must not be more profitable to invest in housing than to work. An acquaintance summed up the fact that he had earned more per hour he had slept in the apartment at Grünerløkka than he earned per hour at work. Now we have to take responsibility. We don't have a sustainable development of housing policy. Now is the time to lift housing policy as a generation responsibility and as a necessary solidarity project. It doesn't keep us helping our own children. Not everyone has a parent bank that can set up. That is why in the Labour Party we promoted 30 housing policy proposals in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2021. We want a new, offensive housing policy. We need to build more dwellings, and we need to develop models for new roads into the housing market, such as: rent-to-claim. The Workers' Party will strengthen the local economy and thus give municipalities bigger muscles to realize owner-occupied housing for more people. This allows municipalities to strengthen the management of construction, both in terms of resources and competence, to strengthen housing offices, so that more people living in municipal housing can have the opportunity to own their own housing and to test out different projects that can provide new roads to the housing market. The working party will also use the House Bank more actively. We will give more opportunities to enter the housing market and counteract inequalities in the housing market by strengthening the Husbank's lending framework, by setting up probationary schemes to help people enter the housing market and by giving priority to developing a methodology for rent-to-ownership. The Labour Party will do more to support municipalities in local management of the housing market and urban and local development. The toolbox must then come forward, and we must actively contribute to a planning and building law that allows municipalities the right to regulate the form of accommodation in the housing projects. The regionalisation of different metropolitan cities in Norway will contribute to the lifting of neighbourhoods and to the reduction of exclusion, including child poverty and unemployment. Good cooperation between the State and the municipality, where efforts to increase employment and good educational pathways for young people and community action need to be stepped up. This will result in smaller differences and fewer vulnerable neighbourhoods where poor living conditions are inherited. Renewing housing policy is essential for more people to own their own homes and for more people to live safely and predictablely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1171	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1188	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be given the opportunity to reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1195	We need to facilitate new jobs in new industries, so that more people can get a safe job to do. Therefore, our clear goal should be Norway as the best country in Europe to start and run a business. This is precisely why this proposal for a representative is a positive contribution to raising an important debate on how Norway can be made more attractive to investment. Let me highlight three of many important measures. Ever since the financial crisis, there have been challenges in mobilising enough private capital for some Norwegian growth companies. That is why, first of all, we need to make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian companies. The government has introduced capital findings, where ordinary people can receive tax deductions for investments in Norwegian start-up companies. It is an important tool to improve access to capital for start-up enterprises, and it is an increasingly used mechanism. In addition to making it more profitable to invest in Norwegian companies, we need to make it easier to develop them. That's why we're strengthening the TaxFUNN, which means that companies get back some of the costs when they develop new products. It is an effective tool for change and innovation. In addition to making it more attractive to invest in and develop Norwegian companies, thirdly, we need to make it more attractive to work there. Therefore, we introduced option taxes, where employees can be rewarded for the efforts with holdings in companies. That is why we are now strengthening the scheme again, so that it reaches more growth enterprises and so that taxation is improved. It shall make it easier for entrepreneurs to compete for the sharpest heads in competition with the large, established. We will make it more attractive to invest in, develop and work in Norwegian business start-ups and growth companies. With the Right in Government, we are now taking important steps towards becoming Europe's best country to start and run a business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1214	The Labour Party shares its intention to create an investment-friendly Norway that creates Norwegian jobs with the proposal makers from the Progress Party. Of course it is. However, we are not able to free ourselves entirely from irony because the Progress Party, with its former government partners, has, over two major periods, led a policy that can make it harder to invest and create jobs. A policy of increasing differences that weakens the confidence and socialism of Norway is hardly the smartest thing if one wants a society where everyone is involved in the load. A policy that weakens the social security network does not make it easier for people to bet and take risks in the start-up phase. A policy for large tax cuts to the richest, who are proven not to create jobs, combined with recognition of the unorganised working life and unfair distribution, weakens the community and the Norwegian model, and also fails to provide investment. The Norwegian economy is going to be transformed, and we're going to rise after the coronary crisis. The Norwegian model of society has shown that high value creation and safe jobs can be ensured throughout the country. In the future, the social partners should be responsible for new areas. The Labour Party believes that the State should also consider providing new capital where it can contribute to the development of new industries. History has taught us that it is a success factor when the state is an active, professional and long-term owner who, in cooperation with private, creates new, profitable jobs and new business opportunities. This in turn facilitates more private investment over time. At the same time, industrial policy must be actively used, for example: through support for new technologies and risk capital for enterprises entering immature markets. The Labour Party will also facilitate more industry in Norway and give industry more space in Norwegian working and business life. In order to contribute to investment, we need to give business a good and a good environment. It shall be simple and unbureaucratic to start business in Norway. To conclude, in the coming years we will need hundreds of thousands of new jobs, but business policy is about so much, much more than passive tax cuts. Used correctly, business policy, together with private actors, can help to develop existing jobs while laying the foundation for a new business and new industry throughout the country. With that, I take up the proposal Workers' Party, together with others, is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1229	The representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1234	Norway needs more profitable jobs in the private sector. We need entrepreneurs, we need investors, and we need people who are willing to invest risk capital. For this reason, the Progress Party is now promoting a proposal for an investment-friendly Norway. And that is precisely why we are following up today on proposing a tax reform on ownership and some other measures that can make Norway a more investment-friendly country. It is a problem for Norway that Norwegian enterprises owned from abroad are dropping taxes on working capital, while Norwegian jobs owned by Norway are having to punge into expensive judges. The consequence is that Norwegian-owned enterprises are deprived of capital and losses in competition with foreign-owned enterprises and that Norwegian enterprises owned from abroad may have lower returns and dividends. It's sad to read the relatively fresh report from the NHHS Consulting, which states that 63 pst. by persons with high industrial wealth, a high degree of consideration will be given to moving out of Norway if the Workers' Party receives a majority for increased taxes on working capital. It is also sad to read that the current level of taxation on working capital already makes many consider leaving Norway. This means that Norwegian jobs are missing capital that could give Norway new and badly needed jobs. The Progress Party is therefore promoting today a proposal to reduce the sum of taxes on wealth, dividends and corporate taxes to a competitive level so that Norway can become a country that attracts investors instead of frightening them away. This is basically about common sense. The attitude in this case once again reveals that the left side has disappointingly weak economic understanding and does not even see that there is a link between Norway’s trade balance and that Norway, unlike other countries, has an oil fund. However, in this case I am particularly disappointed that the Central Party seems to support a policy that weakens Norwegian investors and opens up an increasing number of Norwegian jobs to be sold out to the United States, Europe and China. It does not help to vote in favour of the proposal for an investment-friendly Norway without supporting the essential elements of such a strategy. In the media, the Zenterpartiet says that they put Norwegian interests first, while in reality they seem to embrace parties that will race Norwegian entrepreneurs out of the country. We now have a budgetary settlement relating to the revised national budget for 2022. In this agreement, the Progress Party has had an impact on an important note that in its draft State budget for 2022, the government will present an assessment of the competitiveness of Norwegian ownership taxation with ownership taxation in other OECD countries and the largest non-OECD economies. This is a step in the right direction. It's a small step, but this consensus at the same time makes it seem funny that the government parties cannot vote for the proposals we are promoting today. I would assume that this is due to a failure on the part of the government parties. Finally, I would like to address the proposals behind the Progress Party, alone and together with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1249	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1254	The centre party is concerned that we should facilitate jobs and value creation throughout Norway. We need to use the advantages, the history and the rich natural resources we have to build more and stronger businesses, get more people to work and contribute to development throughout Norway. It is interesting to record the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party on a more investment friendly Norway. The central party fully agrees with the proposers that after eight years with the first Progress Party in government and then the Progress Party as a supporting party to the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, there is a need for a new policy for a more investment friendly Norway. I also record that the representative of the Progress Party is trying to dispel and de-dramatise the record trade deficit that one has from mainland Norway, a trade deficit that has increased year by year for the last eight years under today's majority. The trade deficit is approx. 250 B.C.E. kr greater today than it was in 2013. It's serious. At the same time, it is also serious that industry's share of GDP continues to decline. We must move in the opposite direction, we must ensure new industrial start-ups in Norway, more jobs in mainland Norway. All in all, the talk about conversion and green change: we have become more oil dependent in recent years. We have to make sure to build industry on the mainland. We must – as the Centre Party has proposed – have a green state investment company that can really go into focus also on the owner’s side in facilitating both the maintenance and further development of new investments in wood processing, in the maritime sector and in the food industry. We need to ensure that public procurement is used to facilitate Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian actors – not as under today’s government, with the Support Party Progress Party, where large investments, even in a time of crisis, end up in the Netherlands, Turkey or other countries, instead of providing jobs in Norway. We need to have a targeted policy where we put together, not as one has had in recent years, with an unpredictable and anti-business charging policy. On the contrary, we must ensure stability, reduce taxes and have targeted measures, including: better depreciation rules for those investing in new activity in Norway and facilitate new activity throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1265	We have to facilitate investment in productive activity, in new industries and in new jobs in the years to come, if we are to succeed in the big shift from being an oil economy and an oil nation to becoming a climate nation. However, this proposal from the Progress Party is, above all, an excuse to cut taxes and charges in even greater quantities for the richest in Norway, as the current government has done for eight years, without any indication that it has helped to increase the number of jobs in Norway. It is also a big misunderstanding that taxation is the only tool for business. A study conducted by the Norwegian Venture Capital Association found that access to skilled labour is considered to be the clear largest restriction on the expansion of Norwegian growth enterprises. The same applies in so far as a question concerns enterprises that are now betting in North Norway or other parts of District Norway – they lack skilled labour. Then, in this debate, there are several arguments and allegations that the Norwegian wealth tax or capital tax is a barrier to Norwegian industrial activity. But in tax matters, there is another rather strange phenomenon, and that is that the taxation of wealth in Norway is lower than in most other countries we compare with. On the contrary, the foreign owners really have good reason to be envious of the Norwegians. Looking at the taxation of capital stock in Norway, it is not particularly high. We know that Norway is one of the most attractive countries from which to operate, as the OECD also notes, and only 3.3 pst of the Norwegian tax income comes from different types of capital stock, such as inheritance, real estate and wealth. In the countries around us in the OECD, the average is about 5.5 pst. Norway also has more dollar billionaires than the United States of America against population, Norway has four times as many kingdoms as the United States measured per capita, and in the middle of the biggest economic downturn since World War II, we are setting a new record in the number of billionaires in Norway. How are they going to invest in Norwegian jobs, in Norwegian enterprises? A question might have been asked about this, but the Progress Party would rather give them tax cuts. The argument that the taxes on wealth makes Norway a less attractive country to operate from business simply does not meet professional economic objectives. There's no financial evidence for that. Rational investors are going to place the wealth where they get the highest rate of return, and they are going to have to accept that the wealth tax reduces the rate of return after tax on all investments. It has nothing to say to the foreign owners. So here's more statements for which there's no evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1278	The main decision we take for a more investment-friendly Norway is to strengthen and further develop the European cooperation we are part of, and to stop questioning the EEA Agreement, which three parties from the left do. The only alternative to the EEA Agreement is full membership of the EU. We are going through a completely necessary transition from a dominant oil sector in the years to come. We're going to have a green conversion. It is quite clear that we must be as important a part of the European green gift as it is possible to be. We're going to have a green transition where we're going to achieve our climate goals, we're going to take care of nature, we're going to build a circular economy that's strong, and we're also going to have a global market economy within nature's resilience. Norway has to take a leading position here. Already now we see offensive climate policy driving business development across the country. We have to bet on education – education throughout life, from kindergarten. We have just adopted a completion reform, and it is research and higher education. In the next period, we need to strengthen the efforts we have on our whole tool. We have a good tool with the Research Council, Innovation Norway, now with an enhanced green platform, hydrogen investment, Enova, with increased funds over many years, and Nysnø, which are established, and can also make investments in climate-friendly businesses. We have to make it easier to start new businesses. We have just announced in the revision that we should have a simpler and better option tax. It's been improved in the past as well. And during this ageing period, we have constantly made improvements within SkattenFunn and Kapitalfinn, which reduce investment in Norwegian start-up companies. If we look at simplifications for Norwegian companies from 2011, it has saved Norwegian companies for 28 billion. kr. And since 2013, by a civil majority, we have introduced tax reliefs of 34 billion. kr. What we need is to continue working together in Europe and set targets for the biggest challenges we have – achieving climate goals, taking care of nature, developing a circular economy and making it easier and better to start new Norwegian businesses. This is a work we've been doing systematically for many years. It also needs to be reinforced in the next magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1296	The Government shares the view of the proposers that profitable enterprises are crucial for employment and well-being. To achieve our goal of creating more and including more, we need to organise new jobs and industries. Then we have to have a business- and investment-friendly Norway. Overall, under this government, tax reliefs, including the RNB unit, amount to 35 billion have been granted. kr. The tax on income has been reduced in order to pay for employment, the tax on industry has been reduced in order to pay for investment in Norway, and the tax on working capital has been reduced in order to eliminate some of the injustices between Norwegian and foreign owners and to facilitate a diverse and strong private ownership. The share-sharing account provides each individual with simpler and more flexible opportunities to invest in quoted shares. The deduction of investments in start-up companies provides incentives for increased investment in entrepreneurial activities. The layout of the share savings account balances the need to provide sound investment incentives in order to avoid adjustments and State aid rules. In 2018, we introduced a tax regime for options in small start-up companies. The scheme is little used, and the Ministry has now sent a proposal to consult on a simpler and more favourable tax regime. The aim is to promote the proposal in the State budget for 2022. Norwegian exports are important for value creation and jobs throughout Norway, especially in District Norway. Competitive activities now have a good starting point on the way out of the corona crisis. The competitive power is strengthened. We also see that Norway now has a surplus on the trade balance, the highest since 2014. At that time the oil price was higher. We have now started a good transition in business, and the Norwegian economy has also become less oil dependent in recent years. We see that oil investments over time will also mean less into the Norwegian economy; we see that the transition is well under way. I agree with the rapporteurs on many points. We have a strategy, Norway's way out of the crisis, how much of this is reflected. The work on improving the investment climate is ongoing work, and I agree with the majority that it is not necessary to work out a new strategy. It is sufficient to contribute to the continuation of the bourgeois majority after the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1316	The Progress Party has promoted some good concrete proposals in this matter. It is known that the Right is one of our good partners at least in terms of having an opinion on the property tax. The right, at least theoretically, has also gone into the bust to reduce and eliminate the property tax. My question is simply: why can't Right-wing support our proposal on taxes on wealth in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1323	This is simply not the way we treat tax reliefs, in the decision-making of the Stortinget. But the Progress Party and the three other bourgeois parties have jointly contributed to a halving of the tax on working capital during this four-year period. We've been clear that we want to continue that slowdown even in the next period, so I look forward to a good cooperation with the Progress Party, either inside or outside government, during the next majorization period as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1330	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1337	When the representative Gülsvik had the floor, I could hardly believe my own ears and what I heard. It was said that a new majority would be more investment friendly. Well, I think most jobs, on the contrary, would agree that the representative forgot a "u" – that a new majority would be more inconvenient to investment. One cannot seriously say that a red-green mix, with Red and MDG on the tip, will be better to create more jobs in Norwegian business. It's a majority that we see in the committee will increase the taxes by tens of billions of dollars from one year to another. There is a collection of parties proposing higher taxes on Norwegian ownership than for foreign ownership. And there's a collection of parties that go against the grips we're now taking to make it more attractive to invest in Norwegian entrepreneurs, and among other things. proposes scrapping the entire option tax, which makes it more attractive to work in Norwegian entrepreneurs. Norwegian industry should be aware of this. We therefore have a party in the Centre Party that will notify Norway of the EEA Agreement, which will mean poorer market access and poorer export access for Norwegian business. One may even become dependent on a party such as Red, which in the Committee will not even share the objective of making Norway the best country in Europe to start and run a business. To call it a business-friendly majority falls on its own unfairness, and therefore at least I have to work for it to remain an inescapable minority. For the last Norwegian business life needs now, increased taxes and reversals of the grips we are now taking are just to get out of the corona crisis and get more entrepreneurial in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1346	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox Case No. 14 and 15 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1377	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1384	The power market was deregulated early in the 1990s. The Norwegian power market is closely integrated with the Nordic one, and eventually we have also got some connection to the European continent. The EU has developed its energy market packages, and this concerns the third energy market package, which dates back to 2009, but these were implemented in 2015 to 2017. The power system is changing and there is a need for modernisation of system operation. These regulations ensure progress in investigations and decisions relevant to Norway, and in particular because we are part of a Nordic and European market. Close cooperation is ongoing between the system operators, which are Statnett in Norway, and the regulatory authorities on the further development of the markets and operation of the Nordic power system, and it is important that Norway continues to participate in this cooperation. The relevant Regulations have been adopted in the period 2015-2017 and the internal market in the EU is based on a common regulatory framework that is applied in the same way by the Member States. A prerequisite for the rights of EEA and EFTA States in the EU internal market is that legislation relevant to the EEA remains in force in the EEA Agreement. There is also a need to make small adjustments to the Constitution. With that, I would recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1393	Today, therefore, ACER comrades Right and Workers' Party with supporting parties will ensure the inclusion of four EU regulations into Norwegian law, as part of a third energy market package. Again, closer integration with the EU is ensured without reservation because, as noted in the comments, better security of supply is expected, better integration of renewable energy into the power system, more well-functioning markets and efficient network operations. It might have been tempting to ask the Workers' Party what is in this, especially the latter, and why even closer integration is needed. In practice, Norway has already adapted to all EU rules. Is it considered that today’s network activity is inefficient? And what about the market today that is not functioning properly enough? The Government writes that ‘the purpose of the Regulations is to facilitate more efficient cross-border power trading’. In view of the view of the Centre Party, it is difficult to see the purpose of these Regulations, and once again, the Stortinget is subjected to an urgent examination of a case in which it is challenging to overlook the impact on the Norwegian power market. These four Regulations also extend the obligation to provide ESA with information, thereby extending ESA’s right to remedy beyond what was agreed when the Stortinget adopted the introduction of the EU’s third energy market package in 2018, also called the Acer case. The regulations we are about to adopt today are comprehensive and regulate a wide range of aspects relating to the operation of the power grid and the functioning of the power market. In practice, it makes the information obligation very extensive. ESA may in principle require information on most issues relevant to the power market of most market players. In view of the view of the Centre Party, this is not satisfactory – it should probably not surprise the Chamber either – and it is probably an example of a weakening of Norwegian autonomy in favour of anonymous bureaucrats located in Brussels, i.e. away from elected representatives and away from the electorate’s ability to place someone in charge. Unfortunately, this is typical of the Norwegian EU debate. We are going to vote against, but we are going to support Red's loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1408	In record time, Stortinget will deal with the inclusion of 260 pages of legal text in Norwegian law. It's big, untransparent, and we don't know the consequences of this. The four Acer Regulations become a rule that prevails if there is a conflict between them and existing Norwegian laws and regulations, and the impact of these four Regulations has not been established. Before the adoption of the package, there is no impact assessment for electricity prices or for industry, and several of those who have been consulted strongly warn against adopting the regulations without knowing more about the impact on Norwegian industry, Norwegian consumers and the Norwegian power market. The likelihood is high that electricity prices will rise and thus jeopardise the Norwegian power-intensive industry. Nevertheless, the government parties, the Workers' Party and the Greens' Greens' Party will press the matter through in the Chamber today. With these regulations, we will give away further decision-making powers from the Storting and from the EU body Acer. It is contrary to the Basic Law to do this by a simple majority – § 115 would ensure that we did not give authority to other bodies outside our country without doing so by a three-quarters majority. So also the Supreme Court says that No to the EU's lawsuit against giving us authority to Acer by a simple majority – as the Stortinget has done, against the votes of Red – is to be taken into the judicial system. We should at least wait for it to be decided in the judicial system before giving further power here today from Norway and over to Acer. But it doesn't want the Acer comrades with the Workers' Party at the head. Although we do not know the consequence of the electricity price and therefore too much of our industry, the matter is to be beaten before the elections. The working party likes to talk about them waiting with new power cables until we have gained experience with the cables that are now being built. What about waiting and looking at the effect of these Acer regulations before we join and submit to them even more? Red does not want ACER to have power over Norwegian energy policy – The Stortinget will have full sovereignty over this. That is why we will send the matter back to the government, pending that the issue of sovereignty to Acer has been dealt with in the legal system. It is at least the Labour Party that should be able to participate, if they then want to gain experience first – whether it be for power cables or our national sovereignty. And with that, I'll take up Red's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1419	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1424	I participate in Tina Brus' absence. Let me just underline that the four regulations in the proposal complement part of the legislation of the third energy market package that Stortinget agreed to include in the EEA Agreement in 2018. Those Regulations contribute to more harmonised technical requirements and market-based trade rules that contribute to the efficient and safe trading of power between countries. The energy system in Europe is changing. One of the objectives is to enable the power system to accept more renewable energy. These regulations address practical, important issues that need to be coordinated in order to contribute to an effective and safe exchange of power between countries. My assessment is that the inclusion of the regulation will contribute to increased security of supply, better integration of renewable energy into the power system and more efficient power market in the Nordic and Europe. For many decades Norway has been part of a common Nordic power market, which is once again integrated into the European power market. Close cooperation between energy regulators is therefore necessary. Regulations regulate the use of infrastructure for cross-border trade in power. They do not regulate ownership of water falls or concessions for power generation, electricity networks or foreign tables. Responsibility for security of power supply remains national. These regulations concern matters which to a large extent have been regulated by contractual and non-statutory practices between countries. By including the Code, Statnett and Power Exchanges in Norway, such as Nord Pool, will participate under conditions equivalent to European actors in the development of the power system. The Norwegian Energy Regulatory Authority participates fully in ACER, with the exception of voting rights. Neither the third energy market package nor those regulations deprive Norway of its own energy policy. Norwegian authorities provide concessions for power generation, electricity networks and foreign tables. The inclusion of the Regulations in the EEA Agreement and its implementation in Norwegian law will contribute to a level playing field and give Norwegian actors access to the European energy market, in line with the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1444	I understand if the Council of State doesn't know the matter as well as the Council of State would have done, but we're still trying. Several hearing bodies have been sceptical about the introduction of these four regulations, including: of fear of a higher price of power and power for the industry. The government writes that it wants to introduce these for more efficient cross-border power trading. Is there a higher electricity and power price that the government responds to a more efficient cross-border power trade? Or what about the market today that is not functioning well enough for the government, so that these four regulations must be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1453	Norway is already part of a Nordic power market, which is again an integral part of the European Union. What this matter is about is to ensure that we get a good regulation for the more technical solutions for power trading. It has, as I was in my post, been largely based on agreements and non-statutory law. I think it is good that we now get this into order, and that Norway becomes part of it. If Norway were to stand on the side, it would only mean that one would leave more power to others — not more power to the Stortinget, but more power to others. It's not that the higher price is a measure. No, the aim of cooperation is to contribute to good solutions for consumers, for climate and the environment, and a market-based solution for trade is an important tool for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1458	The Council of State said in its speech that this does not reduce Norwegian influence over energy policy, and that it is not a weakening of Norwegian autonomy in this way. The Council of State also said that the objective was harmonisation against the European market, because the Nordic was so closely linked to it. Does the Council agree that these four Regulations extend the information obligation to ESA and thus to the right of ESA to remedy beyond what was adopted when the Stortinget adopted the introduction of the third energy market package in 2018?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1466	The point of this is that we're going to get a more orderly system, and that obviously also means that there has to be access to information. I am a member of a market economy, but I am a member of a regulated market economy. What we're doing here is regulating and providing a good framework for the power exchange. I mean it would be very unfortunate if you were to leave more power to others. Norway, as a large and important force nation, must also ensure that Norwegian regulatory authorities participate in this important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1471	Erna Solberg today stated, in connection with the presentation of the Energy Communication, that our future well-being depends on us continuing to develop profitable export industries based on Norwegian resources and Norwegian competence. I guess Solberg's right. So we know very well that Norway's power-intensive industry, which exports well over 100 billion. kr per year – accounts for tens of thousands of jobs, key businesses and communities around the country – for 100 years there has been a huge competitive advantage, namely access to reasonable energy from hydropower. That's the main advantage. It's been 100 years, and I think it'll be 100 more years. But for every new cable we build, when we connect more closely to the EU and also give power over our energy policy to the EU, electricity prices will be harmonised with European electricity prices. Does Sanner see that this could put our industry in jeopardy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1478	The short answer to that is no. Norwegian competitive activities have strengthened their competitiveness and are well positioned for future growth. There are many factors that affect the framework conditions for that type of activity. Access to power and power at a reasonable price is part of this, but also the important framework conditions that Norway and Europe will have in place to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. There's a different mix in the energy market. Norway contributes hydropower. European power supplies contribute to other types of power, including: wind power. We must ensure that we have a well-functioning power market in the Nordic countries and in Europe. Norway is also part of it, and now we also get better rules about the exchange of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1483	It is a somewhat bold claim from Sanner – he overlooks the enormous importance of hydropower for Norwegian industry. Much affects competitiveness, but it is quite clear that historically, and also in the future, access to cheap energy from clean, renewable hydropower is crucial to ensure that we have a metal industry in Norway, produce aluminium and silicon, metals the world needs, not least with the green shift and more electrification and batteries, etc. If we put this in danger, we're undermining the foundation of a lot of our industry. Is Sanner concerned about the outcome of the ongoing trial that is about whether we can give power to Acer by a simple majority? Is this why it is being pushed through in the Storting now, in order to reach a possible and, to the extent, negative decision in the judicial system, in favour of No to the EU and those who are skeptical about the transfer, in advance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1490	The representative knows very well that it would be totally wrong for me as the Council of State to speculate on a matter in a legal system. We must respect the distribution of power in the Norwegian system. At least I'll do it. I do not underestimate the importance of hydropower for the development of Norwegian industry in Norway. It is a fact that Norwegian industry is largely built around power generation and that Norwegian industry enjoys good access to reasonable power. That's how we want it to still be in the future. So I think the Norwegian energy mix is going to be expanded over the year, as we also get another type of energy and renewable energy into the Norwegian energy system. I feel confident that the competitive advantage of Norwegian hydropower will continue in the decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1497	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1516	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1529	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting. Storting goes first to voting on the remaining items from yesterday's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1541	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to extend the possibility of an extended introduction programme and to extend Norwegian training more than four months after an individual assessment, in order to address the consequences of an outbreak of covid-19.’; The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1668	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1681	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1695	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1707	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking Greece to be relieved by the government and to start the work of picking up another 750 refugees from the Greek islands for relocation in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the UNHCR and the Greek authorities, is asked to select families with children, vulnerable lonely and others with the greatest need for relocalisation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to strengthen assistance to Bosnia and offer UNHCR in cooperation with the Bosnian authorities to relocate particularly vulnerable refugees to Norway for the treatment of the asylum application here.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. Red has announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1741	In the case of alternative voting between the Committee's position and the Socialist Left's proposals, the vote was supported by 81 to 5 votes. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.29.13]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1753	During the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to draw up a classification of electric bicycles as a type of vehicle so that municipalities can regulate parking and other legislation for use in line with other vehicles.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1786	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Siv Mossleth on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 191 L back to the government and ask the government to return to Stortinget with a new proposition based on a review of how the provision of land postal services can be set up in order to be as accurate as possible and whether there is scope for cost-reduction measures by delimiting the offer during a transitional period to the postal districts where the demand for land postal banking services is the largest. ‘... [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1812	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to find satisfactory solutions for those who lose the offer when the Post terminates the obligation to provide basic banking services, for example ‘Banking in the store’.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1846	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1858	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1872	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1884	During the debate, Øystein Langholm Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the costs of planning and competition for new Mo i Rana airport are included in the local contribution of 600 million. crowns.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e1981	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2031	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2050	During the debate, Mr Laabak has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review and submit proposals for changes to the law and the sharing of responsibilities for the allocation of resources, so that users’ needs and wishes can be met where there are no other overriding reasons.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that people who have had a type of aid receive it again when it is to be renewed, if the user so wishes.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2081	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2100	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Per Olav Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No 5, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 6-8, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 8, from Red. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals that EEA citizens must be able to document fixed employment contracts with terms and conditions in order to obtain a work permit.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals to eliminate access to the average calculation of working time under the Working Environment Act §10-5, which provides access to work beyond normal working hours without overtime payment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2137	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose a national model of seriousness for public procurement and procurement based on the Oslo model, the Vestfold/Telemark model and the like, and to explore how to extend the model of seriousness to other industries. Undertakings entrusted with the task must be required to have a collective agreement.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2154	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to present a package of measures against rental which prohibits the use in exposed areas under the Working Environment Act § 14-12 [[5]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2171	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to increase the trade-union deduction from the State budget for 2022.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2189	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose that EEA citizens outside the Nordic region be able to document employment contracts with tariff conditions in order to obtain a work permit.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2206	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to double the trade-union deduction in the State budget for 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2223	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. «The government is asked to propose amendments to the Working Environment Act which ensure that access to the average calculation of working time in general areas is reserved to establishments bound by a national collective bargaining agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2311	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2330	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red proposal No 4, from Arild Grande on behalf of the Workers' Party There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the parties, is asked to review the use of the lockout and forced payroll and to make proposals to ensure that compulsory payroll cannot be used to undermine the strike rights. The aim is not to stop ongoing conflicts unless it is absolutely necessary, but also adjusted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2360	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to ensure that workers who have concluded a so-called house agreement can free themselves from it at short notice if the purpose is to conclude a national collective bargaining agreement.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2377	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for review of the use of the lockout and forced payroll and for proposals to ensure that compulsory payroll cannot be used to undermine the striker’s rights, either by the use of lockout by one party or by a careful assessment of whether a strikeout threatens life and health.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2394	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives against the parties in order to strengthen the core ILO Conventions in Norwegian law.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2419	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2439	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 3-10, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 11-14, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–14, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose to reverse the non-social cuts in the physiotherapy system as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose to reverse the cuts as soon as possible in support of dental regulation to children and young people and dental examinations for the elderly.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose as soon as possible to reverse the non-social cuts to the necessary medical consumables.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reverse as soon as possible the unsocial cuts in redundancy payments made under the Solberg Government and to make the necessary proposals.’ [[AAP]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2489	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an independent evaluation and foreclosure of the effects of the unpre-reform, both in terms of performance levels, the relationship with other income-related benefits and the relationship with occupational pensions, and for proposals that may correct any unfair outcome of the reform.’;» The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-10, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the draft State budget for 2022 to make proposals for enhanced housing support to reach more people and to cover as much of their living expenditure as in 2010.’» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose to reverse the cuts in children’s allowances as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to submit proposals as soon as possible to reverse the cut in the car support system for those who need a car in Group 1 in order to break an isolated life and improve the functioning of daily life.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate the changes in the publicly funded physical therapy offer at the same time as a step-up plan for rehabilitation/rehabilitation in the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate changes in dental provision for children, young people and the elderly to improve dental provision for these groups.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the change in the rules that cut medical consumables in order to ensure that the users are met with fair needs’.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to evaluate and assess the effects of the default reform, both in terms of performance levels, in relation to other income-related benefits and in relation to occupational pensions, and to make proposals that can correct unreasonable cuts.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough evaluation of the system of redundancy payments and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ [[AAP]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2568	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a review of the implementation of unfair cuts by government and the majority of the population of the weakest in society and an increase in social inequality in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2592	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 2, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the law on popular protection ensuring equal treatment between persons admitted to psychiatric treatment institutions or drug institutions and those admitted to somatic hospital wards, so that both patient groups are exempted from the reduction of their benefits from popular protection.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2618	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the legal basis for reducing social security benefits for persons in criminal proceedings.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2642	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2661	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose permanent improvements to the income insurance schemes, based on the measures taken by the Storting, especially in the spring of 2020.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2694	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make proposals for permanent changes that halve the minimum income requirement to qualify for lump sums, with effect from 1 October 2021.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2718	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4–6, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to wind up today’s invitation to tender for the labour market measures in Nav.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Nav collects documentation from the action companies on the basis of which it can verify that subsidies for labour market measures are intended and that profits benefit actions and participants.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2751	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for new forms of organisation that facilitate non-profit activities in labour market measures and that do not have a return on capital for the purpose’.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2768	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that economic values acquired through the operation of labour market measures remain in the enterprise of measures to be continued in the formation of groups.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Nav offices to operate ordinary employment services as an instrument for building up, strengthening and maintaining the labour skills of each Nav office and developing closer cooperation with employers in the private and public sectors, in line with the conditions of the Nav reform.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that all companies providing publicly funded welfare services are organised in their own legal entities where no activity other than publicly funded welfare services is permitted.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2804	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2823	During the debate, Mr Lundtigen has tabled a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to extend the mentoring system in Nav to agricultural establishments employing workers residing in Norway.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2852	The size of the store then goes to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1–6 was the second time to deal with legal cases and concerns legislative decisions 162 up to and including 167. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2868	A total of 17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 5, from Vetle Wang Soleim on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 6, by Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and the Green Party on the Environment the proposals No 7-9, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds proposal No 10, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 11 and 12, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 13 and 14, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 15, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 18 and 19, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from Red. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: In the following provisions, the adjustment factor ‘1,33’ is replaced by ‘1,70’: 1st@item: inlistbox § 10-11, first paragraph, second sentence 2nd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, fourth paragraph, third sentence 3rd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, seventh paragraph, third sentence 4th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, first paragraph, fourth sentence 5th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, second paragraph, second sentence 6th@item: inlistbox § 10-42, third paragraph, point (b) 7th@item: inlistbox § 10-44, first paragraph, third sentence II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2021.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: Paragraphs 4 to 10 of the seventh paragraph are replaced by the following: the value of commercial property is set at the imputed rental value of the property. [[7]] Valuation after the first sentence may be made using differentiated square metres. If the taxpayer so requires, the value shall be reduced to the property's documented trading value. Paragraphs 4 to 12 first to third and fifth and sixth paragraphs are replaced by the following: listed shares are generally valued at their price value on 1 January of the fiscal year. [[1]] [[2]] Unlisted shares are valued at the share's proportional share of the total value of the tax assets of the limited liability company or public limited liability company on 1 January of the year preceding the fiscal year broken down by denomination. [[3]] Unlisted shares in foreign companies are valued at the estimated value of the share's sales on 1 January of the fiscal year. The share shall be valued after the second paragraph when the taxpayer so requires and may be liable to the company's tax assets. [[5]] Equity certificates in savings banks, mutual insurance companies, credit and mortgage associations and self-owned financing undertakings are valued at the price value on 1 January of the fiscal year. If the price is not quoted or known, the value is set at the estimated value of sales. [[6]] Shares in unit trusts are valued at their unit value on 1 January of the fiscal year. Share in unit trusts, see Paragraphs 10 to 20 of the Tax Act are valued at the value of the share. Paragraph 4-17, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: 2) Holdings, other than those referred to in the third and seventh paragraphs of Section 4-10 of the Tax Act, are valued at their tax value. Paragraphs 4 to 40, third sentence, are replaced by the following: The value of the share of the holding of the participant is taken as the proportion of the net worth calculated in accordance with this paragraph. II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e2998	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows: In the following provisions, the adjustment factor ‘1,33’ is replaced by ‘1,64’: 1st@item: inlistbox § 10-11, first paragraph, second sentence 2nd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, fourth paragraph, third sentence 3rd@item: inlistbox § 10-21, seventh paragraph, third sentence 4th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, first paragraph, fourth sentence 5th@item: inlistbox § 10-31, second paragraph, second sentence 6th@item: inlistbox § 10-42, third paragraph, point (b) 7th@item: inlistbox § 10-44, first paragraph, third sentence II The amendments under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the year 2021.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3038	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government requests a maximum wage support scheme of 5 million. SEK per enterprise per month and a total ceiling of 10 million. kronor per enterprise.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government requests a monthly ceiling of 5 million per undertaking. cents per month in the business compensation scheme, and an annual maximum corresponding thereto, with retroactive effect.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3060	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The size request the Government immediately to submit proposals to reverse the temporary changes in the petroleum tax.’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a proposal for a neutral petroleum tax system in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3085	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include several fixed unavoidable costs in the general business compensation scheme, so that the conversion of the calculation model does not lead to a reduction in the overall level of aid for hard hit enterprises.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3102	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In Law No 21 December 2020, paragraph. 164 on amendments to the Tax Act, Part IV, is amended as follows: Paragraphs 2-3, first paragraph, the following points (i), (j) and (k) are added: i. interest according to the provisions of Sections 10-80. j. remuneration for the use of, or right to use, intellectual property rights, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 10 to 81; k. remuneration for the use of, or right to use, ships, vessels, rigging, etc., aeroplanes and helicopters, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 10-82. 10 to 81 is replaced by the following: § 10-81 Source tax on consideration for use or the right to use intangible rights Company or device resident in the rest of the world shall correspond to the tax to the country of consideration for the use of, or the right to use, intangible rights, cf. [[1]] § 5-20, first paragraph, received from company or device a. as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 2-2; b. as referred to in Sections 10 to 40, or equivalent foreign company or arrangement, where at least one of the participants is taxed in Norway in accordance with the rules of Sections 10 to 40 to 10-49; C. taxable under the Petroleum Tax Act § 1, cf. § 2, or d. which is taxable under Section 2-3, first paragraph, point (b) of the Tax Act, when the payment is allocated to activities taxable in Norway. Tax obligations under the first subparagraph shall not apply to: [[2]] a. a company or device which is effectively established and effectively engaged in economic activity in an EEA country under conditions equivalent to those laid down in Sections 10-64(b); b. remuneration taxed under point (b) of the first paragraph of Section 2-3 or the Petroleum Tax Act § 1, cf. § 2, or c. the proportion of remuneration paid to members of companies with unit-holders, as defined in: point (b) of the first subparagraph may not be taxed here in Norway for its part of the company's income. Tax obligations are reduced proportionately. Paragraphs 10 to 82 are replaced by the following: § 10-82 Source tax on remuneration for use or the right to use certain physical assets Company or device resident in a low tax country, cf. [[1]] Paragraphs 10 to 63 shall correspond to the tax to the State of consideration for the use of, or right to use, ships, vessels, rigging, etc., aeroplanes and helicopters, received from a related company or device. a. as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 2-2; b. as referred to in Sections 10 to 40, or equivalent foreign company or arrangement, where at least one of the participants is taxed in Norway in accordance with the rules of Sections 10 to 40 to 10-49; C. taxable under the Petroleum Tax Act § 1, cf. § 2, or d. which is taxable under Section 2-3, first paragraph, point (b) of the Tax Act, when the payment is allocated to activities taxable in Norway. The reference under this provision is regulated in Sections 10 to 83. Tax obligations under the first subparagraph shall not apply to: [[2]] a. a company or device which is effectively established and effectively engaged in economic activity in an EEA country under conditions equivalent to those laid down in Sections 10-64(b); b. remuneration taxed under points (a) or (b) of the first paragraph of Section 2-3 or the Petroleum Tax Act § 1, cf. Article 2 c. remuneration for the use or right to use ships and ships received from companies taxed under the provisions of Sections 8 to 10 to 8 to 20; or d. the share of remuneration when members of companies with unit-holders are defined as follows: point (b) of the first subparagraph may not be taxed here in Norway for its part of the company's income. Tax obligations are reduced proportionately. Paragraphs 10 to 82 shall become paragraphs 10 to 83 and shall be replaced by the following: §10-83 Related company or device Related under §§10-80 and 10-82: [[1]] a. a company or device which the payer directly or indirectly owns or controls by at least 50 per cent; b. company or device which, directly or indirectly, owns or controls the payer by at least 50 per cent; c. company or device related to b, directly or indirectly, owns or controls by at least 50 per cent. Company, etc. [[2]] shall be considered to be related after the first subparagraph if the requirement for ownership or control is or has been fulfilled at any time in the year of income before payment is fixed in time.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In Law No 21 December 2020, paragraph. 166 amendments to the Tax Payments Act, Part III, are amended as follows: Paragraphs 5 to 4b are replaced by the following: § 5-4b Obligation to make tax deductions on interest and payment for intangible rights and certain physical assets The person who pays interest or remuneration for the use or right to use intangible rights or ships, ships, rigs, aircraft and helicopters which are taxable under the tax law §§ 10-80, 10-81 or 10-82 shall make tax payments to cover income tax on such interest or remuneration. [[1]] The tax charge is calculated by the taxable person at the amount that the tax will amount to following the decision of the Enlargement on taxation for the year in question.’.» [[2]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘In Law No 21 December 2020, paragraph. 171 amendments to the Tax Administration Act, Part III, are amended as follows: point (a) of the first paragraph of Section 8-2 is replaced by the following: (a) had assets or income which are taxable here in the country under other provisions of the tax law than Sections 10-80, 10-81, 10-82 or 10-13 and the person who would have been liable under the tax law § 2-2, first paragraph if it had not been resident in another country under tax agreements. Paragraphs 9-1, third paragraph, are replaced by the following: Subordinated persons determine the basis for the tax on income under the Tax Act Chapter 19 [[3]] [[source tax scheme]] Paragraph 9-2, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Subordinated persons calculate taxes on income under the Tax Act Chapter 19 [[2]] [[source tax scheme]] The fourth sentence of the second paragraph of Section 9-6 is replaced by the following: The time limit for applying for reimbursement of taxes under the tax laws §§ 10-80, 10-81 and 10-82 and Chapter 19 [[source tax scheme]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3262	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Centre Party and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law 19 June 2009 No. 58 on value added tax is amended as follows: [[VAT Act]] The second sentence of the first paragraph of Section 5-2 is deleted. II The Act enters into force on 1 July 2021. The law shall be repealed on 31 December 2021.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3285	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the withholding tax is not limited to related persons’. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the withholding tax on royalties is not limited to payments to low tax countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3307	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough evaluation of the current NOKUS corporate tax regime, in particular in view of the possibility for tax authorities to control reported information and the mechanism to contribute to the effective collection of the correct tax.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make an assessment, during July 2021, together with the social partners, of the impact of the infection situation and vaccination rate on the economic outlook and, consequently, the need for extension and any other adjustments to the wage support system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3329	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3805	Alternatively, C III § 9-3 new eighth paragraph as well as IV last sentence and proposal No. 5, from Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: Paragraphs 14 to 74 are added as follows: § 14-74 Contingent tax exemption on the cessation of the activities of fur animals Gained by replacement under the law prohibiting the keeping of fur animals § 3 may be exempted from income tax as long as the taxpayer uses the consideration for the acquisition or cost of land, construction or installations used in the taxable person's business or other gainful activity. [[1]] The compensation may also be used for the purchase of livestock on farm. This does not apply, however, to residential and leisure property. The Ministry may lay down rules on the clarification and delimitation of reinvestment under this provision. [[3]] In the event of the winding-up of participating companies before the end of the reinvestment deadline, the non-reinvested gain shall be allocated proportionately among the participants. The second sentence of the second subparagraph of this paragraph continues to apply to individual participants. Instead, the individual participant may choose that the gain be taxed in the liquidation year. II The change under I applies immediately with effect from the income year 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3838	That's right over J. The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3853	It's over K. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3867	The remainder of C and A, B, D, E, F, G, H, I, and L.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3877	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3887	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3899	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 147 LS is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e3921	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e4907	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e4919	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e4933	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e4945	During the debate, Mr Gülsvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 155 LS is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e4980	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5341	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5353	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5367	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5379	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 4-7, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 8 and 9, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 10 and 11, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 12 and 13, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 14 and 15, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 14 and 15, from Red. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a non-commercial housing sector with a housing offer for owner-occupied dwellings at the price of market fluctuations, and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the necessary legislative changes and financial appropriations to establish such a scheme.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for legislative changes that allow municipalities to charge lower property tax rates for primary dwellings than for secondary and leisure dwellings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5425	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to propose as soon as possible credit regulation to limit the total lending to housing by banks, while increasing the share of first-time buyers in total new residential loans.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asking the government to explore the means to change the composition of banks' credit in the long term so that a smaller proportion goes to housing and commercial property and a larger share to other industries, and to return to Stortinget with proposals at the latest ifm. State budget for 2022.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5449	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Socialist Left Party and Red. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce a national housing plan to meet the housing needs throughout the country. The house bank shall be strengthened as part of ensuring people's housing needs. Public land development companies shall be built in order to ensure a level playing field in line with the plan and to ensure countercyclical demand.’;» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal to reduce the valuation discount for high-value primary dwellings compared to other primary dwellings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5471	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, by the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reform of the taxation of housing and property in Norway which removes or drastically reduces net tax subsidies on housing and property. Bottom deductions shall be provided that can cover a large proportion of primary dwellings from taxation and different models shall be outlined for the phase-in of a more complete and fair taxation of housing and property.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Board requests the Government to investigate and make any necessary proposals for amendments to the Housing Building Law which would prevent the Executive Director and central staff of housing teams from meeting as delegates at the General Assembly and that the staff of a Housing Building Team could not represent a greater proportion of the delegation to the General Assembly than 5 pst.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5496	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4-7, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to investigate and propose a model for a third non-commercial housing sector, including the necessary legislative changes to ensure that a significant proportion of new dwellings are non-commercial.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for reinforcements in the Housing Construction Teams Act which state that all members of housing teams are to receive sufficient information on participation in and effective participation in the General Assembly.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that it does not pay tax to invest in secondary housing rather than other investment objects. This shall be done through a tightening of the taxation of secondary housing and not a relaxation in other taxation.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds ‘The government is asking the government to determine how municipalities can be given room for action to tax secondary dwellings and other dwellings, such as private-owned rentals, different from primary dwellings in the use of property taxes, and to return to this ifm. State budget for 2022. Municipalities shall be given the opportunity to differentiate base deductions and the tax rate between respectively. primary, secondary and rental dwellings.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5528	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a phasing-out plan for the document fee in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to strengthen the BSU by increasing the annual savings amount that gives tax deductions and the total savings amount, in the context of the State budget for 2022.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5550	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an increase in housing development with a social profile, both in the state and in the municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5575	The Socialist Left and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5594	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5614	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Fredric Holen Bjørdal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 2-4, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 5-11, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-11, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and come back to the Storting with a long-term four-year decommissioning plan with the aim of harmonising the overall Norwegian tax on the ownership of our neighbouring country and key trading partners such as the EU, the United States and China.’ [[Company taxes, dividend taxes and property taxes]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that Norway’s relations with other countries are based more on the consideration of Norwegian investors investing globally and access to foreign capital in Norway.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a anti-crime proposal to criminalise the publication of postal code-based headlines in the tax lists.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explore the possibility of facilitating the establishment of a Norwegian VPS account by foreign actors within the framework of proper compliance with international anti-money laundering and anti-corruption rules, where Norway applies the same practices as our competitors.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to open up the share-saving arrangement to non-listed companies.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose simplifications relating to the transformation of individual enterprises into limited liability companies.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the State budget for 2022 with proposals for a scheme in which small enterprises can flag the tax message for manual review against a smaller proportion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5674	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for greater transparency in the allocation of value creation in Norway, inter alia, by removing access to the applicant in the tax lists.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5696	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2–4 from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back with a case related to how Argentum can be set up so that the original objectives of the fund are better achieved.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased coordination of supervision so that the number of hours worked in small establishments related to disruptive supervision is reduced.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy to ensure a more investment-friendly Norway by 2030, with the aim of investing both more Norwegian and foreign capital in Norwegian enterprises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5730	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 199 LS shall be returned to the Government pending the examination of the appeal for the sovereignty of Acer in the judicial system.’;» [[2020-2021]] The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5754	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5759	The Advance Party must also vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5764	Then it is the Progress Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party that will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5886	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5891	The Progress Party shall also vote against this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5897	The party of progress, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5909	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e5923	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e6250	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e6260	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-11.ana.ud260e6274	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
