ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e72	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e79	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week, and considers it to be adopted. The President will propose Kari Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kari Henriksen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e92	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will table two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e97	It's a pleasure on behalf of the big-time representatives Gisle Meininger Saudland, Sylvi Listhaug and myself to propose to secure the rights to daily allowances and sickness benefits in line with the expected retirement age of the pension reform, and on behalf of the representatives Gisle Meininger Saudland, Helge André Njåstad and myself to propose to ensure a complete Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e102	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e122	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e138	I would like to take the floor for Rule 65. An incubation has promoted an amendment to the amending law, which has already entered into force, from 1 January 2021. Thus, the law of amendment has been consumed in the main law, so that the change would actually be promoted in the main law. I therefore propose that legislative decision 65 should not be passed, and propose that changes be made instead to the main law. We make the second decision on Thursday, as I have understood. For information: This concerns the matter of functional separation, and it is a legislative matter, not a political matter. So it concerns all the parties that have promoted the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e145	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e161	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e177	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e184	I want to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee. I was just going to come back and take over as rapporteur of the case. Today, the Stortinget is dealing with this matter in a meeting of the Transport Committee with four representatives dealing with the conditions for Norwegian aviation. The Transport Committee fully agrees that aviation is an important part of Norway’s infrastructure that links Norway and provides access to the world around us, and aviation is also an important part of public transport, particularly in North Norway and on the rural short-haul network. That's when the Coronapandemy hit aviation hard. The turnover in the industry due to the pandemic has been around 26 billion in 2020. kr and continues into 2021. The journey pattern has changed, and companies have stated that they will cut the number of flight trips, even after the coronary apathy. We've also been used to working in new ways and have seen that some meetings are just as likely to be taken digitally, and it's too early to say how this will develop in the long term. But the industry itself expects it to take several years before aviation again is at a level that can be considered normal. The right and government parties show, among other things: the implementation of several measures for aviation, including: by ensuring a minimum offer throughout the country for the purchase of routes, by granting a tax exemption, by providing support to Avinor and private airports and by means of a loan guarantee scheme. The right considers that the government's assessment not to go into state aid to Norwegian at an earlier stage was wise, but we are positive to support a reconstructed Norwegian. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and Red draw up a series of comprehensive individual proposals that we believe do not take into account the whole and predictability of the industry in the future. In the Right, we believe that the challenge to aviation needs to be taken seriously. It is important for our country, and it is therefore essential that different measures and perspectives are seen in the context, precisely to ensure that Norway has a good and forward-looking flight offer. We believe that the time has come to draw up the long lines for Norwegian aviation. It's about more than getting out of the coronary crisis. Among other things, we must: look at safety, the development of travel patterns, the FOT route system and commercial profitability on the short-haul network, as well as green aviation and future level of charges and competition on a level playing field. For this reason, the Government Parties promote the proposal to present a separate notification on aviation, which has also been the subject of an overall committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on a national aviation strategy in which the ambition is to draw the lines of overall and sustainable development in Norwegian aviation.’ Several of the concerns raised around fair pay and working conditions in the proposals can also be agreed with the Right. We are concerned that we should have healthy competition on equal terms and fair pay and working conditions in aviation. We believe, however, that this is not solved by discriminating against individual actors. First of all, the right to organise is already enshrined in the Constitution, and I also want to remind you that it goes both ways. You have the right not to organize. Secondly, aviation is an international industry regulated by international rules that we are also bound by in Norway. Air carriers licensed from an EEA country are entitled to establish flights in Norway. A Joint Committee calls on the Minister for Transport to assess the national scope of action of the International Code with a view to ensuring equivalent conditions of competition, wages and working conditions in the Norwegian domestic market. The Committee has also agreed to present the following proposals: ‘The Government requests the provision of airport services to Oslo-Stord t/r and Oslo-Oerland t/r, either through a temporary solution through the FOT route scheme or through direct purchase or other agreements with the airlines.’ The right considers that an open and good competition in Norwegian aviation has been important to ensure Norwegian air passengers a better, fairer and more reliable flight offer throughout the country. So the Stortinget asks the government to present a big message, and otherwise the vote is that the representatives' proposals are not adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e218	In our seats there is a fairly comprehensive document based on four different representative proposals from representatives of four different parties. They contain a total of 28 different individual proposals, but all of them have in common, are proposing changes to government policies to secure jobs and the future of aviation actors in Norway. As co-rapporteur for the motion by the Labour Party, I must confess that this is enough of the most forward-looking and best document. These proposals have been developed in close cooperation with aviation employees and address challenges that the industry faces in these strange, pandemic times. In addition, it contains proposals that address issues that are independent of the pandemic we are in the middle of. As an example of the latter, I can mention the problem we are experiencing in domestic helicopter traffic, and we are once again making a proposal to develop a national aviation strategy in the form of a sorely intrusive forecasting message based on the NOU presented in 2019, namely NOU 2019: 22. We also propose that the business management of Avinor should ensure that the Avinor model is maintained in the future. It is a model that provides long-distance user financing for airports across the country. We now see savings and efficiency programmes weakening Avinor, and the company is constantly putting new services into competition, without the government using its ownership to control this development. We have, as I said, close contact with the employee organisations, as well as with members flying, as well as with members performing ground handling services. They shall all notify that the limit has been exceeded a long time ago in the case of activities placed on the market and thus privatised. In fact, employees report that this is now at risk of breaking down the safety that has characterized Norwegian aviation in almost all of its history. As if not enough, the pandemic has now increased the pressure on the entire industry and all their employees. We register almost empty airports, and we register minimal flights throughout the country. At the same time, new players report in a market that is normally very attractive to both existing foreign companies and a newly-started Norwegian company. Wizz Air, a Hungarian airline, and the newly launched Norwegian company named Flyr have either started flights or will start up within two to three months. These two new actors in Norway have a very different starting point for their activities. One company does not want involvement from the trade union movement, while the other says that they have had contact with employees’ organisations almost from day one. What this means for Norwegian aviation, we don't know, but all the four proposals we are dealing with today pose a concern for the seriousness of future aviation. There is some reason why the Workers' Party has proposed a big message. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State refers only to the fact that the matter has to be addressed in connection with the NTP for spring, but does not last. Fortunately, the government parties on Stortinget have realized that a big message is important, and they have proposed a message, but in a different wording than the Workers' Party has promoted. So they do not agree with the proposal put forward by the Workers' Party, but they are in favour of a different wording that does not refer to the recommendations of the NOU and the Air Safety Committee. It's incomprehensible to us. Finally, I would just like to address the proposals we are involved in the matter, and then I would like to inform you that we subsidiaryly support I in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e237	The representative Øystein Langholm Hansen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e242	Aviation is a central part of the transport service throughout the country and is particularly important for large parts of District Norway. There is a workplace for about 16 000 workers, it is spread throughout the country, and from mid-March to the end of September has over 80 pst. traffic has been lost. The turnover of the industry in 2020 was about 26 billion. kr, and approximately 16 br. kr of which is related to the three Norwegian airlines Onøe, SAS and Norwegian. Aviation is still in a deep crisis, both nationally and globally, and the situation will be serious in 2021 – most likely far beyond it as well. The industry itself expects that it will take several years before it is again at a level that can be considered normal – no matter what it may be. Through the establishment of airlines in Norway operating in a pronounced low-cost segment, there has been a clear pressure on pay and employment in Norwegian aviation. As a result, established long tradition airlines in Scandinavia have had to face this fierce price competition with measures that affect employees by the removal of acquired rights. We see a trend that new companies see the possibility of taking over market shares when the companies established in Norway are down. This is done in many ways, including: through creative business models and employment relationships that undermine the rights of employees. Travel restrictions have led to a large reduction in the demand for travel. But we also see changes in travel patterns, which will mean a lot to the future. The establishment of new airlines shows, inter alia: changing the need for business travel when several take up technological solutions. Several companies have stated that they will cut the number of flights even after the coronary apathy. It's too early to say how this will affect our future travel pattern. Continuous Norwegian aviation action packages are required for as long as necessary. You have to hang on at all times, because this changes fast. The aim of this must be to bring a socially critical industry through the crisis, so that we have a well-functioning aviation on the other side of the pandemic as well. Strict requirements must be imposed for the receipt of State resources, which must also include Avinor, through the operation of airports throughout the country. But the requirements must not be such that you have no opportunity to do anything there and then, when there is a need for it. Until now, Norwegian airlines have not received cash support of the type that other Norwegian businesses have received, but they have obtained access to a loan scheme through settlement in Stortinget. In addition, the government has purchased routes from established companies. There have been expectations that the government would come forward with further measures to deal with the aviation crisis, but it has not yet found its final solution. A contingency plan that lasts until 2021 must be put in place as soon as possible through an aviation compensation scheme, which helps Norwegian airlines remain competitive in an increasingly tougher aviation market in the future, so that Norwegian jobs are maintained, and passengers are given a good and predictable market through a coherent route throughout Norway. Norwegian jobs must be secured with an infrastructure with Norwegian-registered aircraft, Norwegian permits to fly and Norwegian membership. All the proposals put forward by these representatives describe exactly what is being said now. The members of the Committee of the Centre Party refer to the proposal of the Centre Party made on 18 November 2020: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with Norwegian with a view to finding solutions that can save the company’s Norwegian jobs and ensure the company’s services in and to/from Norway.’ This proposal was promoted with the aim of safeguarding Norwegian interests, such as Norwegian Norwegian jobs. It was a call to engage in dialogue with the company and find practical ways to solve it. The centre party is pleased that after much pressure a request decision was taken on 19 January 2021, where it among other things. said: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a compensation scheme for Norwegian carriers that have operated over time in Norway. ‘ The purpose of the scheme is also quite clearly described. Unfortunately, this has not been followed up in Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021, and there will be a job in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e266	When the aviation industry is now largely down with its broken back, it is time to think about — perhaps not long and well, but at least well. We have to make some forward-looking decisions. We have to, now is the time to do just that. We do not know what aviation will look like in one or two years' time, but I would like to remind you that there is a SV document 8 proposal in the Transport and Communications Committee that is just asking for an analysis of what the entire transport sector will look like after the corona. I think that's absolutely essential, so I'll probably come back to that proposal. We in SV have recorded three clear developments in aviation before the Corona hit us, and we're going to be obscene on all three, not least now. Firstly, it is obvious that we fly a lot in Norway — actually as much as a country with almost 50 million inhabitants, if we had been a common average country in Europe. Foreign flights have increased dramatically. I guess that's also a pretty straightforward observation, you could say that flying activity is not good for the climate. We want fossil fuels for a long time to come, unfortunately, and maybe that's why right now we're going to take action to get a greener direction on aviation as well. Secondly, with the entry of the low-cost companies into the Norwegian market – not only Ryan Air and other non-residents, but also Norwegian – something happened in Norwegian aviation. We saw that low prices and competition led to an increasing pressure on the pay and working conditions of employees. Yes, we saw that the medal had a backside. It was thought that these low prices would not go beyond anything – it has. We also soon registered that the established company SAS had to move in the same direction. The whole industry changed. Employees had to run faster, wages were frozen, pension conditions were lower, and accrued rights disappeared, one by one. We saw this. Fine solutions were hatched, with sub-companies and staff agencies from which personnel were hired, instead of having direct employees. There were conflicts and some strikes, but most were shackled because of clever grips related to the form of organisation. Third, we see that for those who might need flights the most, North Norway and the network, prices are still the highest. This is the background we went into the coronary situation with, and then the pandemic came. It is hardly necessary to describe its consequences – most representatives know how this has been done in aviation. SV and many with us were afraid of what was going to happen. Who would throw themselves over this ashtray — to put it that way — to look for values, materials, employees and markets in Norway, especially the last? Then, in a way, what we feared happened: actors we would rather not have had into the Norwegian market, sucked in. I think first of all about Wizz Air. Yes, as you manage, you're lying. It's a good expression to use here. The air is for everyone. The majority here in the Chamber have so warmly desired the four freedoms in the market, but many of the proposals that the opposition has made here in the Chamber and in the context of the matter here today are an attempt to govern, tame or stop this company from pursuing anti-union activities and social dumping. Then we have to try all the angles in the action space that we have in the EEA. There are many suggestions in this matter to get to that very thing. SV is occupied by all Norwegian aviation employees – we are – but we believe that we cannot now provide unconditional support to the aviation industry, as the government and the majority of the population have done so far. The economic conditions have been set, and there are structural requirements, etc., that apply to Norwegian. This is good, but environmental conditions have been largely absent. SV believes that we must now use the option of picking the right solutions and preparing the industry for the future, i.e. having a device that goes in a competitive, green direction. That is why we have many proposals on this. At the end of this article, I will address the proposals that SV has alone, and then I will come back with an explanation of vote on the Red's loose proposal. We will also vote in favour of I and II in the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e287	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e292	It's almost a year since the pandemic came and the shut-down happened, and it was not surprising that there was a strong outburst of business and also the offer to people in transporting themselves. I think the government has solved the problem in a very good way. One has gone in and bought flights, so that it has actually been possible to get a flight from Alta, from Kirkenes, yes, from all over the country. Small airports, which are so important for the districts where no alternative is available, have also been maintained at a reasonably good level. I don't think that's where it's been broken to be able to offer a quote to companies and also to private individuals, health consultations and the like. I fly a lot between Trondheim and Oslo. Before the shutdown, 27 planes went one way a day, now there's five. But it's just half full planes. It was full planes when it was 27, now it's half full planes. It's not a problem to get from Trondheim to Oslo if you're just a little flexible about when you can travel, and you can be in those times. Then, of course, there has been strong criticism from the opposition in terms of contingency plans beyond the purchase of air routes. It concerns cash support, compensation, as the representative of the Central Party mentioned in his post, and also how to handle the case around Norwegian. Norwegian turned out to have very large debts. They were under restructuring – yes, the companies and the airlines have done a lot to get out of the situation they were in before the pandemic, too, but it had not at all been right to buy in at that time, such as. The centre party was an avid number game for this summer or last autumn. I think it has been a wise assessment of the government. One now assesses whether one might have to enter and participate in a restructuring with some state resources, but it cannot be that the state should own airlines in Norway. The representative Arne Nävra spoke a lot about the future, and the Left shares some of the views on the environmental aspect of aircraft. I have hope and faith in the modern, maybe a little bit less, the planes that may eventually become electrical – yes, not just maybe, they will – but anyway, that's what the question is. I hope now that the research and test set-up around the electric planes will not stop. But nothing indicates that yet, and I hope that we will get an offer in three or maybe eight years. That's what's the challenge here: how long does it take for these planes to start operating, especially on the short-haul network? It may be that we, the passengers, who are applying for flights, are becoming more concerned with frequency, as in public transport, that we are getting from one destination to another, instead of being so big a plane. That's when the future of electric planes lies there, and I hope it doesn't stop. If it turns out that it does, you might have to be even more eager to participate in that research development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e303	Wizz Air has established itself in Norway on the most profitable domestic routes. At a press conference when they were established in Norway, the company clearly rejected the fact that it is appropriate to conclude a collective agreement with trade unions whose company is to have employees in Norway. We are an airline without trade unions," said the Wizz Air manager. There are many examples of the company being anti-union and actively countering trade organisation. We could read in the Free Trade Movement about Mircea Constantin, which started a trade union for employees in Romania in 2014. It cost him and 18 other jobs. After many years of loss, the employees won the Supreme Court, and Wizz Air had to give Constantin the job back, but on a lower salary than he had before. And when Wizz Air resigned many employees, with the coronary crisis as a reason, Constantine was among them lost the job. We saw several similar stories when the A magazine wrote about the matter in November. Among other things, it said:‘They had minor disagreements with management, tried to form a trade union or to deal with problems. Today they are all without a job in Wizz Air." Of those with whom the A magazine then spoke, many thought that Wizz Air used the Corona crisis as a pretext to get rid of trade unionists, too soon after they lost their jobs, the company wanted new jobs. In addition to trade unionism, the company also engages in gross social dumping. As DN wrote in November: Wizz Air pilots “can be cancelled by day”. It is obvious that Wizz Air is in violation of ILO Convention No. 87 on the freedom of association and the protection of the right of association, and that alone gives Norway reason to refuse to fly on Norwegian domestic routes. Statnett will not use Wizz Air as a provider of air services for itself and its employees and say so: ‘It is not a boycott, but as simple as all our suppliers have to deal with an ethical code in order to be approved. That legislation provides, inter alia, for the organisation and facilitation of collective agreements. And Wizz Air doesn't." The State should follow the example of Statnett and use its power and ownership to limit Wizz Air’s activities in Norway as much as possible as long as they counter trade union organisation. The government does, the government uses its power of ownership when it imposes claims when the government buys routes through the crisis packages. It is well and good, and that requirement will probably also exclude Wizz Air from the tender, for those participating in the tender, must ensure basic trade union rights. Then we believe that the state must follow up the criticism of Wizz Air in the media and be tougher against companies that violate professional rights. When it is possible for the State to impose requirements on the use of money through a crisis package, it is obvious that it can and should impose similar requirements when ordering travel to national employees and state businesses, which are now proposed by Red. As long as Wizz Air's business undermines the Norwegian model, the government has to do everything in its power to limit the company's operations. Ensuring decent remuneration and working conditions in aviation is the most important task for the Stortinget today, but we must also, in Red's view, take into account important communities, in particular as regards the critical situation of the Haugesund airport. That airport is crucial for both industry and business in North Rogaland and Sunnhordland. Now it's in danger of being laid down because of the corona situation. It is currently operated by the company Airport Operations AS. The government should engage in dialogue with Airport Operation AS with the aim of purchasing them out of the current operating agreement at Haugesund Airport, Karmøy, so that we ensure that both the people and business in the region retain this important infrastructure even after the pandemic, and in safe state operation and ownership. It helps to make it possible to live, work and create values across our country. I bring this to the attention of Red in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e327	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e333	Today, when we are dealing with these four different representative proposals, one can add the credit and think that apparently several of the proposals are well thought to be. But as far as aviation is concerned, there's not a normal, ordinary government shift within the country's borders. It may seem that more people who are now making a number of proposals are concerned about aviation. I think everyone is. However, when introducing intervention comes from the same batches that have also raised increased charges and almost bans on aviation, it becomes a bit special and a little hollow. In particular, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party and SV will have a minimum price. Then you can wonder: Should you also have a maximum price? I think it is very special if the state should go in and regulate pricing in aviation, and what a flight will cost. The state has been the owner of a company before, and then we had a monopoly – SAS. When Norwegian got on the track, it was, at least for the Progress Party, very good. It was a happiness, there was competition in aviation, which brought prices down and increased mobility to District Norway, which is also the center party. The Progress Party has been busy all the way. Competition has always worked. You could imagine if you were going to start going in, like the Workers' Party and SV would, and set a minimum price on what an air trip is going to cost, that the accumulation and government are going to start defining it. Yes, what should clothing really cost? I think everyone is to have healthy, good competitive conditions on a level playing field. It must also be borne in mind that aviation is an international industry, it is an international one. We have companies that have helped bring prices down in Norway, which have also fled abroad, and which have sometimes also been controversial among other parties – not the Progress Party, we have been in competition. There is no doubt that aviation is in a very difficult situation and has done so for a long time. And yes, the government has come up with measures, which the Progress Party has often thought has been too late. Air travel is so much. It's not just airlines. But how do you help the airlines? There is no uniform structure and organisation of companies. They are organised differently. Maybe we should be happy about that too. But that we're going to find a solution to make sure that it's also aviation after the coronary ape anemia, I think everyone agrees on that. Aviation is in addition airports and all those providing services to them. And yes, the Progress Party has repeatedly criticized the government for coming too late or not bringing anything at all – for example Torp Airport. Now you clearly believe that they have received the money they need, and then you will see if it is needed later. We all know that the need is there. That is why the Progress Party is clear here: we agree that we must come up with a strategy and agree with the government parties that we must have a plan for aviation further. We will also support proposal No. 14, where the government is asked to submit an aviation crisis plan for 2021. There is no doubt that this crisis in aviation will not stop this summer, it will last the whole year. So that is what we want to support. I would strongly warn those who want the state to intervene and manage transport companies: what's next? It is the same parties that have criticised companies in the heavy-duty industry, where the State is indirect owner. This is clearly going to be done with aviation. I strongly advise against that. We're going to make sure that it's a good arrangement, that companies and aviation survive the pandemic, but we're going to stay far away from starting to rule and dictate the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e350	It is a demanding time for both Norwegian and international aviation, and the commitment to the Storting is great: there are four representatives with 28 proposals. I'm going to focus on the main lines of the proposals that are here. The first is what goes on on employees' rights, and in practice this is about the consequences of ultra-low-cost companies trying to establish themselves in the Norwegian domestic market for the first time. We still don't know what extent this will or can get, but it's both about the rights of those who work in the industry, and about the need to ensure a level playing field between the airlines. But only if the airlines respect the playthings that apply can we talk about fair competition. In a sector where service margins are very small even under normal conditions, even small differences can determine who will win. That's why the government in Prop has. 79 S for 2020-2021 announced that we will implement the rules on pay and working conditions for flying personnel and other legal provisions affecting personnel-related costs. So what are the most central issues in such an arrangement? Firstly, it is important to clarify how long personnel must work in Norway before Norwegian rules apply to them, i.e. before they can submit claims for Norwegian courts. Some of the most central rules on rights addressed by the representative proposals are the rules on addition, more specifically on fixed addition, on the use of hired personnel and the use of self-employed flying personnel. And by using new forms of addition that have not been common in Norwegian aviation until now, it is likely possible to significantly reduce staff-related costs, both permanently and during seasonal fluctuations. I aim to ensure that an award is made, among other things: to provide us with better knowledge of what is paid to Norwegian domestic workers, employers’ fees, social security contributions and personal income tax to Norway. The representative proposals also address the right to pay for flying personnel working in Norway. As they know, we have not chosen to have general government rules on minimum pay in Norway, and I understand that this is a line that the trade unions are behind. Instead, the right to pay should be governed by collective agreements. The representative's proposals also address the right to organise. I have done well for my meeting with the head of Wizz Air, where he made it clear that the right to organize is fundamental and will be respected. If Wizz Air doesn't stick to it, it's very serious. Finally, I would like to mention that the Ministry of Transport has requested that the air carriers which are awarded a contract to operate state-aided air routes from 1 March should ensure compliance with the two most important ILO Conventions on Workers’ Rights. I would also like to say something about the compensation scheme for the airlines. Some of the proposals are just about that. First of all, I have to point out what the government has said in Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021. First of all, the core of what it says is that Norwegian has to find a solution with its creditors before further wide-ranging measures are in place. As the Storting itself has expressed in its appeal decision No. 533, one must avoid government funds going to the creditors of the company. Secondly, the government provides an overview of the very significant values of all the different sector-specific and general state measures for Norwegian airlines. I'm not going to go into all of these now, but it's going to be $10 billion. Thirdly, the State continued its exceptional purchases of necessary air routes. In addition to the regular FOT routes, we buy a minimum range of routes that society needs and that are currently not commercially viable. Although the purpose of these schemes is to ensure the needs of travellers, they also have the power to ensure the survival of Norwegian airlines – and thus Norwegian jobs. And fourthly, the government will review the arrangements on a compensation scheme for the airlines when the need for minimum bids is significantly reduced, and when the reconstruction in Norwegian is completed. The Government proposes that part of the funds allocated to the purchase of air routes be used for an air carrier compensation scheme if deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e383	Helicopter transport on a Norwegian base must be said to be the safest helicopter traffic in the world. Fortunately, it is very rare that negative events occur in connection with transportation to and from the installations. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the work on line construction, snow clearance and other work, for example: domestic energy industry. That's where the economy often trumps security. Even in some cases, aviation organisations call it cowboy activities. I wonder if the Council of State finds it difficult to improve the procedures for purchasing domestic helicopter services. Why is it so difficult to create equivalent security in the transport of domestic traffic? And what can and will the Council of State do, except ‘to have dialogue with the Ministry of Oil and Energy’?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e390	This is a problem for the oil and energy minister and the signatures had met with LO about last week, because we see that the helicopter transport in our offshore industry is fantastic from a security perspective. We think we have something to learn there, so we want to look at what possibilities we have, when it applies to both changes in the rules and the requirements of those who buy services. For example, Statnet and Statkraft also have the possibility to give some of the guided tours that buy that type of service. I feel that there is a good dialogue. This is the work of the oil and energy minister and I want to look at, for example. how we can learn from the offshore sector about some of the same requirements. We're not sure if there's to be a change in the law, or if it's going to keep the market setting some of the same requirements that we do in the offshore industry. Offshore industry is exempt from EEA rules, and it makes things a little easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e397	I thank you for your answer. So to a question that I put in writing to the Council of States, to a statement that eight European Ministers of Transport and Social Affairs point out that the crisis we are facing shows that aviation has a great deal of dysfunction. In reply, the Council of State writes that he shares his view on the content of the statement: ‘The short answer is that the content of the declaration is entirely consistent with the policy on which I am working in this area: Fair competition and decent work based on the Norwegian work model are two sides of the same issue.’ [[...]] Does the State Council continue to believe, as demonstrated by his response to the Committee of 27 November, that it is a bad idea to draw up a paper based on the recommendations of the Air Committee in NOW 2019: 22?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e411	I would like to thank you for that question, because in my script I would say that we will sign the international declaration. We've been invited to sign it. That's what we want to do. And I think this whole hall will agree with the one that we're so clear about here. So to the issue of aviation strategy. I think coming up with that kind of strategy in the autumn of 2021/ Spring of 2022 is the right time. Then I hope we see another situation related to covid-19. It was delivered a significant work through the NOU that we received in the autumn of 2019. So we've had an exceptional state in aviation, and I think it's a good time to draw the future picture in the autumn of 2021/ Spring of 2022, depending on what picture we're looking at now. I think we need to move on to a more normal situation before we can form the future image of a Norwegian aviation strategy, and I am fully behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e420	On 19 January 2021, the Commission decided to establish a compensation scheme for Norwegian carriers operating over time in Norway — Decision 533. In the proposition put forward on 29 January, there were some descriptions of how the government regards such a scheme, among other things. that it shall be ‘forward-looking’. Does the Council of State think it fair for aviation, unlike other industries, not to be compensated for losses since 12 March?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e425	We have provided significant compensation through all the measures we have taken for aviation in 2020. The amount was between 13 billion. kr and 14 br. Total NOK Of course, there are measures for aviation to maintain airports, there were tax breaks, there was a separate loan guarantee facility for the companies, and not least the purchase of air routes. I think it's right that we look forward to the compensation scheme that we think is natural, and it's natural to bring it when we step down the flight route purchase, when we get into a more normal situation. But the most important thing is that we don't come up with a compensation scheme that destroys the restructuring that is now under way in Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e430	It was probably not that we in the Progress Party were quite satisfied that the government did not come up with a compensation scheme that the Stortinget had clearly stated that it wanted to be put in place. Governments know that there is something the Progress Party is concerned about that we need, because we want to have an aviation that will be there in the future as well. But I would like to ask the Council of State if he agrees with me on one of the proposals, namely proposal No. 18, where a minority in the Committee, the Workers' Party and the SV, wish to set a minimum price on air travel. The whole purpose is to get rid of some of the low-cost companies. But doesn't the Council of State agree that as long as you only set a minimum price, does that mean that some can actually have fewer passengers, but equally good revenues? That means that part of the companies can fly with fewer passengers, and it's a bad deal if you're busy reducing emissions? It could be interesting if the government would say something about how he looks at it, as long as you just want to set a minimum price, and that there are no fees to the state or others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e435	I would like to say that we are working on this with the compensation scheme. A decision was made here on 19 January, but that was also very clear on one thing: that compensation scheme should not go to creditors and shareholders. We are concerned that this type of compensation mechanism is intended to ensure companies and jobs in Norway. We're working on it. The main reason why we haven't come up with this is because we don't want to ruin the important work Norwegian is now inside. That's what I think is an important commitment. When it comes to the representative, Hoksrud says, I believe that neither minimum nor maximum prices are the right way to do this. We have some leads for the FOT routes, where we have set a controlling maximum price level. I think it's a wise way to do it when we're inside from the state's side, but I think there's other mechanisms we're going to focus on. I am pleased that the representative of Hoksrud is concerned with the environmental perspective of aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e443	I assume that I will not get a reply from the representative Hoksrud, so I can take it to the Council of State. It is not that easy to talk about environmental taxes at the time we are in. It's a difficult job, but we have to talk about it anyway – in the future it requires, as I also said in my post. What SV has tried to do for a long time is find entrances to protect the short-range network for charging increases when we think about the environment. We have to think like that after the corona, definitely. So my question to the Council of State is, why can't he and the government consider introducing different measures on the charging side that protect the short-haul network and flights to North Norway? We now have more proposals, including: with regard to the number of tonnes of weight and also the 30 pst tax rebate. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e452	I share with the representative Nävra his stand, that in the very special situation for aviation now, it is really hard to think about tax increases. But we have to think longer than that, about the situation we're going to have after the corona. There is now a climate announcement that points to an increase in CO 2 tax. I think it's very good to see how successful it can be, because then it's going to be to force the electric fluke, which we know Norway is all in front of. Then an increased CO 2 fee will mean that the very short-range network will be completely unique and well-organised for just maybe getting the first electric fly in the world in Norway. These are not just words from a Norwegian Minister for Transport, but from the European organisations that Norway is at the forefront. We just have to set the click on that work. That's the most important thing, and I think the extra CO 2 tax is very important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e468	The Government recently called on companies to participate in tenders when buying routes through the crisis packages to ensure basic trade union rights. It is good for the state to use its ownership to ensure fundamental rights in the labour market. Obviously, when we are able to make demands on the use of money through the crisis packages, the state should also be able to make demands when ordering trips to state employees and state businesses, which is what Red proposes. Will Hareide follow up on what he said after the meeting with Wizz Air, namely ‘I will use my room for action in the future to take the workers seriously’? Will Hareide ensure that the same requirements as those in the crisis packages are also met when ordering trips to state employees and state businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e475	It is true that a Minister for Transport has a responsibility for transport services and how we get the infrastructure, but it is clear that the legislation that applies to everyone in the state for the way in which you work is probably under the responsibility of departments other than the Ministry of Transport. We would like to have that responsibility sometimes, but I believe it is actually also an advantage that we, who are responsible for the transport, do not, for example, have responsibility for neither municipalities, state nor state. I have noticed what the Prime Minister has said. I'm totally in agreement with her. I don't want to travel with them myself. The companies are allowed to operate in line with that legislation, but for me it was important to incorporate the requirements of the ILO Conventions on Workers' Rights. It's a challenge that Wizz Air says they stick to this – but do they do it in practice? That's the big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e482	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e489	In a long-term country such as Norway, aviation is crucial. I registered that Gunnes' representative thought there were not so many challenges at this time, because the number of flights from Trondheim to Oslo was sufficient for him. But the aviation situation creates challenges for people and businesses in Norway every day. It is not that industrial workers or fish to be produced can be transferred via Teams. It is a matter of having a well-functioning flight offer in our long-range country. Air travel has been hit hard. It was immediately hit by the closure of Norway in March last year and will also be among the industries that are hardest hit over time. It is little wonder that one has still not established a compensation scheme for aviation, as one has for other hard hit industries in Norway. I hear once again from the Council of State that one should not put money into anything to care for the owners and creditors. No, and that's the same thing as for all industries. Nevertheless, one must have a compensation scheme for those who are severely affected. On 7 April last year, we dealt with a broad compensation scheme covering tens of thousands of businesses in different industries, where it is also important that the money should not go to owners or creditors. No, they're going to save jobs, they're going to save businesses. Similarly, it is important in aviation. I live in Rome and see the great consequences of the situation in aviation. Ullensåg and Nannestad now have among Norway’s highest unemployment rates because of those working in the airlines, but also because of all those who depend on the activity on the Gardermoen and its ringing effects. Therefore, it is essential to put in place a compensation scheme. Then it's also important to make clear demands. What is interesting is that the Government Parties and their Support Party The Progress Party have for the first time refused to introduce an aviation compensation scheme, but they have also voted for every proposal in this Chamber which has gone to make clear requirements relating to aviation crisis measures. It's a little perceptible. It was good that in January the Progress Party finally agreed to demand a compensation scheme for aviation. However, when we present today a number of proposals for clear requirements relating to the rights of employees and not using flags of convenience, the Progress Party is not involved. Now we have to put in place a compensation scheme with clear requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e500	The pandemic has turned into a lot of Norwegian society, and aviation is an industry that has really got to feel the winds of change. Saying that it has been turbulence is not descriptive enough. The airline was hit hard and abruptly when Norway shut down. One of the main constraints of the authorities was to avoid unnecessary mobility. Mobility is the core of aviation activity – moving people from one location to another. Of course, this shock closure had a major impact on both airlines, employees and passengers. When only completely necessary journeys were to be made, the number of passengers fell. Aviation is necessary for the country to be linked. Without aeroplanes it is not possible to travel to and from Finnmark if not the whole week to go. Without planes we have to do like my grandfather, who came into the Stortinget in 1945, when he went home. He went to Trondheim the first day, and saw the Hurtigruta to Havøysund, which took three days. So the trip took four days. It meant that he just went home for Christmas, in the summer and perhaps for Easter. Fortunately, it's not like that now. We have mobility, and we gradually have technology to make this mobility more environmentally friendly. During this period, the authorities have purchased routes to ensure an flight offer throughout the country. It has been absolutely necessary to maintain a minimum offer, not least from north to south. And I can see with self-esteem when I travel by plane from Alta to Oslo, that these routes are not profitable. There are only a few passengers. We rely on the state to buy routes for the country to link, as the situation is now. North Norway is the country's most dependent area on aviation. Distances are long, and alternative travel modes are both few and much more time consuming. The starting point of the working party has been to ensure a continued satisfactory route offer throughout Norway, but also the consideration of the airlines, the employees and those on leave. The airlines operating with a Norwegian operating licence prior to the corona epidemic are in a special position. We hear arguments from new players about fair competition, but how fair is it if one company owns a whole fleet of aircraft on the ground, and a newcomer can lease planes that have probably never been more reasonable than now? We should take into account competition, but we should never have four demands on Norwegian wage and working conditions, our high level of safety and the Avinor model, which ensures an airport structure that can serve the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e515	There will be days after this pandemic. Norway's geography and commodity-based value creation and housing patterns make us much more dependent on air transport than many other countries. Aviation is critical for our business and especially for the export industries and travel. Aviation also represents significant employment, in the form of both direct and indirect employment, about 60000 persons in Norway. In addition, aviation is important for the well-being of people, through travel for medical treatment and to keep in touch with family. SAS laid down the crew-bases in Trondheim and Stavanger now in January. The closures make it difficult for SAS staff to continue living where they live. Low-cost companies with better equity and worse conditions for employees force themselves. It undermines the Norwegian model and market for the serious players. The right to organise and proper conditions for employees must be required of the authorities. We are facing a dramatic conversion of aviation. It's going to be a tough fight for both domestic routes and direct routes abroad. We are also at risk of getting to and from our parts of the country after the pandemic. After 11 September it took one and a half years for traffic to return to its previous level. Now much more flights have disappeared in Europe. In addition, we have new meeting habits, and climate awareness is increasing. So we're going to change aviation for a period of less solid companies, large profits and probably falling traffic due to habits and climate awareness. It is therefore difficult to understand that the government parties will not go into a single one of our proposals that deal with this. We have to build Norway even after the pandemic. Norwegian value creation in the future depends on us doing the right things now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e526	Both Norwegian and international aviation are in an exceptional situation due to the pandemic. It makes it demanding in many ways for airlines, passengers and employees – all who depend on these services in their daily lives – and not least for our business around the country. Since March we have been in continuous crisis management for Norwegian aviation. Storing and government in good cooperation on different measures has implemented very many types of schemes that are precisely a powerful compensation for aviation to ensure that we maintain such an important infrastructure. This applies not least to early-stage liquidity assistance, in the case of aid to Avinor, to additional grants to Avinor to maintain an airport structure throughout the country, to the maintenance of the FOT route system where it is not commercially viable to fly, in the case of tax exemptions and reductions carried out on a large scale, and not least to the purchase of minimum routes to ensure that, in a demanding situation where significantly fewer flights operate, we maintain a minimum of infrastructure and air route provision. So here are very many types of compensation measures that have been implemented continuously, in an ongoing crisis management for this industry. In addition, the Council of State has notified that a compensation scheme is to be assessed in addition to this. I think that might make sense, but I want to point out again that if we had followed the advice of the Central Party in this, it is not certain that we had seen a restructured and sustainable Norwegian after the aviation crisis. There must also be a matching of this in such a way that we can have sustainable, up-to-date airlines when this pandemic strikes. There is a need for a separate air navigation message, we see that too. So much is happening in Norwegian aviation. This means that we need an aviation message that has both economic, social and environmental sustainability in it – economic to ensure equivalent, good competition and to maintain a good offer that is not a basis for competition, social to ensure pay and working conditions and good conditions for employees and those who are to provide services to aviation, and we also need to ensure a sustainable transition to more environmental aviation. All of this is justified in our proposal for a decision. The NOU that is created will of course be a good starting point, but here there is a need for further investigations to form a picture of what the situation is like after the pandemic, in order to get an overall and good approximation to such an aeronautical message. I am delighted to be able to participate in that work. I see that there is absolutely a need for it, and it will provide a good basis for the further development of an important infrastructure for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e537	This debate should focus on short-term measures, because aviation is in a very special and totally exceptional situation, and the debate should focus on longer-term policies and long-term objectives for aviation, which are a very important industry. In Norway, we have daily scheduled flights at many and forty airports. It says something about the importance of aviation in Norway. Aviation policy is transport policy, it is industrial policy, and it is district policy. That is why we in the Labour Party have called for an aviation strategy from the government, i.e. an overall strategy and overall objectives for aviation, because we need a functioning aviation. Of course, it's not about the state taking over and operating airlines, as I heard someone mention – no, it's about the policy to be pursued, what policy framework conditions we have to have for aviation to function. Denmark has an aviation strategy. I would recommend to those who participate in the debate, to read the Danish aviation strategy, because it is very interesting. It was developed by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance in cooperation. It is clear that when the Danes see that they need such a strategy, we should also have it in Norway. I am therefore pleased that today there is a majority in favour of the government presenting such a strategy to the Stortinget. Then I would like to say to the representatives of Stordalen and Hoksrud, who say that it is proposed that there should be a minimum price for air tickets: No, we have not proposed that, we have suggested that it be investigated, as one has done in Austria. I'll be honest to say that I'm not sure if it's a good move – it has advantages, and it has disadvantages. I have e.g. See that the trade union Parat, which organises in aviation, is skeptical at such a minimum price. Other trade unions are positive, and business organisations are also shared. I'm not sure if it's a proper tool, but it would be interesting to look into it. Then I would like to say that it is very special that the government and the government parties cannot reach an agreement with the opposition on one single proposal. There are almost 30 proposals in the case. The only thing is the proposal on aviation strategy, but even there, the government parties have to change the wording a little, one cannot agree with the wording contained in the original proposal. I find it a pity that there is so little interest in making broad alliances to ensure good solutions for aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e550	I'll continue a little bit where I left off in the first post, and then I'll elaborate a little bit on the line I had to the council. We in SV think we need to use the opportunity to think a little bit long-term and think about the situation after the corona, also in terms of environmental taxes in aviation. That is why we have made several proposals on this, for example. to take up again the proposal that has been presented in England, this with the frequency flyer charge, i.e. a kind of progressive charge. We have to carry this on. There will be a time after the Corona, and I think this should have been evaluated. It is therefore in proposal No. 20 in the case today. We may not be able to escape the fact that the air passenger charge has to be raised, and it probably has to be increased progressively in order to change travel habits in aviation. But at the same time, we have to try to take care of those airports and those passengers that are most exposed to high prices, for example. the short track network and travel to and from North Norway. This is obvious. Everyone who has traveled there knows that those prices are high enough. How are we gonna do that? That's what I really asked the Council of State about in the line. He then referred to electric planes coming. Yeah, maybe in 10 years. It's okay, we're fully aware of it, but how are we going to manage to increase passenger charges and avoid this coercion we have in the EEA context? How are we gonna do this? So we're not allowed to differentiate the charges within the country. That's our big challenge. We've been trying to figure out angles, and we've made some suggestions. These were the concrete suggestions I had hoped the Council of State could respond to – if the government in his department could not find out. That was the big question. I know that a lot of people here in the hall are busy with the flight prices northwards. Why can't we agree to investigate it then, what is in proposal No. 19? I'm asking the whole hall to think about that. Then there is the issue of ownership of important infrastructure in Norway. It's clear that there's a lot of different layers here. SV was of the opinion that we should not sell ourselves out of SAS' share when the last part was sold out. We believe that the safest way to steer Norwegian aviation in a direction that is politically desired is to have a state ownership, and through active ownership management. We have meant this in different contexts, and we have put in a proposal asking the government to take some action and start negotiations in that direction. I just want to give an explanation of vote – which is clear enough: SV will vote in favour of all Red's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e568	For the Progress Party, aviation is incredibly important, and we want to have good infrastructure in all areas of transport, throughout the country. But it is not that all the proposals made by the opposition are good. The representative Myrli now says they're just going to investigate proposals for a minimum price, and that it might be a bad idea. Yes, then you can see why you do not vote in favour of the proposal, when it is a cruelly bad idea. It's funny that the Council of State says he likes my environmental exposure. My point is that I think it is good that there are passengers on the planes instead of that they are going to run empty. I think it's good for aviation and not least for the airlines, but there are probably others who are more concerned about it – I think I also said that there are others who are most concerned about it. Then it should be good that there are people on the planes. It's interesting to hear the representatives from the Center Party, and especially outside. So you said a long time ago that you wanted to have a system for Norwegian. I think what Norwegian has done and is doing is very good, because the company had to do something about its debt. But for the Central Party, it is obvious that you can stand with the petrol pump and just pump money into the one side that goes straight out on the other, right into bond companies and loan companies outside the big world, which do not ensure and ensure that we have Norwegian jobs, which the Progress Party is concerned that we should have in aviation. That is why we want to put in place good arrangements for the airlines. It's important. I also want to tell the representative Myrli that he has not come to realize that there is at least one opposition proposal that the government parties support. It is a proposal that there is agreement, namely that we must now ensure that Stord and Ørland also have regular services. I'm glad – especially for Stord – because it's about our business, it's about the ability to transport people to and from, and for business it means a lot. Then it's a little fun to hear the kind of concern the representative Nävra and SV have. It's actually a party that would like to see most of the air transport gone. But it's a little like doing what many people do with their horse: you put a little food in the bowl, and when the time has gone by, and you've come to spend so much money – as SV is now for us to use to secure aviation – yes, you have to kill the horse. That's a bad idea. The Progress Party does not want to kill aviation. We want to have aviation, and we want to facilitate and ensure that we have an aviation now, because we need it with the geography we have in Norway. We also want to have an aviation that can be forward-looking, with Norwegian jobs in aviation when we get past the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e585	As I said before, ensuring a viable aviation industry with infrastructure, jobs and predictable framework conditions throughout the country is the goal. That's the goal now, and that's the goal after the pandemic. Of course, it's going to be a huge challenge, because in parts of the country, no matter how you turn it around, it's a limited customer base, but it's 100 pst. depending on the functioning of aviation. Whether you're concerned with a green shift or not, as we are also of course – electrification of aircraft is just positive – you're stubbornly dependent on that structure. If we're going to have a chance to do that, it has to be a continuous dialogue. As the Minister for Transport said, he is responsible for transport, and the companies are responsible for providing services. Then there must be only one goal here in the world, and that is to preserve the elements we can operate with. Then, of course, we can say that they can be downloaded from all over the world, because they exist. They're probably delivering services cheaper, too. But we in the Center Party, and many others, are concerned that this represents jobs we have to secure for the future. That is the question of the risk to be met when there is a crisis. If you ever have to take risks, it's probably in a crisis. The representative of Hoksrud thought that the money was being injected only across and into China, while the representative of the place had a slightly different way of expressing himself. But there is no doubt that already in the autumn Norwegian had presented one package after another for how to reconstruct their own company. The fact that the Center Party started that discussion, I think both Norwegian and the others can be happy, and that perhaps now you can find a solution that is good for the company. Finally, I just want to say that the agreements that have emerged here, among other things. We are very pleased with what is happening to Stord and Ørland. I think it's important that we show care to these small airports too – if you can call them that – and that they have framework conditions that enable them to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e596	I think it has been a very nice, factual and good debate on Norwegian aviation here in the Chamber today. That's what I think I've been really nice to hear. I think Norwegian aviation deserves such a review even when we don't have a coronary crisis, because aviation is incredibly important to large parts of our country. We in the Right are not so afraid to impose increased charges on air carriers or to reduce people's mobility. We want to have a good flight offer in the future as well. I notice that the other party may not be equally concerned about maintaining people's mobility, but aviation is an important part of people's mobility, including in the districts. We also believe that an open and good competition in Norwegian aviation has been important to ensure a better offer for Norwegian passengers. We've got more reasonable tickets. Many of us, especially we who come from District Norway, remember when SAS had State monopoly. There were some huge prizes. We don't want to go back to that time. We have received a more reasonable and reliable flight offer throughout the country. There are two things we are discussing today. That's the coronary crisis, and that's the long-term flight offer we're going to have after the coronary crisis. It is therefore important that the conditions for aviation continue to facilitate this through the coronary crisis and after the corona crisis. A review of the FOT route offer is also important when the situation begins to normalise. Then it is also important to ensure a good flight offer on that part of the runway network that is not covered by commercial flights. That's where we have challenges considering that it's not profitable. In the Right we are concerned with neat conditions in aviation and competition on equal terms. When we vote against some of the representatives' proposals, there are several reasons for this. Some proposals are already being considered in the Ministry of Transport, some proposals are to open doors, and other proposals it is natural to consider overall and comprehensively in the context of a big message. We want a big message to be as independent as possible, so we don't want to link it to the NOU, where it is, among other things. it says that one wants to look at the decommissioning of some non-profitable district airports or see it in the context of the now emerging coronary crisis. A big message has also been received, the climate message, which needs to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e611	I use to say that I was born on a warrant in the defense, and that eventually I landed in the Urland. Then the hall understands what I'm going to do. Our ability to defend depends on the competence of the employees. When a flight offer has not been seen in connection with national interests and investments in a fighter aircraft base, this has been incredibly frustrating. For almost eight years, the municipality has spent millions operating an airport, and the defense has covered the tower service and made airstrips available. Only last year, when the county was to take over grants to non-governmental airports, the Workers' Party was able to obtain full funding for the operation of the airport. With the 2012 fighter base decision, pending inclusion in the FOT routes and the call for tenders, an annual grant was granted to the airport and to the municipality, which was a partner in an air carrier. The subsidy cut down on the current government and there have been two bidding rounds on FOT routes after which Ørland has not even been assessed. Over the years, the Workers' Party has made several proposals that the State should take responsibility and not leave it to municipalities, businesses and count on how the Defence is to provide its employees. The Transport Committee has also been on the battle base and looked at this, and I am extremely pleased that a unanimous committee is now finally asking the government to provide an air route offer both between Oslo and Stord and between Oslo and Ørland, either as part of the FOT routes, or through direct purchase or direct dialogue with an airline. With the decision that the Stortinget is making today, I hope that we release new rounds, and that Ørland and the Defense get predictability both during the pandemic and afterwards. Our defenses cannot depend on commercial profitability or be weakened by a pandemic. I noticed that the representative Hoksrud mentioned Stord specifically and not Ørland, but I still thank him for the support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e630	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e635	The representative Hoksrud can be colorful and funny, and he gets something out in most. It basically prolongs the debate, and makes me always come up to the pulpit like that in the last few years. I'm glad there's talk of animals in the hall, and he said that I'm tracking a horse that's to be killed afterwards. We can talk about ostrich, too. The strut steps its head deep into the sand and does not see any of the environmental problems around us – see nothing! I'm not going to mention who this ostrich is. But I think it's sad to think about it with the price level, when, for example, he does. I mentioned that we might have had minimum prices and propose an investigation. Yeah, let's do that. It is on a proposal from Austria, and we see that several countries in Europe also assess it. Does the representative Hoksrud mean that you can have a price system that allows you to go to Tallinn and cut your hair, and that it will pay off? Does he think it's a reasonable pricing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e644	I think it has been a good debate that shows a great commitment to Norwegian aviation. I believe that the representative Sverre Myrli is quite right: we need both short-term measures and more long-term measures, and that is more of the long-term measures we should look at closely. I still want to take the floor. It was the representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik and the representative Bengt Fasteraune who pointed out that it is only for us to make clear demands, just to engage in dialogue, just to promise compensation. It sounds very good, but we know how that type of company is organized today, and we know that had we done it, it would have been an outstretched hand to Chinese leasing companies, to American banks. That's why I have to give tribute to the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV, who have acted in a completely different way, who have ensured that the reconstruction of Norwegian can be far more successful than if we were too impatient. The representative of Persistence says we have to take risks. Yes, we can take risks, but these are our common means that we have to take responsibility for. I feel a great responsibility for that. My wish is that the companies we had – onions, SAS and Norwegian – should be there even after we're out of covid-19, but we have to think about how it happens. None of us want our common resources not to go to what we want, to these companies, and then we have to act in a way that ensures it. I want to show you a little example. It is the restructuring of SAS, which could have been considerably better had the Danish government, or the Folketing, behaved differently. That is what this is all about. Therefore, we should follow up the decision of the Storting on a compensation scheme, but it is important for me to say that it should come at a later date. We're working too hard on it, and there will be a need for action, but it's so important that the resources we use here, meet the real goals, and that's why it's not that simple. In the moment that Stortinget had said, ‘We’re going to have a retroactive compensation scheme’, the leasing companies and the banks could come back and say, ‘Our money is secure’. They had no intention of being involved in renewing and securing a resilient company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e657	Thank you for a good debate. These are difficult, but also important, issues we are now discussing in the Grand Duchy. We have short-term challenges related to crisis management, which are managed continuously. There is now a proposal here to establish a separate emergency plan for 2021. We are not going to support that proposal, which we have not signaled either. It is for the simple reason that we believe that the continuous crisis management we have had since March, and as we still have, we deal with the way we have done as far as possible both by the government making its proposals, and by the fact that the Storting is clear about what we mean in these matters and by establishing a consensus – as agreed as possible – on the bet and the management of a difficult situation that the country is facing. I think that's a good way to do it. A plan of my own I can't see will give so much added value beyond that. The representative of Myrli believes that we do not meet any of the proposals. I'm actually going to disagree a little bit about that. First of all, there are two proposals which it seems to me that an overall committee can join. One concerns Stord and Ørland, which I am pleased that we can now get in place and secure a flight offer for. The second relates to an aviation strategy, or to an aviation forecast of its own, where it is natural to draw up the longer-term perspective. Many of the proposals that have been raised in these four representative proposals are proposals that are quite natural, I and we think, to consider in the context of such an aviation strategy, an aviation message. Then we disagree a little about the text of the proposal itself, but the whole committee and a total magnification I think will probably agree with the fact that we are going to draw up such a big message. Then perhaps the text of the very wording is not the most important thing. What was the point for us was that the NOU that was created and delivered here in the past, and which has many good input into a future Norwegian aviation strategy, has to be considered if not completely re-assessed, so in any case in part, simply because the pandemic has probably caused some lasting changes in Norwegian aviation. That's why I think it's wrong to just have a reference to that NOU. There are some other issues in the NOU that we can discuss, too, but I think we need to have a much more expanded and more open approach to an aviation strategy and a very big message given how we see developments behind the pandemic. That's the background for us to go to bed. Then I'm not going to pursue that discussion about compensation arrangements. I think the Council of State gave a very good account of the position that we also have in that respect. I just repeat that I think that the patience shown, which is also based on the treatment of further compensation schemes, has helped us now to imagine a restructured Norwegian at the other end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e672	Once again to the representative of Hoksrud and the speaker of the Progress Party, who says yes, they are now talking about the proposal for a minimum price to be examined. It has always been the case in the proposal: 'The government asks whether a minimum price can be set by the government. [[...]] Frankly, we're not sure if that's right. These are advantages, and these are disadvantages. We don't have the solution to all these questions, but we would have wanted the government to work on it, as one has done in Austria. It has to stop attaching opinions to people other than what one has expressed. I also noticed that the representative Hoksrud used the term ‘to feed horse from a bowl’. I don't know if the horses in Grenland have nice habits, but in my strokes we don't use to feed horses from the bowl. So to the matter. The proposal includes, inter alia: whether the minimum price of air tickets is one of several measures we have assessed and want to be further assessed in order to meet what we have seen as signs of illness in the industry over a long time, as others have also mentioned here today. It is clear that when you can take flights from Gardermoen or anywhere else in Norway to cities in Europe for 99 or 149 kroner, which is less than the cost of taking the flight to Gardermoen, there is something ripping wrong. It's a disease sign, a sign that something in the industry is not as it should be. This happens at the same time as we know that there is a great deal of pressure on employees' pay and working conditions. There is simply widespread use of social dumping in aviation. That's what we have to live for. We need a healthy and sustainable aviation. There must be safe air routes, there must be safe jobs for those who work there, and the authorities must help us to have up-to-date airlines that can manage in the future. That should be the political and the overall objective. We should facilitate this and have a long-term policy. For example, an air passenger charge should not be introduced overnight only in a budgetary procedure in the Stortinget. There are such things that are unfortunate for the industry. We should have a long-term policy for this, and we welcome the fact that it is now becoming an aviation strategy, a big message to the Stortinget. It's good that there'll be a majority for that. The rest of us vote subsidiaryly for it, but the government parties could not vote on that point either for the proposals promoted by the opposition parties. We are very pleased that there was a majority in favour of the proposal on route provision to Stord and Ørland. I did not mention that in the previous article, because it was not one of the original proposals that was promoted, it has been promoted in the course of the process in Stortinget, but it is good that the Workers' Party is now getting an impact on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e687	First to the representative Myrli: Hester can eat very strangely, they, whether it's bowls, fines or hands, for that matter – the possibilities are great. The representative Nävra was busy with ostriches. No, I don't like ostriches that stick their heads in the sand, but I think it's awfully good that they run fast, and then they actually need planes to fly them too, because they can't fly themselves. The debate we have now shows that aviation is important. FrPs are people who like that things go fast, that it's efficiency, and that you solve the challenges in people's everyday lives. I hear what the representative Myrli says, that he is insecure, and that he will assess, but he believes that it is a sign of illness if prices are too low. I'm not sure I fully agree with that. The representative Nävra has also been challenged for this with price. We're in favour of competition, and I don't want to go back to the situation that was before, when there was a monopoly on aviation in Norway, and it was very expensive to fly. The fact that we have received competition has contributed positively. It's probably like the Progress Party has a slightly different attitude towards people than some others here, who like to rule and decide and tell people what they can do, and what they can't do. We actually believe in Norwegians and Norwegians. Many of the issues raised by the opposition in these proposals, which deal with working conditions, etc., we believe that customers also choose to bring with them when deciding who to fly with, or not fly with. I understand that someone else doesn't have that trust, I think we should have it. I believe that the starting point is that we should facilitate good aviation, that we should have Norwegian jobs in aviation, and that we should have airlines that we have in Norway. There is no doubt that several of the parties on the left who now show great concern for aviation do not really have the same concern when you see what you want to do. The consequences of the government's policy of increasing the CO 2 tax also mean higher prices to fly in Norway and can create different framework conditions for foreign and Norwegian airlines. There are a lot of issues here, and that's why I'm very happy that you now agree that you want to see how aviation is going to be in the future. It's important. If I forgot to say it instead, I hope I said it: yes, Great is important, and so is Ørland. I think maybe I forgot, that I just thought it in my head, but I forgot to say it. I am definitely happy that an agreement has now been reached, it has been important to get in place. It was probably a small provocation when we dealt with the budget, that we had a common remark about Great with the government parties, but that it did not come into place. Now it's in place, and that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e708	Bengt Fasterøne has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e713	I could probably talk a lot about compensation schemes, risks, crises and decisions. The centre batch was dedicated to finding solutions already in the autumn. The government takes up the thread again in February, and they are now talking as if the matter had been resolved. It's not necessarily. In the request decision, there are a lot of people left hanging. So you might say that if the government is concerned that if you give money back in time to three airlines, you will lean back, then I'll just ask the question: what about the arrangement we have for the rest of the companies in Norway? That's exactly the arrangements you have, you get a compensation back in time. I don't think they're leaning back, I think they understand what a crisis is, and I think they're leaning forward in order for them to survive in the future. So that's my idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e720	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e737	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e744	We have a motion for a resolution on this, a motion for a resolution from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which is perhaps a good signature from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Their proposal states: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on the charge for the use of high-speed tyres and additional charges in order to prevent the introduction of high-speed tyres on national roads.’ The Council of State has, of course, given its assessment of this proposal for a representative, and the majority of the Committee refers to the response of the Council of State. The majority say quite clearly that they are opposed to this proposal. To skip to SV's view quite quickly: I have to say on my own and on SV's behalf that this is enough a proposal that is environmentally hostile and signed Progress Party. The Progress Party considers that there is an illogical system based on national road maintenance responsibilities and that ‘paying extra for this to someone other than those in charge of financial maintenance is and becomes illogical’. Well, particulate matter and pollution from cars are well there, whether there are county roads, municipal roads or highways, and those that are burdened by this, that is. local authorities may well imagine that when the polluter pays principle, this will also benefit municipalities. Then there's a point that the Progress Party here forgets, and it's that you like to have taxes like that to create a change in behavior, that's that you have to drive less with heavy tyres that pollute in the city. This is something the Progress Party sees far from it in this matter. Another point I note is that the Centre Party and the Advance Party are approaching each other a little here again – again in an environmental matter. We've seen some tendencies about that, and I'm very sorry that it happens. I understand the background of the Center Party, but I now record time and time again that these batches are approaching each other in a number of environmental issues, and especially pollution from transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e760	The working party is part of the majority of the committee that opposes the proposal that has been promoted here. For the Workers' Party, local democracy is important and decisions are taken as closely as possible to the citizens. We therefore believe that the municipalities are entitled to decide on a possible heavy-duty tyre fee based on the amount of harmful particulate matter. They must also have that possibility in the whole area, so it also applies to the national road network. We believe it is wrong whether the Stortinget should take this tool from the municipalities to take care of its citizens and breathe them in, whether it is a ban or a ban on transit, as the Progress Party and the Centre respectively propose in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e765	From 1 November, municipal fees are introduced each year for driving with high-lift tyres in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. The fee applies with some exceptions to all cars travelling on roads in or through the four cities. Even trips that start and end both outside the cities are subject to a charge. The fees are currently NOK 1 400 per season, NOK 450 per month and NOK 35 per day. It is illogical for the proposers to allow a municipality to charge transit charges on roads belonging to the country. It is therefore necessary to remove this from the current regulation and to remove the right of municipalities to charge for heavy goods vehicles. We have some understanding of the draft representative. It may seem unreasonable that those whose jobs are in places in the country where heavy tyres may make a difference in terms of road safety have to pay heavy-duty tyres in order to pass through these cities. On the other hand, particulate matter poses a serious health problem for very many people. It is a fact that the heavy-duty tyre charge has contributed to the fact that several people are driving smoothly, and that the urban air in this way has improved. In addition, it may be difficult to manage a distinction between those who are going to drive in the city and those who are going through it. The use of peak tyres also leads to asphalt wear, road-hazardous deep tracks in the asphalt and significantly reduced service life on the road surface. This also applies to driving on national roads. Charges for heavy duty tyres are in line with the polluter pays principle. In this case, it means paying for air pollution and for damage caused to the asphalt as a result of driving with heavy tyres. Payment of the charge for the use of heavy duty tyres currently gives income to municipalities, and this applies regardless of the road network on which the journey is made. The municipalities use the income, inter alia: to enhance winter operation, dust suppression and increased cleanness. These are some things that are useful for the drivers and make it easier to choose with a free spin. Unfortunately, electric cars and other emission-free cars continue to contribute to local problems with particulate matter and noise from tyres. It is therefore important to build up under a urban policy that helps to reduce the disadvantages. Rail-going public transport, bicycles and gangways are important to contribute to better urban air transport, but we must not forget that the bus is the largest means of transport in public transport, including in Oslo, and needs to be made more accessible. It has therefore long been an objective to put underground transit traffic and to develop an efficient network of good public transport and other local commercial traffic on the surface, as is now the case in Oslo, and is operating in Bærum. It will also help to reduce urban noise and dust pollution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e778	In Norway, large parts of the car park have free winter tyres. In the cities there is a clear majority who use free speech, while in the village there are many more who drive with spikes. It's natural in the light of our long country, with fjords and mountains and quite different topography. It goes without saying that in a country like Norway with long and cold winters, with changing weather and driving conditions, with snow, sleet, rain and ice and slippery roads, peak tyres are essential for road safety. On some major roads, especially in central roads, where it is frequently broken and salted, the roads are generally dry, bare and fine. In several of the big cities, roads and winter road maintenance are also so good that it is simply not necessary to use heavy tyres. Several municipalities have imposed a heavy-duty charge on their own municipal roads. What the municipalities do with their own roads is up to local democracy to decide, but the municipalities also have to force the drivers to pay a heavy-duty charge on the roads of the state, i.e. national highways and European roads strongly disagree with the Progress Party. The fact that local politicians can charge heavy-duty national roads is even worse, as there is clearly a majority in Stortinget to give local politicians this opportunity. It is highly unreasonable for drivers from other parts of Norway, drivers from rural areas, to be forced to pay an additional car-related charge only because they are driving through or passing a city. The arguments for the fee are wear and tear on the road and particulate matter. The drivers already pay too much in car-related charges, so it must be expected that the State will be able to take responsibility for the maintenance on its own roads. In the case of particulate matter, more than cars contribute to it, but the best way to treat particulate matter is in any case better cleanness and more often the cost of the streets. It is nice to see that the Center Party is now approaching the rhetoric of the Advance Party. I see that the center party is once again trying with a strange kind of double communication. It is clear that the Centre Party does not fully agree with itself, because part of the Party agrees with the Advance Party, that is. that they are against the spiked tyre fee and part of the Centre Party agrees with all the other dark red, dark green, pink, yellow or pink silk-osialists who love prohibitions, prohibitions, restrictions, taxes, taxes and the highest possible fines. I wonder how the proposal for the Central Party is to be defined and defined. What's a so-called city nucleus, and how big is a city nucleus? Several national highways pass through several cities, centres, and central roads. I'm going to think that, for example. in cities like Narvik and Steinkjer, it may be appropriate to pay heavy-duty tyres with the central party's policy, and perhaps also in Kristiansand, Trondheim, Oslo and many more cities. In this way, I am promoting the proposal to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e793	The representative Tor André Johnsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e798	For many in District Norway, tip decks are the absolute best solution for getting safe. Norwegian winter trout can be particularly demanding with longer periods of both snow and ice. In demanding driving conditions on side roads, highways and mountain crossings, peak tyres are absolutely preferable and perhaps the only way to get there. It would be extremely unwise for many to opt for free if it would lead to a greater risk to traffic safety, and it would be wrong if they had to pay an additional charge simply because they are driving through a city where the road is not part of the city centre. The centre party understands that cities with high traffic have an extra strain with suspended particulate matter, and the centre party therefore supports the objective of taking more traffic in cities with collective, bicycle and gangways. That is the broad political agreement. It must be pointed out, however, that not everyone can avail himself of collectives, bicycles and corridors. Among other things, this applies to many of the cars that run through the largest cities, and many of these cars are also dependent on tipping tyres. A good climate and environmental policy must take account of the different needs of people, and these members further indicate that the zero growth target of urban growth agreements exempts transit traffic. It shows in our opinion that transit traffic can be assessed in particular, and the centre party believes it is unreasonable that transit traffic, drivers who do not start or stop in the municipality in question and who are dependent on heavy-duty tyres, should pay an additional charge, which is a heavy-duty charge. The choice of these driving lists for the use of tipping tyres is an assessment they have to make on the basis of accessibility and road safety. We've defined traffic. When we're talking about a city nucleus, we're pretty sure you're kind enough to figure out what's defined as a city nucleus in a city. That problem we don't think is very big, but I think everyone knows what we're adding to what a city nucleus is, and our starting point is that there has to be an exception. Then I see something in the comments in the setting that I don't quite understand what the matter is about, where the Progress Party is talking about what kind of vision we have on zero-emission zones in Oslo. I don't think there should be any doubt about that. We are therefore opposed to the symbolic policy of zero-emission zones in Oslo. And with regard to the ban on new petrol and diesel cars, which have also somehow been dragged into this matter, I think we have been quite clear about what we think about it too – otherwise something that was a goal the Progress Party launched with its Minister Solvik-Olsen. Then I'll take up the proposal from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e813	The representative Bengt Fasterale then drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e818	I have great respect for the fact that there are some people who want to drive with high tires in winter. There may be different reasons for this, including: feeling even more secure in road safety. Even in cities there are some people who want to do it, and that's of course completely legitimate, but they have to pay something more. They have to pay a fee in order to be able to use high-lift tyres. It is according to the polluter-pays principle. That is a good principle, and it should apply throughout the country. We know that the level and payment of charges affects how the drivers behave and what choices they make. In Trondheim, we have had periods of time both with and without a heavy-duty tyre charge, and we know that the fluctuations in the number of users of heavy-duty tyres were large – down to 60 pst., up to 80 pst. – depending on whether it was a charge. Now it's on a high and good level. Most people have clearly accepted that they have to pay for this, because you know that there will be increased maintenance on the road. In Trondheim, magnesium chloride is used quite extensively to suppress particulate matter from the roads, and it is very effective. People see that there is an extra measure to get that system, and they know that the money required in the form of a heavy-duty charge is used for this purpose, i.e. increased maintenance. Then it's easier for each driver to accept this. I think what's the challenge today in terms of passing through is the way of payment, it's been very hard. You have previously had to stop and put money on a machine, but now you have got completely new arrangements. Those who have annual subscriptions pay for the whole year, that's okay. Those who are just going through it should get it even easier. There is now an app that makes it easier to get paid. For my part, I think it would have been even better if you could have taken it through the toll bar – that you could buy that service from the toll companies, and that they had demanded the payment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e829	It was a colorful post by the representative Johnsen had. Nevertheless, I am pleased that the plurality of the committee politely rejects his proposal today, for the use of heavy-duty tyres contributes to the production of harmful particulate matter. Pig-deck use leads to asphalt wear, road-hazardous deep tracks in the asphalt and significantly reduced service life on the road surface. This also applies to running on the national road network, such as: transit traffic on these roads. Charges for heavy duty tyres are also in line with the forureiner payer principle, by paying for air pollution and for damage caused to the asphalt as a result of running with heavy duty tyres. Municipalities use the income from the check fee, among other things. to enhance winter drift, dust damping and increased purity. This is a good thing for the carist, and in turn it helps to make it easier to choose a free choice. Exemptions from the payment of heavy duty tyres are currently limited to vehicles with high performance requirements, such as: expressive vehicles and breakers. Vehicles with passing decks have not opened up the corresponding needs. Today's regulation requires that the zone demarcations be practical for the driving lists. I think it's important that a designer and define a high-level charging zone in such a way that a driver's legal certainty can be both practical and enforceable and controlled. The zone boundaries shall be clearly marked and clearly signposted and it shall be possible to purchase daily cards before entering the sona. If the highway through the sons is not included in the sons, in principle all runs from this road will have to be separated by a charging zone. A driver that only runs through a son may randomly cross the screen on another person's behalf and terminate the regulation unattended. This is problematic, as I see it, both for the municipality that is to enforce, and for the legal certainty of the driver. I therefore believe that the municipalities still have to be able to include the national road network as part of the road charging zones in order for the scheme to work as intended, and continue to charge the transit traffic fee for the use of heavy-duty tyres – this in order to support the polluter pays principle, and not least to reduce the health risk of a high level of suspended particulate matter, not least in our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e847	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e852	A simple question that I was also a little bit concerned with in my post is that the core of the urban growth agreement concluded between the state and the major urban areas is the zero growth target and that traffic growth should be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Nevertheless, transit traffic is exempted from this objective. It is traffic that does not start or stop in the municipality in question. Is it not natural, then, that this traffic is also exempt from the peak tyre charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e857	That transit traffic is not part of the urban growth agreements, I thought it was natural in view of that objective. The idea behind urban growth agreements is that we should get the most on foot and bicycle, and transit traffic is not that easy for city politicians in that region to do anything about. That's why I think it's going to be a different principle approach to the matter of the charge for the tyres. Pays one for the pollution you're in on here. I would also like to think that if the option is that we had a separate system for our national roads, it wouldn't have been that practical either. Not least, sign and lead problems on all types of exits from all national roads and the possibility of getting in and out of high-defense charges would be problematic. I don't think the two issues are the same, so we choose different principles for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e864	No more lines have been requested. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e871	I think the representative, Mr André Johnsen, very well explained why this proposal is good. I also think it is important to bear in mind that it is good with a certain proportion – it does not have to be high, but it has to be a certain proportion – heavy-duty tyres, given the ice on the road and the road safety perspective. But I just have to say that the representative Fasterale said it was very easy to understand what was meant by the proposal. I don't think it's easy, because that question is: is E18, rv. 3, call 2 and call 3 defined as review, or aren't they? So there can be a lot of interpretation with the proposal from the Center Party. The representative Fasteraune said that the centre party was very clear and clear on what they thought about this with zero sales of petrol and diesel cars. So last October, the Senterpartie presented a proposal of 20 points to reinforce the climate effort, where zero sales of petrol and diesel cars were one of those points. It suddenly just got away from the website of the Center Party when this debate began to come. The progress party has been clear all the way: we don't want it. So there was this zero-emission zone in Oslo. That's where the Center Party says they're against, but they're voting for the city council. I guess that says it's not that easy to understand what they really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e882	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e899	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e906	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this matter. This is an important case for very many older drivers, who have for a long time tried to do something to extend the limit on when a health certificate has to be presented in connection with the renewal of the driving licence. I expect the various parties to explain their views on the matter. This is a matter for which the Advance Party has fought for many years. There have been gradual changes. The border was 70 years under the red-green. It was extended to 75 years. John Georg Dale expanded it to 80 years when he was Minister of Transport. So SV has now made a proposal to extend and remove the entire age limit. There's something the Progress Party thinks is very good, and we fully support it. It's of course shared vision, and as I said, I expect the other parties to explain their vision. For us, it's about equal treatment for all – regardless of age. That is why we are in favour of the proposal that Mr SV has put forward. The Progress Party has made similar proposals in the past. This is good. Now you get rid of it, and I believe that you still maintain road safety in a good way. It's a health care professional who can take from some driver's license if you're not fit to have it. This is happening today, and it is not only happening to older people — it is happening to younger people as well. But it is perceived by many as discrimination. That's why many people are going to be happy with the decision that the Storting is making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e919	I have to admit that in my time as a staggering representative, this is probably one of the things that I have received most of the enquiries about. The scheme that older drivers have to have a medical certificate to renew their driving licence is very much under discussion, and many people also regard it as very demeaning. I must say that I do not think this is a very simple matter. These are advantages, and these are disadvantages. Of course, I am not going to rule out the fact that today's rather complicated control regime opens up someone who should not drive a car, but justifies such – I would say – heavy and comprehensive testing regime that we are continuing the system for that reason? Is it true that all those over 80 years old are going through these extensive tests, when we know that all of them, most of them are cracks and good drivers? Statistics can be used and can be misused. Yes, there is a higher accident risk among the very oldest, but the very oldest drive in the number of kilometers little car, and therefore there are also few serious accidents among the very oldest. If we take a look at the accident statistics, there are many groups that are overrepresented on it. Young people, i.e. the youngest drivers, are overrepresented, and some immigrant groups, for example, are overrepresented. Overrepresented, but we could not agree to have our own test regimens for all young people or for immigrants from special countries for that reason. The driver and the individual skills and health of the human being must be assessed, not the group as such. Of course, the person who is not fit to drive a car should not have a driving licence, and that is the case today. It is regulated both in the driving licence regulation and in the Health Care Professional Act. In 2018, the Workers' Party and the Centre promoted a proposal to abandon the test regime. Unfortunately, it did not get a majority. Since 2018, the limit has changed from 75 to 80 years, so now it is those over 80 years of age who must have that type of test. So one more thing has happened, and that's that the Center Party has changed its mind. It's all right, it can explain to the Center itself, but now, with the SV and the Progress Party, it is therefore the majority of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party promoted in 2018. It is a pleasure, and then I will also take up the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e936	The representative Sverre Myrli has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e941	Driving a car gives a sense of freedom that means too many, especially in the districts, where collective services are not so good. Then it is good to be able to sit in the car and run. It is important for mobility and for the experience of being independent of others. In 2019, a regulatory change came from the Ministry of Transport, where the age limit for driving licence requirements was raised to 80 years. The background was a professional distribution made by the Directorate of Health and the Directorate of Roads, where the recommendation was that the age limit should increase from 75 to 80 years. In addition, the cognitive test should no longer be mandatory. The need for such a test should be assessed in each case. So it's been under two years since a professional assessment was made as to whether it was justified to remove the compulsory health certificate. The right is of that opinion that there was a sensible decision, and I think it is important to make this change, which was introduced in 2019, work longer, and then possibly make further changes. Losing the right to drive a car is too heavy a loss, and I know several older people who have actively tried to convince the doctor. I know a lot of sons and daughters who are desperately trying to get their parents to refrain from running because they see that there is no justification for road safety, the driver and the passengers. The safety of traffic must come first. Whether I want to or not, it's just that the older we get, the greater the chance of our senses being weakened. Physiological changes occur, for example: relate to vision, cognitive function, reaction capacity and flexibility. I would like to refer to the recording by Safer Traffic, which is strongly deterred from removing the requirement for a health certificate for the elderly. They write, among other things,\t\t You can Many older drivers stop driving because they choose this because they do not have a health certificate from their prescriber or because the licence has been withdrawn. These do not, of course, end up in accident statistics. Therefore, the requirement for a health certificate at 80 years of age is likely to have a significant impact on road safety in itself, i.e. the accident statistics of the elderly would look much worse without this scheme. There is a multiple in the Committee to lift the requirement for a health certificate for older drivers. On the right, it is regrettable that such a major change has failed in professional recommendations and that one has not considered the changes that were made in 2019. Right thinks that one should have a knowledge-based basis for decisions. Unfortunately, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e957	The centre lot understands that too many people are experiencing the need to have a health certificate in order to renew their driving licence after passing 80 years. No matter what kind of demands you make in a phase of life, many people will feel that it's intrusive. It is clear that when you are 80 years old and you may have driven a car in 60 of them, there is no doubt that it can feel that way. It is essential that the renewal of driving licences is a simple and unbureaucratic system, and it is important to find good practical solutions to ensure that the renewal of driving licences does not become a more complex issue than is necessary. Then I'm not talking about the number of people who are going to implement this, but how it's being implemented. Then I am at the heart of why the Central Party now has a slightly different view, because there has been a lot of happening in this area in recent years, much because of a targeted work by several older people who have pointed out that the scheme did not work well as it was practiced in the health care system. It was not just about the year of the health certificate, but about how these tests are carried out. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached the targets, and there are still many unanswered questions, especially whether the health care system alone should be the sovereigns, or whether implementation and approved test runs can be given weight. And the dialogue between the doctor and, if necessary, a specialist, and whether a driving test is to be carried out, this proposal does not say anything about today. This is, of course, familiar to the Council of State, I would assume, and I believe that this should be followed up on its own initiative. However, it is appropriate to highlight simplifications made in the driving licence regulation in recent years, such as the raising of the health certificate for the renewal of driving licences to 80 years, and that the contested cognitive test should no longer be mandatory. This was to make everyday life easier for older drivers in the country and to make it less bureaucratic and time-consuming for fixed doctors, without jeopardising road safety. Our proposals to consider increasing the age of a health certificate to 85 years, as well as making it clear in the Driver's Card Guide that cognitive tests should only be used if cognitive failure is suspected, are a natural continuation and reinforcement of the simplifications carried out in 2019. I am therefore addressing the proposals that the Central Party has made in this matter. Then we will stress that the cognitive tests that have been carried out for the health certificate measure very little the driving ability and driving skills. As regards many of these tests, this has led to uncertainty and has been perceived as degrading. That's exactly the part of the test that it's important to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e968	Then the representative Bengt Fasterale has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e973	SV is a health party and a batch that wants safe roads. That's probably why many people blocked their eyes a little, I think, when SV promoted this proposal, and wondered if this had been some kind of work accident or something like that, some left-handed work, which we had done on the move. I can reassure everyone that it is not. SV had never accepted such a proposal if we thought it was not professional coverage for it. A little about the background: SV's concern is that we have recorded that there has been a greater and greater centralisation here in the country. In the districts, it is now necessary to travel longer and longer in order to get to, for example. the nearby store in its close location, or to have dealings with others in its social circle in the nearest densely populated area. This has been implemented by the majority of society, and not least by the government. And then we also have a different background. It is that the cognitive tests carried out for those over 80 years of age, which should not be mandatory but should be carried out by the doctor in case of suspected cognitive failure, are widely regarded as degrading, and that it is not respectful at all to that age group, for the people concerned. We have to take this on board – we are treating a group of people in particular. Then we've gone through the reports. We have gone into the report after the report in Europe — Denmark, Sweden, Germany, the EU report. They're a little bit overrepresented in accidents, but it's usually measured in the number of kilometers travelled, and the older ones are running very little, as the representative Myrli highlighted. They tend to avoid dark and smooth roads, they like to drive on well-known roads, and that behavior makes us actually get results as in the Swedish report from 2018, from the Swedish Transport Agency, which is incredibly important. They went through 13,700 accidents involving older drivers — 13,700 accidents — and they had a control group of 26,500 people. What did they say? They went through several groups of drivers with different types of diagnosis, and the report clearly concludes that the results do not speak for mandatory health control for older drivers, because they found that there was no greater likelihood of getting involved in accidents if you had a dementia diagnosis than it was without. They're strong numbers. I will come back to some other arguments in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e984	It is with some surprise that I see that my Committee, the Health and Care Committee, has not received this opinion, as it was submitted to it in 2018. It could give the matter a more thorough lighting from a health perspective. Now, it is no new thing that today’s opposition oversees clear health advice, but in this case – as in other cases – the Stortinget has taken on a role that I want to warn against. It is enough to make reference to the unsuccessful decision to repeal the national provisions on constituencies three weeks ago. It must be allowed to recall that when Nordre Follo decided to comply with the health regulations, in effect introduced by the opposition, it took 12 hours before the municipality experienced the outbreak of the mutated virus. I note that opposition representatives have problems with holding back their voice when they are reminded of the majority decision in Stortinget, against health advice clearly expressed by the Minister of Health. I am sorely afraid that going across health-care advice in the present proposal may suffer the same fate. The Health Directorate was clear in its joint professional recommendation with the Road Directorate from 2019 that the age limit for health declarations could be raised from 75 to 80 years. This happened in June 2019. Both the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have closely followed the consequences of this age change, but have not yet concluded. So it's about the difficult concept of freedom – a sweet theme for a liberal party like the Left, but there's reason to remember that a human being's freedom ends where another man's freedom begins. Traffic safety is such a freedom. Unlike the proposers, I rely on the health professional competence assessment when it is clear that it is too early to establish, 1.5 years after, the consequences of raising the age limit for compulsory health certificates from 75 to 80 years. Then there are two aspects of the present proposal that we cannot ignore in this matter: consideration of the work of the decision-makers and consideration of the relatives. I have it from several experts that some of their most difficult work is to help older people to obtain their driving licence for the necessary reasons. By keeping mandatory tests, we make their work easier. The relatives' concern is that children and grandchildren often detect cognitive and motor failure for a long time before a fixed person does. Therefore, cooperation between relatives and family members is particularly important. We have many examples of regulars who have been warned by the relatives, partly by the prayer that the doctor must intervene automatically. A mandatory health certificate could contribute to the inclusion of driver competence issues on the agenda of the patient-medical meeting before fatal accidents occur. In this way, if not avoided, the family settlement can also be exacerbated and difficult, so at least a little easier to carry for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e999	I do not have as long a seagoing service as the State Council, but there is no point in giving me such clear leadership, from my tradesmen in the Ministry of Transport and from the health authorities, as this case is, with strong warnings against the decision the Stortinget is now supposed to take. There will be consequences for road safety, say professionals on both health and road safety. We have a zero vision for traffic safety, for which we're going to mark the 20th anniversary of the next week. This is perhaps the strongest shot for the bow for that work over the course of the 20 years. The driving of a car is complex. It could be demanding. And we know that dementia challenges are increasing with age. We also know that for the 80–85 age group, dementia challenges are twice as high as for the 75–79 age group, and triple as for the 85–89 age group. What is clear is that disease and health are significantly more widespread as a contributing cause of fatal accidents among older people than in other age groups. With the decision Stortinget makes here, Stortinget places a very great responsibility on close relatives in the work they have to do when a mandatory health certificate falls away. It will be shown to the Swedish report. I would like to say that he has compared drivers with dementia diagnosis in hospitals as a control group. Most people who are diagnosed with dementia in hospitals are already so marked by dementia that they run less, and it is therefore not strange that a person did not find a difference in accident risk in this report. There are, therefore, significant weaknesses in the Swedish report. Let me refer to an example. Hans Petter is 75 years old and has just renewed his driver's card. With today's rules, he has to renew his driver's card with a valid health certificate when he becomes 80 years old. He has to go to the doctor, get a health certificate and show him to the traffic station. He has to do that every three years after his 80th birthday. This ensures safety for Hans Petter himself, the road users and the traffic authorities that health has been assessed, and health requirements have been met. With the proposed changes, Hans Petter will still have the right to drive until he is 90 years old, but without the authorities having any certainty, as one has today, that the state of health has been assessed until he is 90 years old. At the same time, when we know that changes in health status increase the elderly host, and the incidence of dementia increases significantly from 80 years, this is very worrying.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1020	The Minister for Transport said something like that if the proposal is adopted it will have consequences for road safety. That's a pretty blatant conclusion. I said in my post that the matter was not clear. There are advantages and disadvantages of different systems, and there are reports that go both one way and the other. But if the Minister of Transport is so categorical, I assume he has figures on it, when the limit for when health certificates are required was first increased from 70 to 75 years, and then from 75 to 80 years. At least the first increase is now beginning to be quite many years ago. That's where I'm going to think someone's got good numbers. Does this mean that there have been many more road accidents among older drivers, that is, those between 70 and 80 years old, which we are now talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1025	What we know is that TØI has done research, and what they say, is that in fatal accidents involving the elderly, health and disease are a far greater factor than in other age groups. So there's made changes here. But when we go as far as possible to remove the claim, there's a limit set at 80 years. We know that the dementia challenge is much bigger after one has passed 80 years. In the 80–85 age group, dementia is twice as high as in the five-year-old age group. I noticed that the representative Myrli said in his post that the tests should be for everyone. The tests used in Sweden and Denmark for cognitive health status are not taken for anyone called for a health test. There's an assessment determining do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1032	Meg bekend has neither Sweden, Denmark nor Germany, on which we spent a lot of time in 2018 when we discussed this last time – unless the rules have changed in the meantime – the type of test regimen where a test older as a group. Denmark has previously had something similar to Norwegian, but has gone away from it. I assume that the Minister of Transport and the Department have been very committed to how this works in Sweden and Denmark, for example. Very well known are no more accidents among older drivers, either in Sweden or in Denmark. Does the Minister for Transport have any figures that indicate anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1037	What was my point is that the kind of tests we use, cognitive tests, are also used in Denmark and Sweden. Then it's true, as the representative Myrli says, they don't have mandatory tests. Neither do we. We have a health certificate, and then it's up to the doctor to decide if there is a need to carry out that type of test. I see that this type of test can be demanding, but as I showed with my example, a 75-year-old person can have a certificate up to 90 years old, without the health authorities having any control over it. The big deal here is to put a very big responsibility on the relatives, the closest ones, that they have to follow this up. We have no better basis to ensure road safety than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1042	I think everyone agrees that here are the things that can speak both for and against, but I'm recording that the Council of State says there are very clear feedbacks both from the trade unions and from the department. Then I dare remember that when we extended the speed limit from 100 km/h to 110 km/h, it was the same that was very concerned about the consequences of such an extension. The result is quite clear – it didn't happen, what you thought. There has been no significant increase in accidents because they did. A little bit of a challenge is the cognitive test, which very many people experience as being very unreasonable. As the Council of State said instead, it is not mandatory, but by very many people it is used this way. For those 80 years old, or over 80 years old today, a cognitive test such as this is a mandatory test is performed. There may also be some of the things that have made this problem strange, and very many older people feel that they are being discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1049	There is no doubt that professional assessments have not always been made correctly. I still think I have a duty to inform Stortinget to be clear that these are the professional advice, both from the health authorities and the traffic safety authorities, crystal clear. They recommend not to make this decision. I also notice that, among other things. in a proposal from the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, we have to look at other control procedures to keep it running. We didn't realize that, and that was my example. For example, we get some groups with which we have had good control procedures. I can understand that for some, these tests are demanding, but the most demanding is to be part of the traffic image when it is not suitable, and to be the cause of an accident either for yourself or for others. When it comes to dementia, we also know that the most demanding factor is when the dementia is in a start-up phase, when a person is not aware of it, when the environment is not aware of it, and that's why this health certificate has such a big effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1054	The Council of State was probably a little behind it at the end of the line change with the representative Hoksrud, but one of the proposals to be considered in this case – it does not get a majority in itself – is supported by a majority comment. It says: ‘The government asks that there be good control mechanisms, so that those who are not fit to drive a car are deprived of their driving licence and that this is done independently of age.’ I would like to make it clear that the Central Party is neither involved in the proposal nor in that majority comment, but it is now standing there. Does the Council have any idea of what such a control mechanism might look like, which is simpler and less discriminatory than current health certificates, which are related to age?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1066	I thought it was a good question, and I have noticed that representatives from both the Center Party, SV, the Labour Party and the Advance Party have pointed out that this is a demanding matter. I also believe that we are going against the change, that it is a demanding matter for the individual elderly. It will be our job just to follow up the decision that has been made, and to make sure to find out if there are other, good control mechanisms we can look at. That's why I think it's so demanding to make such a decision, as it is now. We should then absolutely take time, both to see the effect of the changes we have made, and, if necessary, to sort out other control mechanisms, before we go for such a serious decision. But I'm going to do what I can to follow up the plural comment that's there, to see what solutions we can have. It's the road safety I'm concerned about, and what's best for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1071	The centre party also does not want to remove the old-age health certificate. The centre party is concerned about – and I have personally been in dialogue with many people who feel that this is complicated and difficult – is how it is implemented in practice. That's where we haven't made it. There are many unanswered questions, in particular whether the health care system alone is to be the sovereign in the assessment of fitness to drive a car, or whether carrying out approved test runs is to be given more weight, through the Directorate of Road. These are things that the Council of State is familiar with in the past, I would assume, and there has been a discussion that has been going on for a long time. I feel that many older people are more concerned about it – about how it is done. They feel that they are being treated unfairly. Do we have any chance of doing this in a better way in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1076	I think I do. I also think we can learn. I am absolutely sure that there are individuals who have experienced that this can be untimely, but I also believe that health authorities are the best people to assess health, and this is a question of health. But it's also something very natural. This is something that happens to all of us, that we are weakened by age. When it comes to driving a car, you might be saddened that the kind of cars that are coming here, which are both self-propelled and have sensor cameras, maybe when the representative Fasterøne and I are at that age, this is not a problem for us, because we can get completely demented into the car and run. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1082	There were interesting views the council had of autonomy, I have to say. I noticed that the Council of State commented on the report from Sweden to which I referred, and it is very important. He pointed out some weaknesses by it, I think almost all reports have, but it was an enormous sample. That was at least one of the reports I and SV relied on, along with the others from Europe. That report concludes that the results do not support mandatory health checks for older drivers. I found that drivers with dementia diagnosis as a group were not more likely to get involved in accidents than drivers without diagnosis. This is a very strong conclusion. On the other hand, I pointed out that there were groups that might have been screening a little earlier: those who are drug users, are mentally ill, have epilepsy, have diabetes, etc. Does the council see that there might be other groups you also have to screen, and that is a danger in the traffic picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1091	For people with epilepsy, for example, there are very strict rules. One must have had one year without attack before one at all is evaluated. You can also drag in the driver's card after it. What I think is challenging with the report from Sweden is that a comparison of drivers with dementia diagnostics that are in hospitals, and that group of dementia is very sick and runs a very small car. Thus, the accident scene becomes irrelevant. What we want to discover with these health certificates is primarily people who are in a start-up phase of dementia. That's exactly what is the main task of the health certificate – to discover it. So the thinking behind our health certificate is very different from what the Swedish report actually reveals. We'll get back to that in the further word change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1100	The cord shift has therefore been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1105	Driving licences mean freedom and mobility for many older people, and for those who know that they should pay tribute to the driving licence, it is actually a great grief. But I am very pleased that someone has self-confidence and is able to assess that one's vision and other qualities are so impaired that they are at risk to both themselves and others. The driving licence, on the other hand, is so important for many older people that the individual often ignores the fact that one has actually been weakened. I have worked as an operative police officer for 12 years and have had to take the driving licence from many older people, including in the case of accidents. And I've experienced that older people have asked on their knees after an accident to keep their driver's license. While driving licences are important, there must be no doubt that road safety has to be high-seat. I have also, when I was a police officer, been called by relatives who have asked for help to get their older people to stop driving a car any longer. This is a subject that is delicate in many families. We believe that there are many important reasons why the health certificate requirement should be maintained. The risk of getting involved in a personal injury accident increases after 75 years of age and older drivers are particularly vulnerable to the most serious injuries. There is no doubt that the ability to react, cognitive abilities, vision, etc., which is of great importance when driving a car, is weakened by age. I could not have disagreed more with the proposal that exists here today to remove the requirement for a driving licence health certificate for the elderly. I just can't take responsibility for this, and I'm two hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1116	It's not so often SV and the Progress Party comes together, but we've done it a few times. It started with the very young, young kids who went to kindergarten. There we agreed to take a lift for the kindergartens and the kids. Now we've agreed several times to take a pensioner's lift, for minimum pensioners, and increase pensions. Once again, we find a common front to take care of the elderly and ensure that their quality of life can be maintained as much as possible. With regard to the health certificate for the elderly and the cognitive test, which is much of the discussion theme here, what Sverre Myrli said in a fine way earlier today, is rarely as many requests in cases as in this case. We in the Progress Party have at least received a lot of enquiries. Many of the feedback is that many of the elderly have simply received iron carpets. They have to take a test. They may not have gone to school since before the war, and then they have to take a test, in addition to time, and you're standing there with a clock. They get stressed, they get uncomfortable, they get iron carpets, and it just affects the test result. There is no physical test they are going through, they are not going out to test whether they can drive a car, they are going to take a theoretical test at the doctor’s office. For older people, quality of life is very important in terms of contact with friends, family and neighbours. That's not what you might think, and as someone in the room might be afraid, Oslo is now being filled with cars with pensioners and older drivers – it's soon not allowed to drive in Oslo, so they won't come here anyway. Most people may drive to the store, it's about a little drive in the village, to the family, the closest friends and relatives, from one farm to the neighboring farm, maybe. That's the level we're talking about, and then it's an advantage that older people can, of course, keep their mobility. At least that's what we in the Progress Party are very concerned about. In the case of accidents, I think Sweare Myrli again flashed at with good points. It is rare that I agree with both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on a matter. Swearing Myrli allowed himself to say what I almost didn't dare to say, because I feel that I can be interpreted as politically incorrect, but unfortunately immigrants are also overrepresented in the statistics. Young people are overrepresented and there are some restrictions, such as double fines and dots, but for immigrants there is no special testing based on immigrants. Only the elderly are exposed to such discrimination. Nor is there anything to suggest that there would be a massive increase in accidents now, even though older people will continue to drive a car. We feel that in the Progress Party probably is a little more theoretical fear than fear based on reality. There's a lot more I could say here, but I get to follow the debate a little bit, so maybe I'll come back later. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1131	I just want to say that this is not a debate about whether older people will get to drive a car or not. It is also a debate on what requirements we are going to make to be suitable for driving a car. We know that as we age, we lose some of the senses. There is a greater risk that we do not meet the requirements that are set to hold a driving licence. That is why we have also had a health certificate requirement. We changed these rules in 2019. Then we raised the age limit for health certificate requirements from 75 to 80 years, and that is to a large extent part of a natural development, since we get older and have good health longer. At the same time, cognitive tests are no longer mandatory. They shall be used only when strictly necessary. I feel that much of this discussion is really about cognitive tests, which we have now reduced the use of, and which will only be useful when absolutely necessary. I believe that scrapping a whole system of health certificates because you're against cognitive tests seems funny. There are many arguments that are useful for this, and I feel that if the professional advice is not clear, they are at least quite clear that removing the health certificate is not recommended. It is then used as an argument that the health certificate system is bureaucratic – that it requires the time of local doctors. Yeah, that's enough. But then I'm a little excited about how the Workers' Party and SV put themselves on proposal No. 1 in the case: ‘The government asks that there be good control mechanisms, so that those who are not fit to drive a car are deprived of their driving licence and that this is done independently of age.’ How should such a proposal be followed up? Where is it possible to be bureaucratic when we have to have some alternative to ensure that everyone meets the requirements for driving licences? I think it's a little funny that when we remove the health certificate, you want to introduce some kind of system, which is completely indefinable, and which is not determined in any way. Something else that I also think is a little funny is that the district argument is being used. I live in District Norway myself. I am in favour of rural mobility, but road safety is not of any less importance in District Norway than it is in the city. Traffic safety is also important for us who live in the countryside. I expect those who drive a car in my neighborhood to actually be used to driving a car. That's why I think the district argument is bad. There are other ways to help older people get to and from the store or cultural event or other things they might want. Similarly, I do not think that requiring a health certificate is discriminatory. We know that as we age, we get weakened health. Ergo is a good argument for requiring a health certificate for them over 80 years, and we should let that system work a little longer before any changes are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1149	I have to ask questions about what is the basis for countries like Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany not having requirements for a health certificate for the elderly, as we have. Why is that? Do they have a very bad bureaucracy or a bad oversight? Is the health system worse? Is road safety control worse? Why is that? I do not think the Council of State responded well to the question also raised by the representative Sverre Myrli, whether the Council of State had data from these countries that meant that it had increased the accident rate or become more uncertain on the roads in the countries that have had this system for many years — i.e. not a health certificate for the elderly. I think we should get an answer to that. Perhaps the Council of State should have brought it in the pocket of this debate. The Danish people built on, was a comprehensive study from 2015. They went through a lot of literature and data from organisations in Europe to see if there was any effect of age-based testing, and they didn't find it. It was therefore they removed the requirement for an age-based health certificate by renewal from 1 July 2017. They ended up with it after a long and thorough study. So this has been done in several countries. We are not so different from Swedes and Danes. It is said that we have to wait for the results of what was done in 2019 here in the country, when we raised the age limit from 75 to 80 years, but we have experience from other countries to borrow. A large EU report, including from 2016, concluded almost immediately. There was an expert group that the Danes had put down, and there was another report. I also referred to the Swedish. What is the big question here is whether the elderly should be treated specifically, as a separate group. It's a stigmatisation of a group that we've tended to stigmatize in recent years. I don't think it's getting better. There is a tendency that older people are getting less and less respect in this society. It's sad to see. It turns out that it's just as if the elderly's voice counts less than the younger voices in this society. We have a culture that greatly respects the idea of youth. And so does SV, we're a youth party. But we should not forget the voices of the elderly. We have done so by several decisions in Stortinget. I'm thinking about digitization, where the elderly don't hang out. There might be 300,000 not on digital platforms. We have mail delivery, the reform of the police, etc. All of this testifies to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1168	The representatives of the Socialist Left Party wrote in the proposal that health certificates have high social costs and put pressure on medical capacity. However, it is an important prevention work that is done by the permanent staff in meeting with the elderly who are required to have a health certificate. The question now is who will take over the responsibility and safety valve of the health certificate requirement for those over 80 years. Is it a relative who has to take a greater responsibility for following, or is it expected that a doctor will consider driving licences when a person comes to a doctor for reasons other than obtaining a health certificate? So the question is, who is responsible for catching up the elderly with failing health in view of driving? As of 2019, there was strong professional resistance from the State Road Administration, the police, the county office, the Medical Association, traffic organisations, etc., which came from the winding-up of an old-age health certificate. Age itself is not the determining factor for health status, but the risk increases with age. A relatively recent report from the Transport Economic Institute, ‘Risk in road traffic 2017/18’, shows that the risk of accident involvement and injury is significantly increased at 75 years of age. This risk is about as high as in young drivers aged 18 to 24. The report describes this in the following way: ‘Perhaps the most appropriate measure of ‘hazardous’ driving is the risk of being involved in an accident regardless of whether you or someone else is injured. [[...]] A thematic analysis of road traffic accidents involving older road users from the State Road Administration in 2013 shows that older drivers are often guilty of being involved in accidents. Older drivers are overrepresented in cross-accident and field-change accidents. Accidents with older people have relatively often caused breakage or stoppage. Among the elderly, women are at higher risk of being involved in an accident than men, and this gender difference appears to be particularly true for cross-border accidents. We have committed ourselves to a zero vision: zero killed and zero badly injured. This change does not contribute to the strengthening of preventive road safety work. I just thought it was a sad day in terms of traffic safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1184	When the Left went into this matter, we thought that this was as much a health policy case as a transport policy case. That's why we chose to have a health politician as the main speaker in this case. But it's clear that it's both. I think everyone in this room who is involved in this debate has a separate story about experiences about whether older people should drive cars or not. There's a lot of talk about taking a test. For me, it was that experience that revealed my mother's Alzheimer's. It's not just to the damage, to say it like that, it's actually a lurking test. It wasn't easy – we family suspected that she had become very demented, the doctor didn't say that in that phase, but this test revealed it. Then she got help, she was medicated, and we relatives got help to have a completely different approach to an Alzheimer's patient than to a normal elderly woman. We have to include these health policy issues in this debate. I think we have shown several times here that it is important to listen to the professional competence in this field. Yesterday, the representative Arne Nävra participated in many debates in several radio broadcasts. I don't know if I got any more convinced after the debates that it's a right decision we're making today. No, I am more and more convinced, even now after this debate, that this will certainly be too early. We said two years ago, when we discussed this last time, that we have to wait three to five years, and then we can take an evaluation and see if this has actually had an impact on road safety. So now it's been a year and a half, and then we take this on our tight arm. It is not good that we adopt what we are doing today, on this basis. I really hoped that SV had drawn this, but that is not the hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1195	I thought I'd take the word because I'm close to belonging to the stigmatized group of the elderly. I've rounded 70, and I now understand that people were much older when they rounded 70, before in the time. Some of the problem is that we who are older are less concerned with our age as we get older. We think we're young people until someone tells us that we're not anymore, or we experience things in traffic that we realize that we shouldn't be gone. I am so lucky that I get a health certificate every five years because I have the opportunity to drive a truck. My wife is very pleased, because when I come to the doctor to get a health certificate, I take all the tests I don't take otherwise. It's blood tests, and it's a check of the prostate and everything. The bitch is very busy that I'm going to do it, so I'm really healthy when I leave the doctor's office. There's no stigmatizing going to a doctor. When I get 80, I'm going to go to a doctor even more often, because they can discover the diseases I don't discover myself, and I might die of. It's not like going to a doctor is something negative. If I do not need a health certificate in connection with the certificate, I will not go to a doctor until I am almost dead. That's where we men are. We don't think there's any reason to go to the doctor if we don't feel very bad, and then maybe it's too late. When you do a grip like this and cut out a health certificate, who is going to tell me that now I am not allowed to drive anymore? Is it the woman sitting next to me and freaking out when I'm driving? I think she's going to say that. But is that right? There are some wives sitting next to their husband and being crazy and not afraid to say that the tiger next door is no tiger anymore. What's happening is that what's stopping us is this: "I sure drove over one in the pedestrian field today." "I didn't see the man walking along the dark road." "My vision isn't so good that I'm running along a dark road outside the congested road." "I didn't see that man." "I didn't see the man who went there." "I didn't see the one who went there." Is that what's going to determine when the certificate was taken? Or someone is going to say to me, 'You, Dad, now you're rotating so badly that now you have to stop driving.' That's the option, that's. That's what we're talking about. I think the elderly are involved in accidents where they are not involved themselves, but have contributed to it. They don't drive fast enough in traffic. They don't have the overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1207	It was interesting to hear the older spokesperson in the debate, but I am talking to more older people than I am, and very many older people are ‘girls’ on that scheme, to put it straight, and feel that this is not right, and that as a group they are stigmatised and suspicious. Let's at least agree that today's health certificate system is a very controversial one. I've been told stories about the elderly who on these tests have gotten maths from the doctor, and that in such a short time, they're going to do quite advanced calculations in their heads. I am sure that very many young drivers had not completed the calculations that the elderly get on these tests. It is also professionally discussed whether that type of test says anything about a person's ability to drive a car. It has been said in the past that the cognitive tests were to be completed, and that they were only to be used in special cases, but the feedback that at least I get is that the type of tests are used to a large extent by the decision-makers. So there's absolute reason to look at this. We get no answers from the government councils and government parties on how this works in Sweden and Denmark. I think it would be interesting if we could get that. As far as I know, one in Sweden has a system where one has a period of validity on the driving licence of 10 years – it needs to be renewed every 10 years – for all. Denmark has a period of validity of 15 years for all, and after 15 years the licence must be renewed. That might be a reason why the systems they have work very well. That's why we could see if we were going to do it like in Sweden and Denmark, that one has a different way of thinking about it now, where one special group of the population has to prove that one is fit to have a driving licence. One can turn it around and think that you have a driving licence until one is no longer fit to have a driving licence, and then one loses it. To the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen: Yes, of course the doctors will check whether one is suitable for driving a car. That's what doctors are supposed to do today. In fact, you may have received a health certificate a few months ago, and then it starts to fail. It is regulated by both the Driving Licence Regulation and the Health Care Professional Act. If a person is not fit to drive a car, he must not have a driving licence. Then the doctor will take away your driving licence, and that's what it has to be. So it has to be 20 years, 40 years, 60 years or 80 years. This is about finding systems for, without us needing a heavy and complicated system just for the older drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1220	The council said that in the future we can get in the car and drive even if we are demented. Well, I disagree, because at least we have to remember where we're going. That's exactly what I'm coming back to, then in political terms. Now the State Council has affected health statistics, but I think it is an advantage that it can be reinforced. A risk and accident statistics from the Transport Economic Institute from October 2020 show that older drivers, those over 75 years of age, have not only a greater chance of harming themselves but also others. These figures are quite unambiguous and should frighten those who today propose to water down the possibility of keeping a better health eye with this age group. So I would generally be a little careful to draw Swedish health strategies into this debate, especially in these days. Of course, care should be taken to use non-systemically processed single examples to shed light on a general problem. However, for the sake of the illustration, I would like to share two experiences I have a certain personal relationship with. One is a man, 83 years old, who was taken off the driver's license after a driver called the police, pursued the man and his car and had him stopped after he had almost driven on a woman with a babysitter. For many years the man's family had warned that he would keep his driver's license, and had refused to have his grandchildren in the car. The other is a relative who had to warn a judge about the personal responsibility he might have to bear if the doctor did not immediately remove the man's licence. A thorough conversation with the determining officer will not be able to reveal all forms of cognitive failure or incompetence in traffic. Many elderly people are getting close to their decision-makers, and the decision-makers often have a personal and close relationship with the patient, which makes an objective health relationship difficult, but the meeting with the decision-maker is a good step on the way. I can understand the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter. People do so much when they leave prison after a six-seven years, which was so spectacularly illustrated by the posts of the representative Johnsen. But that SV, who was so clear on supporting the position on Safety Traffic and the National Association for Public Health during the debate in 2018, does not do so today, I do not understand that. In order to come back to the starting point, SV needs to know where they want to go with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1237	As I said, there are about 60,000 people over 80 years of age with driving licences. Although there are several older drivers driving, statistics show that the number of killed or injured older drivers is falling. The statistics also show that this is a happy development that has been throughout Norway. From 2000 to 2020, the reduction in the number of deaths was 72 pst. overall and for the group over 75 years there was a reduction of 77 pst. It shows in principle how much attention has been paid to road safety. The statistics can also be read so that when the number was higher for them over 75, it was because you had a health certificate either at 75 or 80 years. So the statistics are used a little bit as you like. However, it is important to stress that doctors are subject to reporting obligations regardless of the age of the patient if, in consultation, the patient is suspected of not complying with the health requirements of the driving licence regulation. If it is true that, in some countries, they have chosen not to hold a health certificate, but at the same time have a life span of 10 or 15 years, it will in practice mean that they have control mechanisms that capture it and that may seem more fair to many. That's a little bit of the question I asked the Council of State in the change of lines: is that really what we want, when you talk about control mechanisms? Is that what's going to replace a health certificate at 80 years, or what we've proposed, that you can figure out up to 85 years? That is not really what the debate is about. That's not what people are talking about. When you say no one is going to drive a car when they shouldn't, and that this is going to be caught by a system, and then ask to find out a better system than today, we're going to have a completely different part of the debate. In any case, it is brutal for everyone when you are deprived of the licence because of health problems or other conditions. The conversations I've had with people who have felt this on the body are about exactly this: they think it's difficult. They find it hard to see for themselves, and they find it difficult to deal with them. Then it's important that we have a health care system that decides to meet its patients with respect and wisdom, when the nerves are in full excitement because the consequences are so great. I have no faith in any further control mechanisms. Then it is better to consider setting the limit to 85 years for a health certificate for an increasingly fresher elderly population, while at the same time the driving licence is a natural part of the call between doctor and patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1250	With regard to road safety work and zero vision work, I feel that the Minister for Transport has great credibility and great confidence. I feel it at least this way, and I have to say that from the point of view of the Progress Party, we experience it that way. But I'm a little surprised when you see the debate, just the last week, about road safety and the work on zero vision. I feel that it will be a bit selectively focused on road safety by the Minister. Then I must allow myself to mention two tragic fatal accidents on Rv. 3 just before Christmas, where there has been a discussion about poor winter maintenance. It was unfortunately snow, it was sleet, it was ice, it was smooth, and the car got towed. A single heath bench requires the minister to take action and ensure that one goes back to the maintenance work done before, with winter operation class B instead of C. Unfortunately, the Minister has rejected it. In view of the very rough rhetoric that comes from the Minister here, where it is almost claimed that this proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Progress Party will lead to more fatal accidents or perhaps more accidents in traffic, I am somewhat surprised that it is so strongly focused on this matter, while in other matters where unfortunately we have had tragic outcomes – and really is a simple matter, namely to have better maintenance in winter – there is no desire to clean up. We think that's sad. In the case of doctors, Sverre Myrli has also pointed it out several times. I had not thought I would boast of the Workers' Party and also a bit of SV twice in the same matter and the same debate, but I just have to say that I agree with what was said here from both the SV and the Workers' Party. The doctors still have a separate responsibility. They have a great responsibility to follow up their patients regardless of whether they have to take a mandatory test or not. And to what has been the starting point for us in the Progress Party: We were involved in the change that took place from 2019, increasing from 75 to 80 years, and that the cognitive test should only be used in case of so-called cognitive failure. Then we've seen that test has been used in general, unfortunately. Some doctors have obviously not found that the test should not be used in general, and others who would not take the test have had to take it. That is why we are very pleased that both the Workers' Party and SV are participating in a proposal from the Progress Party that everyone should have a new chance. Those who have lost their driving licence are likely to be given a new opportunity. Otherwise, we think it's a pity that the Center Party has fallen off the load, and that they're winging back and forth a little bit. We think that's a very bad thing. Unfortunately, this is not quite unusual a day. They mean one thing one day and another another day. But at least we are very happy that we have a majority with the Workers' Party and SV in any case so that older people will now not have to take such a discriminatory test, and that they can continue driving a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1261	I want to answer some of the questions that have come. It's all about the cognitive tests that are being used, and I can also understand being experienced as intervening. I would like to stress that these tests should only be used when the doctor suspects cognitive failure, rather than general screening based on age. I wrote that in the reply to the Stortinget, and the health authorities have also made this clear to lizards and state administrators after the age limit was raised in 2019. The doctor must therefore make a holistic assessment and, in case of doubt, a practical running assessment can be made at the State Road Administration. But we know that more than one in three over 80 years of age has a mild cognitive failure. where one is uncertain that a person experiences a risk as high as that. So to Sweden: Sweden has never had a mandatory health certificate, but they do cognitive tests like we do today. Denmark also uses that type of test. They had a compulsory health certificate until 2017, when they terminated him. It's too short to assess its effects. I also think we should be aware of that. Select The Storting to do this, it will take time for us to see the serious effects of it, but what we know is that Norway is at the crossroads of traffic safety today. There's no one around us. It's not for no reason, because we've chosen to keep a regime. We've had a zero vision, but with the kind of thinking that the multiples do today, we choose in many ways to break it. I thought Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen asked a very good question: Who is it that will take over responsibility? Is it up to them, or is it up to them to follow that responsibility? What we know is that the only points of contact with older drivers are police or control. That's what we have. Then there are some who point out that many older people are running in District Norway. Yes, but in the large numbers we experience in traffic safety now, there are more serious numbers in the Nordic countries than in Oslo. And to that it's discriminatory: the only thing that's certain is that this health certificate we all have to take if we're 80 years old. So there's no one who doesn't experience discrimination. This is something that applies to everyone. In the end, I want to pay tribute to the Center Party, which has just seen the holistic perspective that I think there is every reason to have. The fact that the Centre Party listens to the professional advice of both the traffic safety community and the health authorities encourages them to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1276	One would think that it was the way today's system worked very well, and with the proposal that has been made here, it gets a lot worse. It's an incredibly difficult area, but it's clear that today's system also has a lot of challenges. In the case of a compulsory health test, not everyone who should not have a driving licence is exempted from the driving licence. In my circle of acquaintance, we have her who got Alzheimer so quickly that she did not realize that the driving licence had expired. She drove for two years without a valid driving licence. It's completely possible. The relatives had to make contact with the warden. Another in the same circle of acquaintances was with the doctor and was given the driver's license renewed, with a health certificate and cognitive test, even if he was demented. The family also had to intervene here. The health certificate requirement does not catch all those who, due to failing health, should not have a driving licence. The pressure on the medical profession is high because of that. It must be more important to create a good system that does not discriminate against the elderly or that uses large resources when it does not work. We need good control and control mechanisms, so that those who are not fit to drive a car are deprived of their driving licence – regardless of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1285	The representative Arne Nävra has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1290	To the representative Grimstad, who is a little confused about SV’s position – who has changed, it is said: yes, well. In 2018, we promoted proposals to investigate this issue. Of course, it was downhearted, but the government investigated anyway. They came up with an investigation, and that is among other things. the investigation by the Health Directorate and the State Road Service on which we have leaned. There are many conclusions that go our way, but they ended up with a conclusion that said that they should raise the age limit to 80, from 75 years. So SV has gone a long way into this matter, and we've looked at many of those reports, and that's only professional arguments we lean on. Of course, it has not been easy for us either. We have had two-three rounds in the full group meeting, so this has not been taken lightly. We realize the arguments both ways, perhaps especially for those families that will always struggle with something that is close and that is a little stiff, and that take with them a little bit of the corner of the garage when he returns out. But it has not been said that the accident rate is increasing on Norwegian roads. That's what we're taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1314	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1323	On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for a good proposal. This is an important debate to include even spaces, I would say. As rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I believe that the members of the Committee can do their best for their own views. From here I want to do something good for SV's position. First, let's make it clear that people prefer to work. But then there's a good part that they don't, can't or can't work. Many of the people we talk about here could have had a job if it was more organized for the health challenges that are inside the image. Work is, after all, more health-promoting than much else. But we don't seem to be coming to the day when absolutely everyone has a job, simply because someone won't be able to work because health is too bad, or because health isn't bad. This case is about the basis on which the dissatisfaction of these peoples should be calculated. There are different advantages with different calculation bases. In this case, we have in the UK that we want to ask the government to make a statement and suggest that the basis of calculation should be calculated on the basis of the three best of the last ten years, as opposed to today, as it is the three best of the last five years. The basis of calculation itself is a rather passive tool if you see it isolated as an incentive to make people try to stand longer in work. However, it is a tool, and in this case we have also withdrawn some other tools that fit in. With that, I suggest that SV is behind the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1340	The representative Solfrid Lerbrück then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1345	Thank you to the rapporteur for a good job, also thank you to the Progress Party for raising an important issue. Everyone agrees that better provision should be made for people with health challenges and working disabilities to remain fully or partially connected with the labour market. One of the reasons for the default reform that came into force in 2015 was that it would be easier to combine work and social security for them as 100 pst. dissatisfaction was not the right thing to do. We remember previous times' legislation with strong threshold effects, where only a few dollars earned in addition to the 1G free amount led to a reduction in disability rates and a sharp reduction in future disability pensions. The new legislation should therefore contribute, through economic incentives for individuals to increase their participation in the labour market — economic incentives. So we see that this isn't going to happen. On the contrary, Nav’s analyses show that the new default legislation has had little impact on the proportion of the disadvantaged who work alongside – 5 pst. of them by 100 pst. incomplete and 75 pst. of those with classified social security, now as before. Incentives – economic ones – at the individual level do not seem to be the right medicine. Some people have a disorder that is difficult to combine with work, but not all with disability. 18 pst. persons of an occupational age have some form of disability. Very many of them express the desire to work, in whole or in part. Disability is initially no disease, but the employment rate among these persons is only 40.6 pst. This is not due to a lack of willingness, which is easily influenced by changes in the calculation basis for disability benefits. It's about something completely different. It's about attitudes and discrimination, it's about lack of organisation, it's about tough competition in the labour market, it's about a society that's not yet universally designed, to mention something. So the Labour Party does not agree that the Progress Party here prescribes the right medicine. Neither is the Joint Organisation of the disabled, which has made representations in the case. They seem to be more in line with the Labour Party: anti-discrimination measures, job creation, increased use of wage subsidies, job guarantee for young people with working skills, education, guidance and competence in Nav, etc. The proposals of the Progress Party have been evaluated and rejected. It doesn't hit them the Progress Party says they will now, people with weak social ties will not get out very well, but it will men with income around and above average. Work for everyone is job number one for the Workers' Party, but then it must be stronger than the Progress Party performs here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1356	Jobs can be fresh and research and experience shows that normal health problems do not have to prevent work. On the contrary, it has a number of positive effects on health if you can be at work. Today, too many people are out of work. These are people who can and will contribute. Our ability to create good and profitable jobs and get more people to work will be crucial for the welfare state we are going to have in the future. But outsiders are not primarily bad news for the bottom line of the state budget, it is also a burden for those involved. Work and quality of life are closely related. Work creates community, participation and inclusion. Many people who stand outside dream of contributing, only they get the chance, and we want that opportunity to get them. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize its dreams and ambitions. It must always pay to work, while at the same time taking care of those who cannot work. It must also be possible to work even if you cannot work full-time – which we will debate a little later when we talk about working time. One of the main objectives of the 2015 UN reform was to make it easier to combine work and social security. The current rules on disability benefit are designed to deal with situations in which persons have a gradual decline in income due to disease. The proposal to extend the number of years taken into account in the calculation basis for disability benefit would involve a greater conversion of the disability benefit scheme and would probably take a broader approach than the proposal is intended to take. The periods taken into account have also been carefully assessed in the past, between 2010 and 2012, where, among other things, the government. pointed out that, in many cases, individual income could vary from year to year and that random fluctuations in income should have a minor effect on a long-term benefit. The Ministry also assessed at the time that the average income in three calendar years would give a representative picture of the lost income, which we also support. It is important to point out that if the disease has a gradual decrease in its income capacity over several years, the Law already provides for the assumption of reduced income capacity to be taken into account before the disease, damage or loss of income occurred. In such cases, pre-employment income may be assessed on the basis of the time when the disease resulted in a reduction in income, and thus affect the calendar year for which the calculation basis for disability benefit is taken from. We believe that the current rules, and in particular this access, adequately respect the intention of the proposal, and for that reason we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1369	It has been a recurring topic and problem that we are experiencing an ever-increasing increase in the number of disabled people. It's worrying, and it's a theme I'm experiencing that there's a cross-political commitment to get something done about it. The UN reform was unanimously adopted and introduced in 2015, and the legislation is now better in this way than before the reform can combine disability and work. Nevertheless, the number of people who are unable to do so continues to increase evenly and steadily. I know that more will claim that some of the reasons lie in the amended AAP rules, but in my view and in the view of the Progress Party, it is a debate that goes a little side by side with the proposal we are dealing with here, and is not necessarily related. The Progress Party has made proposals to look at the possibility of changing the calculation basis, so that more people who experience health challenges can reduce their position when it occurs, instead of pushing themselves into full-time work until they meet the wall. Unfortunately, the majority have refused to ask the government to look at such a device, which surprises me. In addition to this proposal, the SV and the Progress Party in the case have put forward two joint proposals based on the intention of the representative proposal, namely to ask the government to look at measures that can help more people to work, rather than to end up completely unfinished. Neither do these proposals get a majority today, which also surprises me. If we are to succeed in turning the trend with an ever-increasing number of failures, we must be willing to turn each stone. In this way, the proposals we are promoting in the case could have helped to identify new measures and keep more people with health-related challenges at work. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1384	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1389	This is an important theme. It is very good that the Progress Party has now moved on to a new line and is very interested in work and social committee matters. The main problem of being able to work longer on health problems is that we have a much harder working life. There is tougher competition for jobs than before. Changing the calculation basis for disability benefits to the best five years of the last ten years has been assessed in the past. In connection with the case of new disability benefits and old-age pensions for disabled persons, Innst. 80 L for 2011-2012, on the basis of which different periods were to be taken into account for the calculation of disability benefits, this was carefully assessed and finally determined for average income in the three best of the five last years before the default date. Stepping away from it would be an advantage for men, for young people of old age, and for those who have income above average, as the representative Lise Christoffersen was well inside. At the same cost of disability insurance, the change proposed by the Progress Party would also mean that the disability coverage would be a couple of percent lower than it is today. There are people with a weak connection to the labour market who would get worse with this scheme, in our opinion. The input from the Disability Joint Organisation points to other tools that can be explored – more active awareness-raising measures and efforts on inclusive employment. Having said that, I would like to end by saying that today's legislation needs to be adjusted with more extensive possibilities for opt-outs in cases where it makes sense to reduce work effort in order not to get even weaker health. So, we keep today's system, but we see it as necessary to look at more extensive possibilities of exception in the cases that are right, so that the health situation does not become more difficult when you reduce your work effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1402	Developments with an increasing number of disability benefits are important to take seriously. There's a trend in the wrong direction, and it's important that we figure out why it is. As a society, we need to facilitate fewer falls outside the labour market. It is not at least a question of catching up with too many young people at an early age. There is also a great variation in the number of people living in each country. There's a trend we need to look closer to. It is easy to agree with the proposers that it is important to ensure that the most possible participation in the labour market. This applies to those with reduced working capacity and to those with reduced working capacity. The representative suggests that many searches have been unsuccessful before trying to reduce the position due to reduced health. The solution proposed in this case is a change in the calculation basis, which will not only result in fewer misappropriations. The basis of calculation was thoroughly assessed by conversion to new disability benefits, in force from 1 January 2015. The calculation shows that a long calculation period is in favour of those who are elderly and who have had an income around the average or more. People with a weaker employment relationship do not get along well with such a model of calculation as the one contained in the proposed representative. The Christian People's Party has agreed that the goal is to involve as many as possible in the labour market, including those with reduced health, but we do not agree that the means of achieving this goal is to change the basis of calculation. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1413	The proposals we are discussing today are about facilitating people with health challenges to have incentives to work. The taskbar is an important principle. High levels of participation in the labour market are profitable for society and can contribute to the health and quality of life of individuals. As a general rule, disability benefits are calculated on the basis of the income of the three best of the last five years, before the income was reduced by half. Several exceptions have been granted from this point of view. Such a special rule applies to persons who have a gradual decrease in income over several years due to sickness or injury. In these cases, the income for which the disability benefit is to be compensated may be derived from the years before the disease resulted in a reduction in income. Of course, I support the assessment made by Henrik Asheim when he was Minister for Labour and Social Affairs that today's rules adequately take account of the fact that people who have a gradual decline in income as a result of their illness can try a reduced position without losing it if they are later granted disability benefits. In several of the proposals, the government asked to investigate and propose extending the period for calculating disability benefits. When discussing the establishment of the rules on disability, it is important to bear in mind that there are more concerns and difficult balances we need to take. The period from which the calculation basis is to be derived was carefully investigated and treated before the introduction of new disability benefits from 1 January 2015. There was a broad political consensus on the Stortinget when the law was passed. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour stated in the bill that those who are particularly well off of a longer calculation period are not persons with weak labour market links, as several others have also pointed out, that the economic impact of setting the calculation period to eight years instead of five years was high, and that if it were to be done within a progeny-neutral framework, the compensation rate for all workers had to be set at a rate of 2 percentage points lower than 66 pst. One of the main aims of the disability reform was to make it easier to combine work and disability. Several grips were made to ensure this. At the same time, the proportion of the population is historically high. The figures show that the number of recipients has increased over several years, both in total and in young people. This is very worrying. As a result, the government has implemented several measures for a few more people at work. I would also like to mention that in January 2018 we set up an expert committee to investigate measures to increase employment. The report from Phase 2 where the parties have also participated is delivered within a short period of time. I think it is wise to await that report before we investigate whether major changes should be made to the regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1436	In the welfare community of the future, we depend on more jobs, if only a little, if that's what you can do. The Progress Party and SV propose to explore the possibility of having a lower degree of disability than 50 pst. The Council of State does not see that combining work and disability can be easier if you can get a disability of less than 50 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1443	As with all other questions, there will be both benefits and disadvantages. It may be that for some it will make it easier to combine work and disability. On the other hand, it can cause more people to enter the disability scheme. It may also make it more difficult to distinguish between causes of disability that give disability benefit and others. Disadvantage is not a scheme to compensate for any condition that makes you unable to work fully. It is primarily linked to disease, although other factors can also be taken into account. That distinction can be more difficult if you have a lower degree than 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1448	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1467	At the request of the Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each political group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 3 lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1472	The representative proposal we are discussing here today is about religious or ideological reservations against work and reduction or cessation of benefits. It is a key condition for entitlement to daily benefits that you are considered to be a real jobseeker. There is no general reason to reserve the right to take certain types of jobs for religious or ideological reasons. A concrete assessment shall be made of the appropriateness of work for the beneficiary. If a beneficiary fails to apply for, or declines to, a specific job in cases where the work is appropriate, a temporary cancellation of a daily allowance may be made. An overall committee shows in the setting for Stortingen's report. St. 30 for 2015–2016, From reception to work – an effective integration policy. In dealing with this big-mouth message, a unanimous increase was behind the request decision 927. The decision taken at that time is as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up clearer guidelines for Nav that ensure that the community does not pay living to persons who can but will not participate in work or activity for religious or ideological reasons.’ There is a broad consensus that the community should not pay living allowances to persons who can but will not participate in work or activity. A single committee underlines the importance of a level playing field in legislation. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal for a representative. The Labour Party supports the intention of the proposers, but we would stress that there is no information to suggest that the problem of reserving against work for religious or ideological reasons is a widespread problem. The response from the Council of State does not build up under the representatives of the Progress Party. The position of the working party is fixed: If you can work, you have to work. The Community shall not pay if it is reserved for religious or ideological reasons. The proposal of the Progress Party opens open doors. This issue has been addressed by Stortinget before. That time we ended up with a unanimous decision. We must expect the government to follow up the decision and maintain a level playing field. That is why the Labour Party does not support this proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1494	The representative proposal asks for clarification of the legislation to ensure that reservation against work for religious or ideological reasons is to stop or reduce performance. It is important to stress that there is a broad consensus that the community should not pay for living to persons who can but will not participate in work or activity for religious or ideological reasons. It is as the representative of Bjørnebeck-Waaagen pointed out, and as is also evident from the response of the Council of State, so today it is a main condition for entitlement to daily allowances that one is considered to be a genuine jobseeker. There is no general reason to reserve the right to take certain types of jobs for religious or ideological reasons today. If a beneficiary fails to apply for or refuses a specific job, a specific assessment shall be made as to whether the job in question is appropriate for the recipient, and whether he or she had a reasonable reason to say no. If the work was appropriate and there was no reasonable reason to reject it, a temporary lapse of daily allowances under the Law on People's Rights could be granted. From 1 January this year, this period has also been extended, from 12 to 18 weeks, so that those who for no reasonable reason refuse a job offer may lose their daily allowance for 18 weeks. The Government's response also underlines that there have been few cases in the Social Security Court relating to day-care recipients who do not want to take up work because of religious reservations, suggesting that there are hardly any problems related to the practice of these rules by the labour and welfare services, and that this is something that is already being followed up today. A general instruction has also been given in the letter of assignment to the 2020 Labour and Welfare Act to ensure that the requirement of activity and mobility is consistently and strictly practised. The Council of State also stresses in its letter that it will be followed up by the Ministry. I would like to stress that if it were such that there was a major problem with beneficiaries who do not take work because of religious reservations, or that there were no ways to follow this up in today's legislation in cases where it happens, we would have no problem supporting the proposal of the Progress Party. Therefore, when we do not vote in favour of this proposal, it is because we believe that today's practice has been respected by the proposers and that there is no need for further clarification of a legislation that already captures the proposal for a representative – not because we disagree with the fundamental reasons for the case as formulated by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1507	This is a matter in which the Advance Party stands the Mothers alone. All the other parties today are voting down our proposal that religious or ideological reservations against work should reduce or stop benefits. The other parties say that there should be a concrete assessment of what is appropriate work for the beneficiary, if a beneficiary fails to apply for or refuses a specific job. I'm sure most people agree with the Advancement Party that one should not be able to reserve oneself against work that does not satisfy one's religious beliefs. All the parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, argue that there have been few cases in the Social Security Court relating to day-care recipients who do not want to work because of religious reservations, and that there should therefore be no legislation. But dear friends, it's not the number of cases in the Social Security Court that determine Norwegian policy. The reason why there are few cases in the Social Security Court may be that there is little disagreement and conflict in this area. After all, there are no people who will complain to the Social Security Court that they will receive benefits when they themselves have turned down a job for religious reasons. A religious suite at the University of South East Norway presented in our country on 30 July several examples that people who receive benefits from Nav reserve themselves for work for religious reasons, that Nav does not handle this completely, and that there are great differences within Nav. For me and the Progress Party, it doesn't matter whether you're a Christian, a Muslim or an atheist. That is not what the debate is about. It is about whether or not to discriminate based on religious convictions, whether or not to reserve oneself from taking a job based on religious convictions in Norway in 2021. With that, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1520	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1525	As the rapporteur was concerned, this does not seem to be a widespread problem. That's not how the Center Party assesses it either. Having said that, I just want to stress that here we must be quite clear. We must be very clear on the part of the elected representatives, on the part of the government, and on the part of Nav, on the location of the cabinet. It must be a perfectly unambiguous practice for the community not to pay for living for persons who, but will not, participate in work or activity for religious or ideological reasons. That being said, at the same time, it is necessary to make a concrete assessment of what is appropriate work for the beneficiaries in these cases, i.e. for people who have such – what to say – restrictions on what they consider to be natural work. So one has to make a concrete assessment and take into account that we're different. But that line is clear, must be very pointed and clear. Working people shall not be able to refuse to do profitable work in their neighbourhood – I will stress it: in their neighbourhood – in order to be eligible for public benefits. Obviously, one here has to be careful to require one to travel far, so I stress very clearly that one should not be able to refuse to do profitable work in their community. The centre party supports the suspension, which implies that one should not adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1538	As others have said here, it is a main condition for receiving daily allowances that you are considered to be a real jobseeker. As a general rule, it is necessary to be able and willing to take any work paid according to tariffs or habits, anywhere in Norway and regardless of whether it is full-time or part-time. This means in clear terms that there is no general opportunity to reserve the right to take certain types of jobs, nor for religious reasons. It was said that here stood the Advance Party of Mothers alone. I have to say that I read the debate a little differently. What I hear is that all parties agree with the intention of proposing the Progress Party. But the Progress Party continues to insist that they stand alone as mothers. Let me try to explain what's the difference between the two approaches. What the majority say, and I also assume, is that there are generally no exceptional homes in the legislation – not based on desire, not based on ideology, not based on religion or belief. The type of general relief homes does not exist, and then it covers all possible conceivable and unimaginable situations. Then there's a suggestion that we should start specifying all the reasons that are covered by it. But it's not just religious and ideological – it can be a multitude of other reasons that are not covered by it, nor does it give a general right to reserve. That you don't like a particular type of work, that you don't feel like it – all those reasons aren't listed for a reason, that the law and the principle should be clear and clear. This means that if a beneficiary fails to apply for, or refuses to accept, a specific job, as others have pointed out, he or she may lose the day-to-day allowance if you consider it to be an appropriate job. It means in plain language that if you're a vegetarian, you can't say no to work at a place where meat is served, just because you're basically opposed to it. We can certainly do a number of other concrete examples, but all of this has to be covered by general authorizations. It is nevertheless worth noting, and it is nice that such a proposal comes up for discussion, that this can of course be challenging for the individual case handler in Nav, because that means that there must be an assessment – there may be some extreme exceptional cases where there is no proper work for the individual participant, but the answer to that is not to make very detailed rules or regulations on the part of Storting. The answer to that is that Nav needs to spend even more time discussing, discussing and finding a good and consistent practice for this, including what we have put in the letter of assignment to the agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1551	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1556	The government refers to, and it also says in the government's letter of reply, that there are few cases in the Social Security Court that will not take up work because of religious reservations – as if it were the Social Security Court that should guide. But if we take the right of asylum into account, how many cases must there be in the Social Security Court for the Council of State to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1561	The example of the Social Security Court is just to illustrate that this is probably not a very big issue, but that does not mean that it is not an important and current issue, and therefore Stortinget has discussed it before. I really don't think the disagreement here is about the principle. It's about – to exemplify in a slightly different way – that if you have a rule that says you shouldn't steal, as we know from, among other things. The good book, you don't have to pick up absolutely everything you don't have to steal, from hair dryers to money to your cousin's ass. Then it keeps having a general, general principle. Then, of course, the key in good administration is that you have the most equal treatment possible. It is difficult to control in detail which judgements should lie there, but what can be said is that it should be practised consistently and rigorously, and it is also important that there is no general right to reserve oneself for ideological or religious reasons when one is a beneficiary of the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1567	I thank you for your answer. I particularly liked the story of the good book, since I come from South Africa, it's relevant. However, I did not get an answer to the case regarding the right of asylum. Now let's say that this had been a widespread problem, and there had been a lot of cases in the Social Security Court. Would the Council of State have supported the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1572	First of all, I must say that it was not by chance that the good book example came to a representative from South Africa. But, hypothetically, if it turns out that this is growing up as a big problem, and then the message comes from the first line in Nav, which is sitting and dealing with this, that here we have a problem, we see that this is growing, we need a clarification of the code, of course we should go into it in a practical and pragmatic way and see if there's anything extra needed. But that's not the starting point here. Here, what we know so far, to the best of our knowledge, points out that we have a general code that says that there are no general reasons to reserve. You can't say I'm a vegetarian and I don't want to serve meat, or I'm a Muslim and I don't want to serve pigs, or I'm a Christian abstinent and I don't want to serve alcohol or work somewhere where alcohol is served. Then this is also an unnecessary clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1577	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1584	This is a strange debate to follow, because if the map and the terrain are not correct, you should change the map. It's also that even if someone says that the earth is flat, it's not flat. Everyone is saying that we agree with the intention, but if everyone agrees with the intention, it is strange that the proposal for the Progress Party is being voted down. You hear more people talk about that there are some exceptions, that there may be reasons why you shouldn't. The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen thought it was important to take into account that we are different and that there must be decent work. For the Progress Party, this matter is very simple. If you refuse to work for religious or ideological reasons, you are not entitled to the support of taxpayers. Many here say that there is a daily allowance to be paid, but for the Progress Party it will apply to all public benefits, both municipal and state. Then you claim it's a little bit of a problem. Yes, but regardless of whether there are very many or very few, it's easy to determine which practice we want it to be. The fact that taxpayers in Norway have to pay people for not working because they have turned down jobs for religious or ideological reasons does not belong. We know that even the Nav offices have different practices, so it's obviously not so obvious here. Yes, the Nav offices have different practices, and as my good colleague Meininger Saudland said so well: Religious suites Ragnhild Laird Iversen has shown that the problem exists. Then I think it's very special that the majority of people here today have a fear of contact instead of establishing the perfectly obvious principle, that if you don't have a job in Norway, you actually have to take the job you're being offered, so that you can be self-sustaining. It doesn't hold to blame for religious or ideological reasons to turn down a job and at the same time expect taxpayers to finance your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1612	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1619	I want to start by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on an ever-recurring, but important, theme. We often talk about women's right to work in the entire position, but it's also about what services we want, and the quality of these. Small jobs may have a negative impact on quality of service when they are large, and full-time full-time jobs ensure a higher level of competence in the performance of the job. It is gratifying that the part-time proportion of women employed has fallen since the first half of the 1980s, and that women over 30 years of age, especially with higher education, now work less part-time. Fixed, full positions provide a living and security in everyday life. The Committee agrees that we want a higher proportion of full time, but we do not agree on the description of reality and instruments. I would like to explain further to the Right. Most part-time work in Norway is voluntary. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that only about 10 pst. of those working part-time in 2019, it did so involuntarily. Not all workers can work full-time or want to work full-time, and part-time jobs can be an option to ensure that they get to work. Part-time work is also due to rights granted to workers, such as the right to a reduced position, the right to exemption from night work and collective agreements with greater restrictions on weekend work. Much is already done to promote more full time. Since 2005, it has been a right for part-time employees to increase their position rather than make new jobs, and in 2019 a change in the law has been introduced to clarify that a person may also have a right of pre-employment. In 2014, there was a requirement for employers to discuss the need for part-time jobs with the trustees and for the Labour Inspectorate to monitor compliance. In addition, part-time employees were entitled to work corresponding to the actual working time, and disagreement between the employer and the employee can now be brought in for rapid clarification in the dispute resolution topic. In 2015, it was opened up that the parties could reach 12,5 hours of long-term care by locally agreeing to work several Sundays and weekends in a row. This increases the number of tours, and it provides a better service throughout the whole range of jobs. Strengthening a full-time culture has been a prerequisite for improving the quality of healthcare, increasing patient safety and improving patient follow-up, both in hospitals and in municipal health and care services. Therefore, we should continue to stimulate businesses to take full, permanent jobs as much as possible. The social partners and the local partners have an important responsibility, and we are pleased that there is agreement among the parties to work attitude-based on this in order to find good solutions. Because this is about both culture and structure, and it requires that you be able to find the good solutions locally. If we're to have the good services that we all want, we're to demand all the permanent jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1638	I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important debate. Too many jobs are involuntarily part-time in Norway. Involuntary part-time affects individuals, but also society. Individuals in small positions tell of unforeseeableness and an eternal logistics with extra guards. Norway is totally dependent on having more jobs if we are to afford to finance the increased welfare needs of the coming years. This means that we need to create more jobs, we need to get more people to work, but we also need to get more people working part-time, to work full-time. Full-time is about the safety of individuals, but also about the quality of services. Whole permanent jobs contribute to safety and predictability not only for the employee but also for users. A short while ago, we were able to read about 47-year-old Martine Hägland, who works as a health worker in the municipality of Tønsberg. She's got a job percentage of 62.11. To speculate on the income, she has taken extra guards at a nursing home in the neighbouring municipality, but now she only takes guards in Tønsberg because she thinks it is poor protection to work several places. She misses income, and she's in an ethical dilemma. Seven out of ten health professionals work part-time, and every four employees work several places to earn a living. Several hospitals have had infections and deaths among residents during the pandemic, and more places have unfortunately been infected with employees. The pandemic shows us that it is vital to put in place entire, fixed positions. The Labour Party believes that legislative changes are necessary in order to strengthen the right to full-time. If we win the election this year, the Workers' Party will invite the parties to a large-scale full-time bet. We want to find the good, obligating solutions together, because we see that this is a real problem. There are differences between the parties when it comes to the fight against part-time. In the comments on the matter, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party write that they believe we have a good code that facilitates a full-time culture in Norwegian working life. Seven out of ten health professionals working part-time speak for themselves. The working party is far from satisfied. We have to do more, and we need and need a law change. With that, I would like to address the proposal of the Workers' Party is in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1655	The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1660	I think everyone here agrees that whole, permanent jobs should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. It gives a living and security in everyday life. And those who want to work more than they do, where they work involuntary part-time, should be able to get more work done. There are many fewer people working part-time now than before, and the increase in full-time employees has been significant. It's a clear social trend. But I do not buy the argument that all part-time is involuntary. If you're serious, you're saying 25 pst. by the Norwegian labour force is forced to work part-time, against its will. That would have been completely absurd. In my years of working life before I arrived at Stortinget, I worked full time and part time. Actually, it was in the public sector that I worked part-time. In the municipality it is local politicians who decide how many and how large positions you need, but who is in charge of the vast majority of the municipalities in this country? It is not the party of progress, or the parties of government, for that matter. The Progress Party has three rapporteurs in this country. The most, most of the municipalities are just governed by the red-green themselves. So it's not like everyone in this country works in a big company with hundreds of employees where it's easy to get full time. When I worked at the store before I got to Stortinget, and that's not more than four years ago, we were 2.7 years old at that store, and it's impossible – it's just not possible, no matter how you turn it around – to get 2.7 years' worth of work to go into 100 percent jobs. And at least it's not possible to get it up if you add strict limits on how to work – whether it's evening, whether it's weekend, etc. One of the best ways to reduce part-time time is to increase flexibility in working time and rotation, such as: The progress party wants to have. The Progress Party is also clear that we want to have voluntary full time. This is why we have been involved in several interventions that allow more people to work full time if they want to – with changes in the Working Environment Act, and by taking precedence over new employees. We've also started a reform, live our whole lives, where there's an opportunity to try out different tour schemes, etc. Finally, I would like to say that it is important that the municipalities, which is the largest employer, and how many jobs part-time, monitor and work so that where there are more people who want to work full-time, or work in a larger proportion of jobs, this is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1673	First, I would like to stress that for those who are employees, part-time work has been a natural adjustment for many, and that is going to be too many. That's something we need, and that's something the employees are interested in. What we are discussing here, however, is involuntary part-time. Involuntary part-time is different. It gives an unpredictable income of labour. It gives unforeseeable work, as it works, and it becomes insecure. There are many branches of involuntary part-time. It is in the clean-up, hotel, outdoor and health care sectors. Involuntary part-time work in cleaning, hotel and outdoor activities is something we like. must meet with a conscious commitment to a stronger professional organisation in the sectors concerned. There is a frighteningly low level of professional organisation in the hotel and travel sectors. In the large tourist areas of my home country, Buskerud, there is far too weak professional organisation. I travel around and appeal to those who are managers in the companies to stimulate trade-union organisation. It is also in their interest that there is more to care for. Involuntarily part-time in the health and care sector is the largest for the elected population. It is true that the Progress Party has only three rapporteurs. The center party has well over 100, and that's why we have a much greater responsibility. I can assure you that the People's Party in the Municipalities, in cooperation with the local government and the trustees in the trade unions, is working to realize a full-time culture, not least in health and care – i.e. less involuntary part-time. For other professionals who have a daily tour, this is not an involuntary part-time issue. Within the police, as far as I'm concerned, it's reasonable to take care of. So there's something special about the health and care sector, which has 24-hour operations, and which we really have to deal with. If we are to get more progress in this work – because it is right, as has been said, that this is a repetition – we need both clearer legal rules, political and administrative persuasive willingness to do so, and, not least, reliable cooperation and strong disintegration from trade union leaders and employees at all levels, so that tour work can be carried out with several full-time employees. It therefore requires a common sense of reality, thorough planning and necessary professional and financial resources for the service, including: a better ground crew. But I would appeal to the trade unions to be involved in this work. The union has done a good job. I also want the nurses' association to become stronger so that they can also contribute to a stronger full-time culture. It's not supposed to be on the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1688	The right to full-time has long been a cause of struggle for the Socialist Left. In some sectors, part-time time is more common than full-time, and there is a structural social problem. The sectors where this problem is greatest are hotels and restaurants, shops, growth, and the health and care sectors. These are largely women-dominated sectors, and thus there will also be a structural equality problem. To give a more specific picture of the problem, we can put the search light on a hospital and a prison. In this hospital it thrives on part-time additions, but in prison it is mostly only full-time. My father works in prison, and he says he can't ask to go down to 80 pst. the position, even if he is 67 years old, because no one else in prison does. It is difficult to see other reasons for these workplaces than for the one to be women-dominated and the other to be man-dominated. These are, of course, structures that are well structured over many years. The one place it's very common with whole time, the other place it's very common with part time, and this goes into the habits of people and also in the rental. This has seen its tracks in the clips. A slope change is known as a long-term project, but a space must be created. For many years now, efforts have been made at municipal level, in trade unions and in projects. This has shown some results, it's true, but it's too late. It is time for the law to become more current when it comes to dealing with the part-time problem. We have made this proposal to Mr Difor. I see in the setting that several of the parties are hiding behind the fact that there is only an involuntary part-time problem. That's very wrong. The part-time organisation of work is a problem. Then I would like to ask, how do these parties intend to define what is voluntary and voluntary part-time? If an added no to a higher job rate because the job in the hospital is too heavy, there's too much lifting, the sick leave is too high, and there's too few at work when more people are needed – yes, they run almost half a marathon every watch – is this involuntary or voluntary part-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1707	The proposers assume that more work part-time than full-time in Norway. That's not true. Here we need to distinguish between those who want to work part-time. This applies to a large number of students, pensioners, disabled people and even families with young children, who may choose that the one person is at home in a reduced position for a period of time. Something else is with those who want full-time employment, but who only get a reduced job. The proportion of involuntary part-time is approx. 10 pst. 10 pst. of all added, but of those part-time added, which in turn is 25 pst. by the workstock. It is therefore misleading when it is produced as a major problem in all industries. What is a real challenge, and we need to look at more closely, are the sectors where part-time settings are particularly useful, such as: The health and care sectors, which have been mentioned here several times. The solution is not to ban part-time settings in all sectors, but to increase the number of full-time job settings in industries such as the health and care sector. These are the settings that are part of a turn system, and it requires good planning when one is to set up a work plan for several hundred or thousands, while at the same time ensuring adequate manning with the necessary competence at all times. It can be done in the North Sea, but it is not implemented by our health institutions. It has to be. It is unlikely that it is important to facilitate full-time culture, which is also enshrined in the Granavolden platform, and which is the basis of Christian People's Party's government policy. Fixed settings are important to keep competent workers, to reduce sick leave and to strengthen pension initiation. A right of priority was introduced in 2019 for part-time opt-outs when full-time calls were made. There is also a right for part-timers to set up corresponding to the actual working time. In 2015, the government changed beyond the work environment law, so that it was possible to arrange long shifts on weekends. Twenty-three million was allowed. kr in the State budget for 2020 for the development of good models to improve the competence and continuity of care services. This is in line with Life's whole life reform, which we've heard about before today, and which makes it possible to test out rotational arrangements just to increase the number of full-time settings. The Competence Lift will also be involved and contribute to it. We hope that regional health professionals will also do their part to address these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1718	It is important that we facilitate a full-time culture in the workplace. The numbers show that we're on the right track. We're in no way on target, but the proportion of part-time employees has fallen in almost all age groups in the last 15 years. The government is concerned with reducing the use of part-time and establishing a full-time culture, among others. in the health care service. For this reason, Mr Bent Höie has called on regional health companies to continue their work on the development of a full-time culture. We have recently launched Competenseløft 2025, the goal of which includes: is to ensure that the municipal health and care services and county dental services are adequately and competently staffed. In order to achieve these objectives, the Minister of Health and Welfare has invited Norwegian Nursing Association, Trade Union, Delta and KS to participate in a new cooperation forum. The Forum will include: discuss issues related to full-time and part-time. The same parties also cooperate on a R & D project to identify call practices in the municipal health and care sector in 2020-2021 to see how to succeed in publishing more full-time jobs. In order to strengthen and clarify the rights of those who actually want and can work more, the government has adopted several changes to the Working Environment Act in recent years. In the case of part-time employees, the right to an enlarged position has been strengthened rather than new employment in the establishment, and part-time employees also have the right to extend their respective actual working hours. I believe that the framework we have in the Working Environment Act is good. Instead of new rules, I think it is important to continue working on the many good processes that have been put in place to strengthen the full-time culture of working life. We still have to be drivers to get businesses to make the most of their entire permanent jobs and to use the tools they have been given. The social partners and the local partners have an important responsibility. Finally, I would like to remind you that we must not forget that not everyone can or wants to work full time. For young people under education or for those who would otherwise have fallen out of work, part-time may be the option that allows them to be in work. That's why it's important, as many people have done here, to clarify that it's unwanted part-time we're going to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1739	There have been some different numbers here about what is unwanted part-time. However, it is important to focus on those areas where problems are greatest. In the municipalities we see that the entire 33 pst. state that they want to work more – they work involuntarily part-time. We should not camouflage the problem of figures showing a larger sector. It goes slowly, very slowly, even if it goes the right way. In Norway, we will lack 18 000 health professionals in 2035, and we will lack 28 000 nurses. So we know that we're going to lack labour. At the same time, we know that in some cases what awaits new graduates are small job breaks and unforeseeable. Is the government waiting for the full-time share to fix itself, and how is it to meet the need for labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1746	No, we're not waiting for it. As several others have mentioned in their articles here, the Working Environment Act has also been amended for several rounds. No later than 2019, a change in the law entered into force in order to strengthen the right to full-time work or to increase the position of part-time workers who want to work more. I agree with the representative that using the SSB labour force survey can be a bit misleading, which shows that about 10 pst. of those who worked part-time in 2019, involuntarily, because in some sectors, especially in the health and care sectors in the municipalities, there is much more. We know that. Then it is also important to say that the government's position is not that we are now done – rather on the contrary. We have to do a lot more. But then it is also important to stress that those who have power in the municipalities – including the municipalities where the Right has rapporteur, unfortunately not many more – have a very important job to do, together with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1753	I fully agree with the Council of State on this. At the same time, the government cannot borrow back and point to the municipalities and social partners. The state as a third party is important and has to be involved and unloaded. The government's mantra is to create more, but with all the jobs we had created more. In the health sector, we could have provided more care and security. In the past, the Ministry of Finance has replied that if everyone who works part-time today went to full-time jobs, the full-time coverage of the government budget would have been resolved. Now, of course, that's not likely, because there's a part that's working on a voluntary part-time basis, but it still gives the right picture. When we know this – how can the government afford to borrow back and not do more to reduce the share of involuntary part-time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1758	Without it being based on an exact calculation, I would say I agree with 99 pst. by the line of the representative. It's just the question and the claim that the government is leaning back, I don't agree. I have just said something in my post about all the measures, saying something about the legislative changes that have taken place in the Working Environment Act – that is, the legal path. I have said something about projects with the parties, where the local government sector is included. I fully agree that if we, for example, to meet the high manning needs we have in the care and care sector, it is essential to have more full-time jobs. There are also some specific challenges in the care sector, including: because you have sacred work, which in turn makes it more challenging for municipalities. But I believe that many municipalities have been hiding behind this for too long. There are many municipalities in Norway – by a different majority, including municipalities where the Workers' Party rules – which show that it is possible to have more full-time jobs, and that will be the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1763	I would like to ask the government council this question because Right is one of the parties that in the setting defines only involuntary part-time as a problem. I would then challenge the definition of involuntary part-time. If an additional person declines to a higher job percentage because she is unable to do it, that the job is too heavy – let's say it's at a hospital, where they add a half marathon to each watch – is this voluntary, or isn't it? Did the government itself have the power to run half a marathon every day at work in a 100 percent position, which very many ladies in the health and care sector feel that they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1770	Let me try to answer in a little bit. First, when you look at what is involuntary part-time at the individual level, the easiest way to ask employees in the enterprise, whether it is municipal or something else, is if they want to work more. Then you've figured out what is involuntary part-time and not. Point two: In this case, if you have the perspective from the employee, it is primarily involuntary part-time that is a problem. For society, voluntary part-time can also be a problem. I've said something about it being important that we have a society where someone can also work part-time, either for family reasons or because they may not have the full ability to work. But it is clear that if you work part-time, even if it is voluntary, you lose pension rights, for example, and you are less well-equipped in the future, not least if you are left alone. There's a choice more women than men take, and that also affects women harder. It is well described in the AKU study as the starting point for the definition of involuntary part-time. It's strictly defined. [[The President clubs.]] I don't have time to elaborate on it now since the president clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1779	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1784	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. I was also the case rapporteur for this case when we had it in the previous round. It's an important debate that's been going on for 20 years, as someone said here. During Arendalsuka last year I was at a debate on full time and part time that Fafo was in. The representative from Fafo said that now we've been talking for 20 years about how to get more women out of work, nothing has happened, and maybe we need to talk more about the quality of services. The SOR Foundation was involved in mental health protection in the 2000s, and then there was a change in the working time system and culture there that might be a follow-up. It is interesting to hear SV talk about the prison staff, because it was pressure from the prison staff that led to a change in the Working Environment Act in 2015 that made it easier to have both Sunday work and weekend work. There was also something that encountered obstacles, but now we see that it works very well. It also works well in municipalities and in hospitals where they take advantage of this opportunity. This voted to the left at the time, but we're of course willing to discuss how we can do this in a better way. I would like to refer to Moland and Bråthen from Fafo, who in 2019 looked at municipalities to see how one could solve this with full-time culture. Moland has been working on this for many years and is very concerned about this area. It was also he who thought we should talk more about the quality of the services. They looked at eight municipalities in relation to this project. All municipalities justified their project with a full-time culture, with the need for better operation, better access to and use of competent employees, better quality of service and working environment and increased ability to meet new service challenges. They did the following: ‘Services that use weekend and day-to-day cooperation tours and long-term shifts have fewer workers who are worn out and more involved in working and working time planning. This enhances job exposure, while at the same time making it easier to adapt working time to family and leisure activities.’ I want to end with what I said in my previous post: if we are to have good services in the future, we need more full and regular jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1819	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1826	I would like to begin by thanking the proposers on the matter and the Cooperation Committee. There is a cross-political consensus that society should address those who have additional costs related to children with a high level of care and care needs, and that there is a real problem in this case, SV, related to benefits in basic and auxiliary care as a result of long-term hospitalisation and the additional burden it creates for the family. It is an important objective to reduce the challenges faced by parents of children in need of complex services. As can be seen from the response of the Council of State, this is also a problem which has been known and which was announced that the government had initially intended to come back to in the context of the co-reform, where the care and inclusion of relatives is an important area of intervention. We must facilitate the creation of a secure framework for all families around their lives, and the support, guidance and relief of relatives, if necessary. Now, however, it also comes as a concrete order from Stortinget in this matter, which a unanimous committee is behind, and it lives perfectly well with it. Then there is no point in hiding that we have had some concerns along the way in this case as it is formulated in the proposal from SV. It does not have much to do with the principal aspects of the case, but rather deals more with the practical aspects of how this concrete order to the government is to be made, such as the additional costs to be covered by the basic benefit of hospital accommodation, compared to the individual assessment that is also being made today, or whether the aid rate should be fixed for the duration of hospitalisation irrespective of whether the care is increased or reduced, or whether it should be re-evaluated, and what should be the criteria for entitlement to the different rates. These concerns are clear from our comments on the matter, but at the same time we have chosen to stand behind the unanimous vote: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that children under the age of 18 are not drawn into basic or auxiliary benefits as a result of long-term hospitalisation.’ That's why it's a clear principle message The Stortinge give today, and then we expect that the problems associated with the frame-up will be skillfully addressed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1844	I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this matter. Through the organisation Løvemmammen we have become acquainted with families who have received unreasonable reimbursement claims from Nav after their child has been hospitalized for more than three months. For the Workers' Party, there is no doubt: the law must be amended. We cannot be aware that families and children will lose financial support because the child is hospitalized for more than three months. The State Council's letter of reply to the Committee states: ‘A hospitalisation would normally result in a change and/or reduction of parental supervision and care tasks towards the child.’ It's a description of reality that parents of sick children don't recognize. Those who are close to the families know that care needs are not reduced. The load is increasing for everyone. Camilla Rindahl from the Løvemma said so well: ‘It is difficult to explain how much is required of parents to be in such a situation over time. It's about giving everything all the time, all the day. Nurses and doctors go off guard – they don't do that to their parents. There is no shift change, only days and nights that slip into the next." A hospital stay is not a relief. That is an unreasonable reason why a child should lose the financial support that aid is. It is worth noting that in some of the cases, the reason for the extension of hospitalisation is that, as a community of welfare services, we have not been able to mobilise the necessary services to allow the child to return to his or her home or to the municipality. You get punished because public spending time. The government has had several opportunities to take a stand on the matter. In reply to written questions, the Council of State states that it will ‘not propose a change to the aid rules’. Nevertheless, a unanimous committee is going in today to ask the government to amend the law. That's good and absolutely necessary. I expect the government to follow up the decision immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1867	Then Stortinget takes a break in the debate to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1879	The vote will begin at the next voting time on the remaining items on agenda No. 46 from Thursday 4 February, which is Case No 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1893	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red In the event of an incurrence, the Progress Party in the vote was standing as proposers for proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox There is a vote on proposal No. 3 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a full political account of the voting rights agreements and other types of commitments or understandings incurred in connection with the campaign for Norway’s seat in the Security Council.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1919	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide information to the Government on the voting rights agreements and other types of intergovernmental commitments or understandings entered into in connection with the campaign for Norway’s seat in the Security Council.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1936	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘A temporary mechanism is established in accordance with the model of the European Committee on Proposing Matters of Importance for Norway, with a duration as long as Norway is a member of the United Nations Security Council. The scheme intends to ensure public debate, democratic anchoring and legitimacy of government policy in the Security Council.’.» The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1975	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party were warned that they would vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e1994	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for the ratification of the Rome Statute’s addition to the Convention on Aggression Crimes [[Kampala Plugin]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Grand Duchy with a proposal for a new provision in Chapter 16 of the Criminal Code that criminalises the war of aggression, in line with the Kampala Supplement to the Rome Statutes.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2018	The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2037	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Petter Eide on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish a police management tool that includes the use of measures for police work on violence in close relations.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2056	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure a funding model through the letter of entrustment to the Directorate of Police, ensuring the designation of funds for the investigation of reported family violence, rape in close relations and sexual abuse of children in close relations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up specialised teams in each police district, dealing exclusively with violence in close relations.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the capacity of organised interrogations with the establishment of several children’. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2092	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2104	Here I think there's something wrong. Is there anyone who has any confessions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2109	Yes, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2114	There should be a couple more. I think we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2126	Case No. 7 and 8 were interpellations. The size goes to voting on the matters 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2139	Case No. 1 is the second time that the law is dealt with and applies to the law 64. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2153	Case No. 2 is the second time that the law is being dealt with and applies to legislation 65. During the debate, Mr Ketil Kjenseth presented a proposal on behalf of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size was treated on 4 February 2021: Act amending the Energy Act, etc. The size decision is as follows: [[changes in functional separation for network undertakings]] The legislative act is not acceptable. Note: The title of the Act is assumed to be replaced by the following: the Act amending the Energy Act Romeertall I is expected to read as follows: [[changes in functional separation for network undertakings]] I In Law No 29 June 1990 No. 50 on the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and use of energy, etc. It shall be amended as follows: § 4-1, second paragraph, No. 10 shall be deleted; Paragraphs 4 to 7 are replaced by the Paragraphs 4 to 7. Persons in the management of network undertakings may not participate in the management of undertakings engaged in other activities within the integrated undertaking. [[Requirements for functional separation]] Parent or controlling owner of the integrated undertaking shall not give instructions to network undertakings on the day-to-day operation or on decisions relating to the development or upgrade of the network. This does not preclude overall governance under the financial framework of the network undertaking. The requirements set out in the first and second subparagraphs shall not apply to network undertakings with 10000 or fewer network customers. The Ministry may grant exemptions from all or part of the functional separation requirement. The Ministry may provide for functional separation. Roman No II is assumed to be replaced by the following: II The law shall enter into force immediately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2222	The remark to the Law Decision 65 was therefore accepted. The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be taken until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2235	Case No. 3 is the second time that law enforcement is handled and is governed by law 66. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2249	A total of 32 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13–16, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Øystein Langholm Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 19–25, from Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 26-32, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of the Red There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26-29 and 32, from Red. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to instruct Wizz Air to stop its domestic flights in Norway because they are in breach of ILO Convention No. 87 on freedom of association and protection of the right to organise.’.» Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to use Avinor’s ownership to refuse to use Avinor’s airports as long as Wizz Air does not allow employees to organise and enter into a tariff agreement.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government asks to exclude Wizz Air as a service owner for employees in the country.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to use the state ownership to work in order to exclude Wizz Air as a provider of service claims for employees of state-owned companies.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with Airport Operation AS with a view to purchasing them out of the Haugesund airport agreement Karmøy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2298	President! SV shall support all Red proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2303	All right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2315	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the inclusion of gross or systematic infringements of employee rights as a criterion for observation and exclusion from the State pension fund abroad and the right to conduct collective bargaining and reference to ILO Convention No. 87 on freedom of association and the protection of the right to organise as a basis for the State pension fund abroad ethical guidelines for investment.» The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2332	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Norwegian salary and working conditions requirement and the right to conclude a Norwegian collective agreement are complied with for Wizz Air’s employees on domestic flights in Norway.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2350	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 and 25, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking for solutions to protect the short-haul network and routes between North and South Norway against price increases on air tickets, and to return to Stortinget with a case at the latest in the revised national budget 2021, assessing inter alia: to instruct Avinor to remove the take-off charge at aerodromes of 30 pst. discount today and cover the loss of revenue through the corresponding increased charges at the other aerodromes. to remove the passenger charge for flights of less than 20 tonnes aeroplane type and to cover the surface of the sample by increasing the charge on other flights.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to secure Norwegian jobs, competences and critical infrastructure in Norwegian aviation through state ownership. The ownership shall be targeted to ensure Norwegian jobs and seriousness in Norwegian aviation as well as to reduce climate change emissions and build a green aviation industry. The ownership shall aim, in addition to ensuring air traffic in those parts of the country where no environmentally friendly alternatives exist.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2378	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–24, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility of introducing a ‘frequency flyer levy’ or ‘air miles duty’ into Norwegian aviation. The investigation shall assess how such a charge can be differentiated between, respectively. international flights, domestic flights and flights on the short-haul network.’;» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to ensure the necessary investments to reduce emissions in Norwegian aviation in general by investing in zero-emission technologies. The plan must describe how this can contribute to giving Norway a leading industrial role in the development of zero-emission solutions for future aviation.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment by 2030 of all measures relating to the infrastructure at aerodromes, charges, incentives and other measures to ensure that the aeroplanes of the short-range network shall be emission-free.’;» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in all negotiations with airlines for financial support to impose conditions on greenhouse gas emissions and to follow the Norwegian labour market model.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on the establishment of competence transfer programmes and job security programmes, for example by model from previously established industry programmes, for Norwegian aviation employees and to actively include trade unions in this work.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2418	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a national aviation strategy in the form of a roll-out notification based on the recommendations of the Aviation Committee in NOU 2019:22 From the status symbol to allergensie – Norwegian aviation in transition.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to determine whether a minimum price can be set for air tickets according to the model of Austria, which is to cover at least the company’s costs of transporting a passenger, and to return to Stortinget by an appropriate means.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2442	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 15, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit a compensation scheme quickly for Norwegian air carriers.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with Norwegian with a view to finding solutions that can save the company’s Norwegian jobs and ensure the company’s services in and to/from Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2464	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that Avinor is compensated for the loss of revenue from air traffic resulting from travel restrictions associated with the outbreak of the virus.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2483	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2489	President! I also voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2494	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 8, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide measures to ensure a good air service throughout Norway and to help Norwegian carriers to continue their responsible operations. A compensation scheme for Norwegian carriers must contribute to ensuring Norwegian employment and operation with Norwegian pay and working conditions.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the Avinor model is continued for the operation and further development of airports throughout the country.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2530	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 4–7 and 9–12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that, in the context of new crisis measures aimed at Norwegian airlines, demands are made to strengthen the obligations of companies in the fight against social dumping and labour crime. This includes: - requirements for permanent jobs with direct employment and support for the professional organisation of workers, - a contract of employment with a clearly defined home base defining the responsibilities of the employer for all companies flying into Norway, - clear rejection of the use of flags of convenience, - a regulatory amendment to stop the possibility of replacing Norwegian and European employees on Norwegian registered aeroplanes in intercontinental traffic.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to develop measures to halt the development of social dumping and labour crime in the aviation sector, in order to prevent the development of pay and working conditions into a potential safety risk.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate an aviation characterised by sound and fair competition on a level playing field based on the Norwegian model, including: - permanent posts with direct employment and requirements for carriers flying in Norway to accept professional organisation, - clear home-base rules which clearly define the responsibilities of employers, - impede the use of flags of convenience, - reverse the amendment allowing Norwegian and European employees to be replaced on Norwegian registered aeroplanes in intercontinental traffic, - an objective to prohibit ‘pay to aeroplanes’ internationally.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the Air Safety Authority has the necessary resources and means to ensure a high level of safety in aviation. Air traffic control and Labour Inspectorate must supervise all companies operating in Norway and carry out several unannounced inspections in order to detect breaches of the legislation. Furthermore, the government is asked to ensure that the borderline between supervision is clarified.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that public purchasers of domestic helicopter services impose stricter aviation safety requirements.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare legislation to require Norwegian labour law with collective bargaining agreements to be taken into account when tendering for the FOT routes, even after transfer to county responsibility, and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through its management of Avinor to ensure that the competitive outsourcing of operational and emergency services is stopped.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government, through its business management by Avinor, is asked to clarify that business transfer is taken into account by changing sub-contractors in aviation ground services according to the same schedule as for other parts of the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a joint and rapid sample to review and propose measures for the development of alternative aviation fuel solutions to cut greenhouse gas emissions, including advanced biofuels, alternative energy sources and the electrification of aviation in Norway.’; Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to examine all the possibilities for action spaces in the EEA Agreement to stop airlines operating in Norway where their activities result in a breach of Norwegian labour law or have significant regional or environmental consequences contrary to Norwegian policy objectives.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2617	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a contingency plan for Norwegian aviation to last 2021.’ The Progress Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2644	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2663	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2668	We now want to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2687	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2716	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2735	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tor André Johnsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on the charge for the use of heavy-duty tyres and additional charges in order to prevent the introduction of a heavy-duty transit fee outside the city centre in a municipality with a heavy-duty charge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2766	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the regulation on the charge for the use of high-speed tyres and additional charges in order to prevent the introduction of high-speed tyres on national roads.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2791	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party, There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to clarify in the Driver’s Card Guide that the cognitive tests shall only be used in case of a suspected cognitive failure.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2817	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the functioning of the current compulsory health test system for the renewal of driving licences and to determine whether it is appropriate to raise the age limit for compulsory health testing to 85 years’.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2834	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that there be good control mechanisms, so that those who are not fit to drive a car are deprived of their driving licence and that this is done independently of age.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2861	The right, the centre party, the left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2880	The Right Party, the Center Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2899	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solfrid Lerbreck, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 4 and 5, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to decide and to propose an extension of the calculation basis for disability benefits, on the basis of average income over the three best of the last 10 years.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate the non-execution of the same non-executive amount limit as those with a VTA space.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2935	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size calls on the government to investigate and propose an extension of the calculation basis for disability benefits, which, for example, is based on average income over the five best of the last ten years, in order to provide incentives to try to reduce the position before assessing the clearance of disability benefits.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal. Socialist Left Party and Red Party have announced subsidiary aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e2959	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to provide better insight into trying to reduce the position before assessing clearance against disability.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an opportunity to have a lower degree than 50 pst. disability insurance.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3027	The size goes back to the debate on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The first speaker is Gisle Meininger Saudland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3034	This is an important matter, not just for those involved, but because it touches something bigger in us. The Norwegian welfare community is built around the fact that those who need extra help get it if they need it. Then there are legitimate political discussions about how comprehensive the welfare society should be, and that's fine, but for me this is about something completely different. It's about what we know is right, and how we want it to be in Norway in 2021. Taking care of the weakest, sickest children is not about the right or left side of Norwegian policy. It's about adding what for the state is relatively small amounts, on the table and saying that we're going to behave decently. The community should act the way we want ourselves to be met if we were in that situation. Then I have no doubt that the Storting is doing what is right today. Basic and auxiliary benefits shall provide financial compensation to cover the necessary additional costs in the light of permanent sickness, injury or lye. This means that parents of children with high care needs receive extra support. We all think that's right here. However, when children are admitted to long-term residence, they are at risk of losing this support, as they say that the help needs of the member are met by the public. Even if you can lose the right to basic and auxiliary benefits under the Law on Social Security, it hasn't been practiced before, but the consequence is that you risk losing aid the greater the need for help, because you're in hospital, which is really not a relief. I am of the opinion that hospitalization is not a relief. I can't really under any circumstances see what's liberating about it. Many parents have despaired. They live in the hospital with the children. Someone quits the job, some get sick themselves. If you don't set up for those who obviously need it, for children and parents in the most vulnerable situation, it will be a failure statement for the world's richest country. I can't imagine anything more strange than a country that has 10,000 billion. kr on book and oil money flowing in, sends an invoice to parents with sick children in hospital, with the dispatcher Statens Entrepreneurialszentral. Seriously -- I think most of us get hurt in the stomach just by the thought. But luckily, a total big thing says no to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3047	I would first like to thank SV for their excellent work to address the legislation that is important for parents with seriously ill children. SV has been in front of it in the past and is now able to succeed again. I want to be very brief. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party drew their opposition to the proposal through the Committee's proceedings when it became clear that the government would be dissented in the matter. I noticed that the representative Toning Riise said that the government lives well with it. Yes, I really hope the government lives well with a unanimous attitude. I just want to pay attention to the fact that the comments made by the Right are largely retained. There are comments such as ‘examine some aspects of the aid’, ‘set out a number of other issues’ and finally ‘require clarification’ in terms of law, cost and principles. I would like to say, for the record, that these remarks cannot be taken into account in the government's further efforts to implement the proposal, because the comments from the Right are not sufficient for the majority of the Storing. The majority of the population fully supports, without reservation, what is proposed by SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3056	Today is a good day for families who depend on the aid when their children are hospitalized. Today, Stortinget's SV agreed that seriously ill children who have been hospitalized for a long time should not be withdrawn from the rescue aid. Help is a social benefit that is given to families who care for and care for sick children and who have rather heavy care and care tasks in hospitals. He is important for families who are totally dependent on the fact that the schemes are tailored to their needs, and that the welfare state provides for those who need it the most, the most. It is now felt as a punishment for someone to have such a sick child, because they have kids who are hospitalized for a long time, while receiving a bill of refund from Nav for many thousand dollars because today's law is unfair and allows Nav to do so. It is the most vulnerable among us who need the decision Stortinget makes today. Those who already have heavy tasks and a lot of responsibility, need us to remove some of the extra taxes in everyday life that we do today. Vulnerable families who have seriously ill infants admitted to hospitals for more than three months must also have the possibility and the right to take care of their young and at the same time be able to cope financially with the expenses they have month by month. It is up to us as politicians, who are responsible for facilitating this. In this case, it is very gratifying that the government has finally turned around, after they themselves went out in the media and said they were not going to do it. The government first said that the kids get a discharge in the hospital and therefore they don't need the aid. For those that apply, reality is quite different from the government that went out with it. Nursing tasks tend to become more and more complicated with entry, with more responsibilities and concerns, while at the same time having a frequently sibling home that also demands its own. It is good that a mass mass today can be some that hospitalization for these seriously ill kids is not off, and that it is a matter of self-order that we should listen to the family and the lion's mother's fight for better dishes for these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3069	To experience that one own child is seriously ill or injured is in itself an impression for the close family. Knowing that a person receives a benefit to cover the extra costs of care and supervision is very important in such a situation. It provides financial security for families with a high level of care and care needs. The current system, where no support is lost in cases where hospital or institution stay is shorter than three months, is found not to be met in all cases. The objective of the support is to cover the actual additional costs. In order to implement this in practice, a three-month rule has been chosen to distinguish short-term withdrawals from long-term ones. It was only for the long-term suspension that an additional cost of care would be borne by the institution. This is a central theme of peer-to-peer reform, which the government is currently working on, where families with high needs for care are at the centre. However, when the aid cases during hospital stays come up before this work is completed, it is because we have seen that the exemption was linked to long-term hospital stays that do not work after the intention for everyone. Many children admitted to hospitals or institutions are in need of much the same care and care from parents there as at home. This will, of course, vary according to the age, condition and severity of the disease. Nevertheless, we see that it is too general and easy to conclude that no children need care beyond what the institution can offer. The staffing of the individual hospital or institution will vary and may be decisive for the additional needs to be met. In addition, the presence of mother and father in a difficult life situation gives children great security. It is also safe to know that the financial benefit does not go away if the delay is found to exceed three months. The Christian People's Party is therefore very pleased that a joint committee has supported this proposal, which ensures this group's security under very demanding circumstances, which it is to have a sick or injured child.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3082	The proposal we are discussing today concerns aid and basic aid. Aid is granted to persons who need special supervision and care because of permanent illness or injury so that they can pay a private individual for supervision and/or care. Increased assistance can be provided to children under 18 years of age where there is a particular need for supervision and care, and where the benefit improves the ability of the child to stay in the family home. The basic benefit shall cover specific current additional costs arising from permanent sickness, injury or lye. There is now an overall committee asking the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that children under the age of 18 are not drawn into basic or auxiliary benefits as a result of long-term hospitalisation. Of course, I'm going to follow up on that in an appropriate way. Parents of children in need of complex services face many challenges, including in response to auxiliaries. I fully agree that it is important that families of children in need of complex services have a good, safe and predictable framework for their lives. As some of the representatives have mentioned, the government is working on an equidistant reform. The aim of the co-equity reform is precisely to provide families and children with the need for complex services to experience a society that makes up and needs everyone. One of the objectives of the co-ordination reform is better coordination and coherence between the different schemes and the services of parents of children in need of complex services. In the context of the co-equity reform, it is also natural to discuss some of the arrangements we have for relieving families, both in terms of services and in terms of economics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3097	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3102	A majority of the committee asks the government to amend the law, but the way the law is amended and the way this is done in practice is of great importance. The council itself said that he would follow up in an appropriate manner. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State states that, if the rate itself is to be reviewed, it is necessary to clarify whether requirements are to be made for the care actually carried out. From that one can understand that the government wants Nav to be able to check if his parents are there and actually give his children this care. It seems completely unreasonable to me. What are the signals of the Council of State that this sends to families with seriously ill children? Is it that the government wants to follow up that way, by getting a sort of reporting regime for parents who are in the hospital with their sick children?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3111	When government councils answer the big committees, the point is not just to say what the government council thinks, the point is also to inform a case. This means pointing to various practical issues and choices that the majority of population either have to make explicitly — most often by commenting — or that they have to give signals or leave to the government to take. So I can say what's my starting point for this. The starting point, originally, is that we're working on a larger equilateral reform, and that there may be several different support schemes that it's natural to see in context. But when not only a majority, but a unanimous committee, have said this, there is something we have to do, and we have to do it in a simple and unbureaucratic way. It is also true that in the Committee's comments there will be some guidance for the government. I don't want to introduce a nine-time control system. I guess the point here is that we're going to make it easier for parents, not harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3120	Sounds like a good signal. I hope and assume that the government will follow those paths. This case is actually quite special, because based on the feedback we have received, it seems that there has been a change in practice – that the law has been there all along, but that Nav has begun to practice it differently. Is the Council aware that there has been a change of practice in Nav, and whether those changes in practice are an order?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3130	Now I have to answer that it will be proper, and then I also have to bear in mind that there has been another state council for three months: I am not aware that it has been ordered or ordered any practice change from Nav. But sometimes it is that Nav has a change of practice, and that may also be the case in this case. It may also be one of the reasons why a unanimous committee now says that there is a need to change the legislation so that you do not get a curtailment or lose the aid if you are in hospital for more than three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-09.ana.ud487e3135	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
