ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e44	On Friday 21 May, the Stortinget received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Guri Melby, Frank Bakke-Jensen and Henrik Asheim will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e53	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In two days, Friday this week, the first students will be drawn out for oral exams. The whole sector is raging and asking the Council of State to turn around. Melby, I've seen a lot of shit in the last few days. I was going to use the questionnaire to try to understand a little bit more, try to get answers from the Council of State. One would actually think it was the Christian People's Party that directed the Ministry of Knowledge, because what I'm left with after the last few days' debate is that it's faith and hope that's the government's only argument to force through oral exams, against professional advice. I should really also want this to be a normal year, that all students had received equal education, but it's pandemic, it's an extraordinary year and a big difference in what kind of education you've been given. I should also like the infection now to be gone, but it's infected, especially among young people, which causes schools to be shut down, and thousands of students are in waiting quarters. I would also like it to be isolated to a few individual municipalities, but as has been shown in the last few days: the infection pops up indiscriminately and across the country. I would also like us to be able to carry out the examination as normal, but when the teacher's organisations, the Children's Ombudsman, the Student's Organisation and the State Council's own professional directorate recommend the termination of an oral examination, it is for the sake of a fair and predictable assessment for the students. I think it's also important to clear up a little bit of the arguments. It is precisely this consideration of a fair and predictable assessment I am concerned with, and I would ask the Council of State to clarify: who really is the Minister of Knowledge listening to when she doubts that the oral examination must be conducted, against all the technical advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e64	It is absolutely right that nothing is normal this year. It's been a very special year for school students, for the country's teachers, for school leaders and for the municipalities. I just have to use this opportunity to say that I am insanely impressed by the efforts that have been made, and that, for the time being, we see that there are actually quite a number of people who have had a pretty good learning outcome this year – after all. I think we should be both proud and happy about that. It's important to our young people. In a normal year, a lot of students would now be sitting and having written exams. That's what usually happens right after May 17. We chose to cancel that already in February. Then we got a clear feedback from the sector that they wanted a clarification. They wanted to know what this six months would be like. They had to know what's going on with the evaluation. It was a difficult decision, we were clear at the time, because we believe that the examination has an important function in our assessment system. There is an opportunity to get an unwarranted assessment, an external assessment, it also provides important professional exchanges in School-Norway, and it provides an opportunity to make what is visible, in a different setting and to another person. But we also saw that the situation is very demanding. We couldn't guarantee the infection situation throughout the spring. That's why we chose to cancel the written exam, which is a huge rig, which involves thousands of students, where there are also a lot of people at the same time. The Education Directorate was already aware that oral examinations could be conducted. It's because it's localized. It can be adapted to the training that the student has had. There is also a completely different situation, where only three people meet, and it is also possible to facilitate the digital participation of the sensor. The task is given to the student 24 hours in advance, theme is given 48 hours in advance, it's a preparation time, and a lot of people have experience that it actually ends up being a pretty good experience, where students are shown new aspects of themselves. It's an abnormal situation. That's why we canceled all of them, most of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e75	I hear a government council that's busy describing what's happening in a normal year, but it hasn't been a normal year, it's not going to be conducted on the same line, and it's going to be fair. What I think is very special, is that I also feel that the Council of State really abuses its own trades directorate, because the Education Directorate, after the hearing, is crystal clear that one of the reasons for a fair and predictable assessment for the students believes that one should not conduct an oral examination. That's what the professional advice is based on. So why does the Council of State look so far away from the professional advice, both from its own trades union directorate and from all the other organizations and trades unions that I have mentioned, when the starting point is that of course we should want it to be a normal year, but that's not it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e82	Now I think I used the majority of my post to describe how abnormal this situation is -- we all know that it's very demanding, a pandemic is very difficult. We would like to give the sector much more predictability than what we've done, but it has just been impossible, and that's the infective situation that has contributed to it. Yes, the Directorate-General for Education's main recommendation was to cancel all exams. There were different reasons for different types of examinations, and they also clearly wrote from the start that oral examinations can be conducted. We made an overall decision of all the examinations, and then we chose to listen to the council and the sector that wanted to cancel, but there were also quite a number of votes in the sector at the time that we wanted to maintain some exams. The reason for this was, among other things, that we wanted to maintain the learning pressure. I've been standing on this pulpit many times in the last few years and talking about what we're doing to ensure that all students get the best possible training, and actually making sure that there's something there at the end that everyone's going to reach, I think I've been important to ensure good training right up until the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e89	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e94	I fully agree – the best possible training is the most important goal. But can the Council of State clarify which votes it was referred to? The clear advice of the Education Directorate was, in the light of the recommendations of the hearing, to cancel. In addition, the state council met yesterday with all the county councils. There was also a unanimous advice from all training managers in all counties that oral exams, on the basis of a professional recommendation, must be cancelled. They have now received support in a coup d'état and a letter from all the rapporteurs, who have the political responsibility for implementing it in the counties, which also says that one must cancel. So what are the votes that the Council of State has actually listened to? Is it her own inner voice only, or did she listen to some of the professionals who give clear advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e101	In all the decisions we've taken around the exam, we've focused on having an open process and being listening. When we decided in February to cancel about all the exams, we did so on the basis of a recommendation from our department. We had meetings with the trade unions, and we had meetings with the student organisation, and there were several people at the time who suggested that it was important to conduct some of the exams. I'm sure that the picture is perhaps a little more diverse than the one that the representative is passing on here today. I also think it's a little important that we look back at the situation last year. Then we opened the schools for the students. From the middle of May, there were a lot of people in high school and high school who were back. Then we got a lot of feedback that there were a lot of people who really didn't get the training started properly, and we also had examples of schools that actually gave the students leave from around 1 June. I believe it is important that we keep the pressure up until the end, and that all students are trained as well as possible. Therefore, we have considered it important to maintain one external assessment situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e108	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e113	Once again, it seems that the Council of State only has its internal voice to refer to. There were at least no other professional bodies or councils the state councils could come forward. But again — the professional advice is based on the need for a fair and predictable assessment. Let me take some examples of how this is now on Friday, where one student is drawn to physics. That student can take a vacation. For the purpose of infectious diseases, the physical examinations must not be carried out by him. Another student is drawn to English. The English teacher is in quarantine, and that student can also take a vacation. Student number three is drawn to Norwegian. The Norwegian teacher is unvaccinated and terrified of infection and knows that many will meet regardless of health status. He delivers self-announcement because of fear of infection. The student number three is also not allowed to take the exam. The student number four is drawn to history. The history teacher has been vaccinated and follows the most conscientiously up, and the fourth student sits down and reads, but gets a few hours before the exam from Infection Tracking that the student has been quarantined because of close contact. Doesn't the Council of State see how chaotic this is going to be, and just because of how unfair it's going to turn out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e123	I see that the representative has read in the same Facebook groups as me. Obviously, the exam you're taking is arbitrary. It'll always be like that. It's demanding for students to prepare for the exam, and I'm not going to underestimate that it's even more demanding this year, both for the students, for the teachers and for the sensor. I believe, however, that it is possible to implement. I also think it is important to add that we have said and been clear all the way to that if the inspection is not possible, either in a single school or in a municipality, or for that matter nationally, there is a basis for cancelling the examination. We have schools now where everyone is quarantined, and there may be examples of schools where there is a legitimate basis for cancelling exams. But there will be no consequences for the students, because we have made sure that everyone can still apply for admission to higher education. I feel that we have a code that has taken account of different situations, but everyone, both national and local authorities, needs to continuously assess the infection situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e132	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e137	I can also recommend that the State Council not only read the teachers' feedback, whether it is Facebook groups or the e-mails she receives, but also listen to the advice that teachers and students give, and the clear feedback that comes from a quite collective sector. In its answer now, the Council of State returns to its favorite response in this debate – that one makes continuous assessments of the situation. She really hasn't decided completely. For me, that part of the answer – when one says that the government is going to continuously assess the infection situation – really seems most like idle talk to get the time to go. I want to highlight in particular what has happened this week. When all the heads of training in all the counties say that one should cancel the examination, and when all the rapporteurs agree – what new assessments does the Council of State now make, and can the rapporteurs and trainers expect answers before Friday, when the first ones are to be drawn out for exams?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e146	Throughout this pandemic, we've been very busy having a close dialogue with the sector. I think the county councils can actually sign that we've had. We have had regular meetings with them to get an overview of the situation and to make sure that we constantly implement the right actions. That was also the basis that we had a meeting yesterday. I then wanted to get a status update from all the states on how they were doing in terms of conducting and planning exams, what kind of plans they have for students who, for various reasons, have to postpone taking exams, and such things. At that meeting, the rapporteurs said, quite correctly, that they wanted the exam to be cancelled. But they also said they're ready to take the exam if we're on our decision. They are prepared to conduct the exam. I think it was a very important message to get. But it is clear that when I get a clear response and a letter from the county councils, it is important that we follow it up. I have asked all the states to give me a status report on how many students are in quarantine, and how many schools are on the red level, and we will make a thorough assessment of the situation. It is clear that we have made our decision, but it will also be irresponsible not to continuously assess the current infection situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e155	Marit Knutsdatter Strand – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e160	Now that I have heard the round between the previous question and the council, this boils down to a question of fairness and justice. This year’s graduates, who have already been burdened by the fact that almost half of their youth, or half-time in high school, have been affected by insecurity, on the one hand, or very failing school everyday life, shall again be subject to uncertainty and new pressures, on their diploma. For some people, this is going on for months. By midnight there was an increasing infection in 46 municipalities. The pandemic is not over, and students are still in quarantine and waiting quarantine. In high school in Hadeland, I heard about a teacher who was in quarantine five times since Christmas. From the point of view of the Council of State that an oral examination has been given locally, why can the schools not decide for themselves whether it is appropriate and necessary to conduct an oral examination?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e167	We have now been in a pandemic for 14-15 months, and it has been very demanding in many of the country's municipalities. One of our priorities has been to maintain good training for students. That is why we have actually granted very few exceptions to the general regulations of the Training Act. We've actually been very clear and made very clear demands to the school owners that they have to extend incredibly far to give all students good training, and I also feel that they have. There are many who, after all, have received quite good training this year, and are prepared to take an oral exam. In a normal situation, we would carry out many, many exams now. We have canceled them all, most of them — for infectious diseases and for the sake of the burden on both teachers and students — but we believe that conducting one exam is both physically and practically possible. But the places where infectious diseases mean that it should be cancelled, there is also room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e174	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e179	What we're talking about here is 252,692 elephants, young people, who are now moving towards a reopening, a nervous last test, a possible oral exam waiting for them. This is young people who have been crazy for a year. At the school they have experienced cancellation of normal education, class tours, tournaments, school ball, preferences, fairy views. What is to rejoice in has been canceled. Then I think it's funny that the starting point of the government council is not: what does the youth need now? The rest of the system – the schoolleaders, the Education Directorate, the student organisations, the teachers’ organisations – thinks this is not the right thing to do. Why is it not the starting point of the Council of State which is best for young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e184	Now I haven't fined how many tenths and vg3 students we have, but I don't think that's 250,000. It's only the take-offs that are going to take the oral exam this year. We canceled it for everyone else. It's been a very demanding year, there's no doubt about it. And there's no doubt that maybe it's the social that's lost the most, both by not being able to do events, you haven't been allowed to be with someone you don't go into class with, you've had to stick to your cohort, and there's quite a lot of people who have had a lot of hours in front of the computer at home instead of being physically at school. I believe, however, that this is not an argument that the last weeks of school should only focus on social activities rather than on learning. I think it's important that we also pay attention to the fact that the school is a place to learn. I have no doubt that there are many who learn a lot from preparing for oral exams, and it's an important experience to carry on in life. Then I'm also quite sure that the teachers around are able to take very good care of them in the time we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e191	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e197	There's a perspective I think is very special, that it's oral exam youth needs now after the year they've been through. They now need an oral exam. The schoolteachers and teachers now need to preface and preface the students for an oral exam – instead of using the reopening to close different types of knowledge holes, and that people get a good memory from the sculetide saying, that one gets taken care of each other after a year that after all the sun tags have been dramatic to these young people. So I want to ask the Council of State once again: does the Council of State really think that this is the youth now needs, that they need an oral exam as an end to the year they've been through?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e204	I see that my main job through this pandemic is to ensure that the young people have gone to a school, that they have received good training, and that they do not suffer great losses that will cause them difficulties in life. That is why we have been busy maintaining the most normal school situation possible. It's clear that today's young people need a lot. There are many young people who have had a very difficult time. Many people need more follow-up than before. This is why the government has also spent quite a large amount of money on mental health aimed at just young people. That's why many schools also put emphasis on social activities these past few weeks, and I'm very happy about that, and I think that's also very true. But the position characters are set for the next week most of the places, and it is not that the weeks after which this is used to provide a new assessment basis or to seal the holes. I think it's quite possible then to carry out the oral exam, and I don't think the students necessarily get it very much better because we cancel the oral exam. I think it was right to cancel most of the exams, but I think it's quite possible to do one exam.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e211	Let's move on to the next main question
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e216	Then the Minister of Knowledge has finished his oral exam. Then I would like to draw up the council of Asheim, and then the voters will have to decide whether or not they are looking at as a graduate or not. For approx. a month ago, on behalf of the Progress Party, I made proposals for a stepping-up plan for study places within, among other things. medicine and nursing. This was done by the Progress Party because in some areas Norway does not train enough people to do what the labour market needs. It is especially a big problem that we do not train enough doctors, nurses, and psychologists. In the last SSB projections, the need varies from 20,000 to almost 30,000 in terms of the number of nurses we will lack in just 15 years, and this lack of nurses will affect both patient safety and healthcare. Some might think that the defect is due to the fact that there are too few who will be nurses, but it's not like that. A week ago we heard on the NRK's News Morning that there are 13,370 applicants for 5,100 places of study. We have known this for a while, so it was important for the Progress Party when we were in government to increase the number of places of study in health education. Since 2014, we have contributed to 1,600 new places of study for health education, of which 450 are for nurses. But this is not enough, so we want an obliging escalating plan to close this gap. Last week, we received a majority in this room for several places of study for nurses. This is something the Progress Party also proposed in its alternative state budget. We did not get through with the government's autumn as it was, and the government voted back last week to no on a escalating plan. What is it that makes the government say no to such a stepping-up plan and with the knowledge and the will of such a lack of nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e227	I very much agree with the representative's description of the need for more nurses, more doctors and more psychologists. That is why – as the representative pointed out – we have – also in the years when the Progress Party was part of the government, stepped up and set up several study places also in nursing care. In addition, we have the education promise adopted at the time of the pandemic, which has now been continued with a new coal of 4000 new places of study this autumn, creating targeted places, for example: to nurses. What's the challenge of educating more nurses, as the representative quite rightly says, is not that people don't apply. There are many applicants for nurse training, there are very good nurse trainings in Norway. The big plug in the system is about places of practice. It's also feedback from the institutions, which would like to receive more, but they're not sure if they have enough practice. This is why, in the Employment Relevance Communication that was discussed and adopted in the Stortingen just a few weeks ago, we addressed just how we can commit municipalities more clearly to taking in practical students, that we can also use the private actors that provide health and care services to receive practical places. We will also consider further measures if we see that this does not improve. That's the big plug. The reason why we have voted against an escalation plan is simply that these assessments are carried out in the current budgets. I can guarantee the representative – this is not a class of departures, we have great plans to continue – that there will be more places to study both in psychology, in nursing and in medicine. This is also the reason why we have made the changes within the degree regulation, which makes that e.g. Psychology can now be offered by those institutions which wish to offer it and which have the approval of NOKUT. It's simply because it's a stepping-up plan – now this is adopted, we're doing it, and of course we're going to follow the decision of the Storting. So that's the reason, not because we're dealing with multiple places, but because it's right to see this in relation to each budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e240	I am pleased that the Council of State promises to deliver on a stepping-up plan, even though his party voted against. The government argues as if this is turning open doors, that that's why the government's parties voted no. The door may be wide open, but it may seem that the government has forgotten to take the famous doorstep mile. I am therefore pleased that the majority at Stortinget has intended to push the government through the open door. By April we could read that the WHO estimates that the world lacks six million nurses. That means that we can't rely on imports of that type of labour force and vicars, we have to train them ourselves. This weekend, the Norwegian Association of Nurses was once again warning against development and indicated that today we lack 7 000 nurses. What is the Norwegian Nurses' Association not understanding, as the Council of State has obviously understood since the Council of State does not seem to be particularly concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e247	I have some problems with accepting the premise that I disagree with the Nursing Association that we need more nurses. What I said in my previous answer was just what is the doorstep. The doorstep is not the willingness to award places of study. The threshold is not candidate number. The doorstep is the practice site, and that's why we've addressed this in our own biggest message and are also going to work on this. One thing is the specialist health service, they take in practice students, while the municipalities, where we know that the great need for nurses is going to be in the future because there are more elderly, do not take in enough practice students. This means that we have to figure out how to commit the municipalities more clearly. We haven't gone to the law in the big message, and got in touch with it, but it's one of the things that naturally hangs there. We want to use all actors in health and care – how they can help train the nurses of the future, as I feel that the representative and my party agree, that there are also many actors involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e252	There will be follow-up questions – first Bengt Rune Strifeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e257	On a national basis, Norway will lack 20 000–30000 nurses in 2035. We have to take this challenge seriously. Alta municipality lacks more than 30 nurses only to meet the municipality's needs today. In the treatment of RNB in 2018, we received funding for 100 places of study for nursing training. UiT Campus Alta was given the means to establish decentralised nursing training, which was an important step towards meeting the challenges of the future. After three years of nursing education in Alta, there is now a break, after the University Board of UiT Norway's Arctic University chooses not to admit students in 2021 and chooses to give priority to starting up in Kirkenes instead. The challenge with such a break is that the training offer is then considered to be closed. Will the Council of State take action to ensure the political will to have decentralised nursing training in both Alta, Kirkenes and Hammerfest, and that the start of education can take place every year at all the places of study in Finnmark, and train sufficient numbers of nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e266	In terms of where institutions choose to place their education, both the campus structure and how they want to organise it, there is a trust that the Stortinget has given to the institutions themselves – the governments of the institutions can even dimension and choose where they want to deploy the resources. This is a principle which, quite recently – in fact, last week in the context of the management message, which says something about how to manage the university and higher education sector – continued to be endorsed, including by the representative’s party. One might wish for an education to be there instead of there, but finally the question is: Should the Stortinge in Oslo decide this, or should it be, for example. Troms and Finnmark and the University Boards of UiT or Nord University themselves are allowed to choose where they want to offer the various courses? I believe in everything that they know best about the needs, but also the structure of their region. That is why I think it is right that the decision be taken there, even though, of course, the decisions of the universities' governments may be divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e271	Bengt Rune Strifeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e277	The 2018 allocation was granted to strengthen nursing training in Finnmark, and the government specifically linked the funds to make a promise in Alta. The allocation was intended as part of the work to get more health professionals in Finnmark, where Campus Alta, with closeness to specialist health services in Alta, was naturally to bet on. During the short period of education, 90-100 students were admitted to Alta. The party colleague of the Council of State Kent Gudmundsen was clear in his statements in the Altapost as late as April 24th this year: ‘– There is no doubt that the 20 places were intended for Alta. It is particularly unfortunate when there is a lack of professional staff throughout Finnmark, and Campus Alta has a central role to play in fulfilling that mission. It's nice that they start in the churches, but that doesn't rule out having the offer in Alta as well. As long as there are students, there is also a basis." I agree with Gudmundsen. Does the Council share the views of its party colleague and will contribute to the possibility of admission to nursing training in Alta this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e291	First of all, I fully agree with Mr Gudmundsen that establishing places in the churches does not preclude having them in Alta. But my point is that finally the institution has made an assessment here; that they are now taking a break to create more places in the Kirkenes. You can agree or disagree with that, but if I'm going to be faithful to the governance mechanisms we have, which the Stortinget has also joined, it means that as a government council I can't go in, sit in a department in Oslo and tell the University of Tromsø where to place the nursing education, in Alta or the churches. That being said, it is quite right that the money that has been allocated is also meant for nursing training in Finnmark, now Troms and Finnmark, but the old Finnmark, and if it is now established in the Church, it is a choice that the university has made. But they haven't stopped nursing in Alta, they've paused it, as the representative quite rightly says. We're going to follow this closely, but that's how we control the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e298	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e303	Now the previous questioners have talked about the numbers for lack, so I'm not going to repeat it. However, nurses often apply for jobs where they have had practice. They do not get that practice in municipalities, because there are too few places of practice there. And we know that after the interaction reform, with the large tasks that have moved from hospitals to the municipalities, we need many more nurses in the municipalities. Why has the government not done more to ensure that the nursing students can be exposed to the tasks of the local health service, and thus also ensure that when they have completed their education, they can be recruited more easily by the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e310	This is why we have made a big message about this – not just about this, but about a very important part of the employment relevance message, i.e. how to link education more closely to the labour market, is about places of practice. I very much agree with the representative's description. We know it's in the community health service we're going to need the professionals in the future. It is then important that several of the municipalities accept students of practice. I'm going to be absolutely honest that I've had a good dialogue both with the KS and to the extent with the municipal minister about how far we can go in ordering the municipalities to do this. But I find it hard to believe at the same time that if we e.g.. only legislate, the problem is automatically solved. It is also about capacity – some of which we refer to in the Storing Communication – and better contact between institutions and municipalities, so that students have early predictability of where to have practice. It is clear that I have great respect for the fact that the municipalities experience it as a pretty big task on top of everything else they are going to do, also to contribute to practice places. So we have to help the municipalities by making this as simple as possible for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e319	Tuva Moflag – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e324	It's not just being exposed to practices that make it easier for municipalities to recruit nurses. We know that nine out of ten young people today want a steady job. It's about securing your own future, pensions, mortgages, establishing yourself, etc. Permanent and full positions are important not only for the protection of infection, the safety of individual employees and the predictability of the patient, but also for ensuring recruitment. We have to show young people who will be nurses that it is a real alternative to having to shop guards and have a totally unpredictable working day. Does the Council of State believe that full-time culture, both in municipalities and in hospitals, is an important step in ensuring recruitment – not just for the study but for the profession? We see that many people want to be nurses, but they don't necessarily work like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e331	Yes, and I have to say that some of the things that have impressed me are that the applicants for nurses have gone up sharply under the pandemic. At a time when we have seen that nurses have been wearing masks and in a tough work life, we have nevertheless received several applicants for nursing training. It's incredibly motivating to see. It shows that many young people want to contribute. It is clear that having a full-time culture is essential both for recruiting and not least for keeping nurses in the job as long as they can. One of the things this government has done – now I am not going to trample far into the responsibilities of other government councils – is to introduce more flexible tournaments, which have led to the drop in involuntary part-time, including among nurses. But we have a lot left to do, and the Minister of Health has also said it clearly, and we need to get a full-time culture both in hospitals and in the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e338	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e343	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. That this government is not necessarily busy by the county government is nothing new. In 2016, army and home security were forgotten in the long-term plan and pushed out on their own land assets. The status in 2021 is that the Home Guard has been reduced by 5,000 soldiers, and the Army is still waiting for new tanks while they are decommissioned helicopters. We also have to look a long time for a full set of Brigades. It is not only the Central Party that is concerned that Norway should have a strong land power. It is also important for NATO. The Allied Defence Ministers agreed that Norway should prioritize and develop a fully capable, heavy infantry brigade with its support. NATO has recently criticised the government's defence priorities, precisely because they do not lead Norway to meet NATO commitments and the strength requirements on the ground. It's serious. NATO writes that it is clear that Norway and NATO are in practice not very well tuned in defence planning priorities, especially in rural areas. The centre party believes it is important that Norway takes its responsibility seriously and that a potential front line state gets the brigades in line with NATO requirements. Until Norway does this, allies may potentially have to take part of Norway's legitimate part of the burden of the alliance, says NATO. Is that what you want? Do you want soldiers from allied countries to come in and do the job? How does the Minister of Defence address the criticism from NATO, and what concrete action will he take to ensure that Norway meets the NATO requirements for military and home security by 2024?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e356	I thank the representative for a very good question. It is quite right that the capacity requirements of NATO are not entirely consistent with defence planning in Norway. It's a very good observation, both by the representative and by NATO. We've also made NATO aware of that. The long-term plan adopted in Stortingen now fills the capacity requirements we get from NATO very well. We've just been through new negotiations with NATO on capacity requirements, so we want to deliver the fully mechanized brigadon. It has been adopted in the long-term plan. We want to deliver on air, we want to deliver on sea, we want to deliver on cyber, so when the next assessment from NATO comes, it will look much better than the previous one. But it's often the case that processes are not completely synchronous. NATO is a big institution planning its way. I must then be allowed to comment on the introduction to the representative. It's true that we took down the number of Homeland crews, but we've done another act that strengthens Homeland protection. It's that we've made sure everyone in Homeland is equipped, and we've been trained. We've got some holes this year because of the pandemic, but most of the areas are going to be trained. It wasn't like that before. Most people need to know what kind of mission they have, and they need to be equipped to carry out that mission. It has been shown that the promise of Homeland Protection has been useful when we have through a pandemic had to use it also to help us in civil, civil support apparatus. Then the organized troops are able to read a mission and carry it out, that is, go in step to support civil society. The army has helicopters, but that's always the way you have to prioritize between capacities. It will always be. An important part of our NATO membership is that allied capacities are here and training with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e368	I thank you for your answer. What I might want to ask you is what time you're going to be able to meet these constraints. Governments call Homeland. Home security is an important part of the country’s land power and an important part of its defence capabilities. We've seen it not least in the pandemic, but also otherwise, that capable men and women around the country stumble upon when an accident or crisis strikes. Then it should also be lacking that the state meets the women and the men with respect. Holiday money has been a bad thing that's been going on for a long time. The Home Guard data have won the lawsuit against the state. Nevertheless, his individual being at large costs. The council has regretted this at several times, he has said that he will clean up, but I can't see that the council has cleaned up. Will the Council of State now ensure that the State takes on paying the costs of the HV Sol data in this case, so that one can set a worthy sentence for all involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e377	It is absolutely right that the holiday money issue in the Home Office is a very broken matter. It is quite right that we should have acted differently earlier. Fortunately, we have been made up and also taken the accompanying consequences it turned out to have, that the district managers were also entitled to holiday money. With regard to the costs of the case, Stortinget has also said that it is important that the courts provide for a moderate level of them. There is a legal certainty principle and a legal certainty argument behind it. We have covered the costs that the court has acknowledged. I'm recording that there are a lot of numbers today. There are also numbers out there, an invoice from a lawyer, who has not been promoted to court, has not been processed there. We can't do anything about that. We have covered all the costs that the court has awarded to the parties involved in this. I think that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e386	It opens for follow-up questions – first Emilie Enger Mehl.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e391	It seems almost as if the Minister of Defence rejects the fact that Norway is not in line with NATO’s demands, which is strange because the Stortinget has just dealt with a proposition that the government itself has presented, where this criticism is made. Nor is it surprising that Norway does not meet NATO’s strength requirements after the government has embarked on a long-term defence plan that does not go beyond the lowest level of defence ambition. There are more than one Central Party that has responded to Norway’s failure to comply with NATO’s demands – which the government itself has negotiated. Tormod Heier points to, among others: the fact that NATO criticism is due to the fact that the Norwegian Defence Budget is tied up in expensive investments, fighter aircraft, submarines and maritime patrol aircraft, and that the government is not willing to give priority to the Army and the Home Guard at the same time. The question is: what changes to the defence budget will the Minister of Defence make in order to meet the NATO commitments? Or is it completely impossible to meet those commitments within today's long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e398	First, I have to be allowed to say that when I stand here and say that yes, there is a difference between NATO's demands and what we have presented in the long-term plan, it is hard to understand that I am trying to hide it. It must be understood in this Chamber that I agree that there is a difference between what NATO has demanded and what we have supplied. I also said that it will be, because there are time shifts in these processes. I've read what Tormod Heier says, but it's actually such that if we had listened to Tormod Heier and spent less money on expensive fighter planes, spent less money on expensive maritime surveillance planes, we would have been even further away from the requirements of NATO. They're very pleased that we've invested in F-35. They're very pleased that we're investing in maritime surveillance planes and can be eyes and ears in the north. They're very satisfied with the investments we make, because it fits the task they think we should do. So Tormod Heier and I are fundamentally disagreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e405	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e410	Then I realize that the government is not willing to give priority to the Home and Army in addition to that. Another key element of defence planning and NATO’s requirements for Norway is to invest in the necessary capacities. At present, there is also considerable concern about the cost of the F-35 programme. On May 20, the Nations wrote that the U.S. National Audit warns against higher costs than expected. A recent hearing of the U.S. Armed Services Committee found that the hourly cost of flying an F-35A is currently around NOK 274 000, while the Norwegian Air Force informs the Evening Post that the hourly cost of flying an F-35A is only NOK 110 000. So there's a pretty big anomaly there. In any case, there are now several countries that have started to re-evaluate the number of fighter aircraft, which can make the price higher per plane, and which can then have consequences for the Norwegian acquisition. Then my question is, why is the hourly rate 150 pst? higher in the United States than in Norway, and fear the Minister of Defence for a cost-reimbursement of the F-35 programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e419	Here I must be allowed to spend some time at the beginning, because I replied that we bet on army and home protection. We're buying a lot of equipment for the Army, we're building the Army with more staff, we're going to have a fully mechanized brigade. We have equipped the personnel in the Home Office so that everyone has the equipment they need. They train, the areas are to be practiced every year, it's a completely different shelter now than what we saw a few years ago. So there's a difference between how to calculate the hourly rate in the United States and how to calculate it in Norway. We've also told you about that every year. Here you compare apples and pears. I don't think that's a good idea. The flight cost we calculate in Norway is it costs to fly a plane an hour, with maintenance and those things. In the United States, you bring a lot of other things. It is a goal in the fighter aircraft program to reduce costs as much as possible, and it has also been successful so far. So far, Norway’s bill has been 8 billion. It is cheaper, simply because you have managed to reduce the cost of the programme, and that is a job you continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e428	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e433	After a decision by the government, an American nuclear submarine went to Kai in the municipality of Tromsø. This happened after permanent protests from people and local government in the city – and in a situation where we do not have the necessary contingency plans or impact assessments in place. It's caused a lot of anxiety, both out of readiness and because one continues to see a reality in the north of increasing tension. Obviously, the councils got upset and organized a popular meeting in Tromsø to listen to people's unrest on May 3. On the same day he went out into the country's largest newspaper and reported: "This is Tromsø in a nutshell. There's too little military presence in Tromsø. You walk around on a little pink cloud there. There is higher military activity in the north, and more activity from Russia. The idea that a city can register out of this reality I don't understand anything about." Since then, the Minister of Defense has repeatedly minimized people's concerns about submarine attacks, both the risk of accidents and the fact that people in Tromsø are critical of being dragged into a military escalation. After all this, both against local populace and against a troubled population at the public meeting, I give the councils here and now a new opportunity to ‘live’ in the nation’s national assembly in a proper way to calm the Tromsø population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e447	Then I also get the chance to stay within the framework of parliamentary language – it can also be useful in a matter like this. It is not right for the representative to claim that there were no contingency plans in place when the submarine hit Tromsø. It is a prerequisite that the Directorate for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Preparedness authorises us to grant a concession, that the emergency plans are in place. My main concern in this case, which I have been working with for three years, is that before calls can be made, there should be contingency plans in place, emergency plans should be practised, and information should be given to the citizens. Everyone worked until the call, and the last field exercise was Friday before. So when the representative says that there are no contingency plans, that there is no equipment, it helps to create greater unrest than we have, because it's about disinformation. I have been very clear that emergency plans should be put in place. It was one of the most important things we worked on with the municipality of Tromsø, simply because at the first physical meeting I had, which was with former Vice-President Jarle Aarbakke, he said that this kind of call could not happen in Tromsø, because there were no contingency plans. Then my thought was that maybe you should get some contingency plans. He could refer to fire in a Russian jet that could have become a really critical situation. That is why I have said that when you have spent so many years getting emergency plans in place, yes, you probably can not have taken it seriously. But we have done through a long-term, good work with the municipality of Tromsø, with the state administrator, with Health-Nord, with the Directorate of Radiation Protection and Nuclear Preparedness – all involved – to put in place both a ROS analysis and a contingency plan. We have practised it, and we could get that call within the legislation and the law that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e459	The analyses on which emergency plans were to be made were insufficient. In the analysis of needs, for example, one assumed that: that North Norway's largest brewery, Mack, was located in Tromsø. But it doesn't. Everyone from there knows it's moved out of the municipality, to another municipality. Such things, big ones are missing, meant that the first thing in March was what was the basis for creating contingency plans. But what might be striking in the article to the Council of State is that he actually doesn't answer the challenge after countless outcomes. «Rosa cloud», various possibilities of «amateurs» are directed against ordinary people and are not protected by parliamentary language here in the hall, but they are far beyond the line. What is the Council of State's message to the Tromsø population, which is concerned that accidents can occur that can have a major impact on the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e466	It is not one of the statements made by the representative here, which has been directed at the citizens of Tromsø. Everyone has been targeted at political leadership in Tromsø, which I have worked closely with in this matter. None of the opinions given by the representative is addressed to the employees of the municipality of Tromsø, those who have worked on these matters. Everyone has been targeted at political leadership in the municipality of Tromsø and the statements they have made on the matter. So it's absolutely right that the defense has learned from this episode how to be professionally more good at approaching a community with these kinds of things, taking lessons from it and taking criticism that things were not clear enough early enough. But the most important thing to do in response work is to agree on a risk and vulnerability analysis and on who is responsible for the different fields. What are the agencies that are going to work on this, what responsibility do you have, what do you need? It's a consensus you can only reach by working well with emergency plans, and it was late in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e473	There will be follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e478	Then we note that it is good to behave badly with colleagues who are politicians, and local trustees in the municipality of Tromsø, while against the people of my council that he has not acted arrogantly. But from the people's meeting on May 3rd, I have received several messages from people who experienced a government council that was extremely arrogant in the face of people's concerns. An important element of security policy is just trust. When the tensions around us increase, it's very central that ordinary people are involved with those who make the decisions. When the Council of State laughs at people's concerns about developments in the north, he is involved in creating conflict. When people don't listen, it's part of creating an atmosphere of distrust at a time when decisions are required to be firmly anchored. Does the Minister of Defense believe that there is a need for greater security in the north when he waltzes over local self-government and ridicules the concerns of ordinary people? Does he believe that security can be based on mistrust?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e483	I'm absolutely sure in the vast majority of political meetings I'm in, there will be someone who sees me as arrogant. I've got a lot of good feedback after the people's meeting in Tromsø, both that this was informative, and that it was very nice to clarify who has the different roles, who is involved in such an event. When a local government takes time to think they're so important that they're not going to take their share of the preparedness, of the defense of the country, it's trying to steer a debate on the wrong track. That's what we've been trying to get in. It is not that you can say in Tromsø that this cannot be taken, it must be taken by neighbouring municipalities. The neighbouring municipalities set up, they made their contingency plans, they thought this was very important, and that it was good emergency work to be allowed to work on these types of plans. At least I am very pleased that we now have a good emergency plan in Tromsø. We have raised the preparedness significantly with the process we have been through now, even though it has taken a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e492	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e497	It is good for the Minister of Defence to stand still, because this is the last questioning procedure, and there are very few in the Chamber. Maybe they're at Akershu's fortification, and that might also apply to the press leg. My question is about coordination of preparedness work, which has been a major concern of this government. Now the Bergen Engines case is going up here on Friday, but what is the important lesson from this case is the management, coordination and coordination of security work. In order to ensure security, we need better coordination, which has not been successful this time, but it is also necessary for the Council of State to do its job. What happened in this case was that the government pulled the emergency brake in the last minute and used § 2-5 of the Safety Act. They stopped the sale because it would have great military strategic significance and would be contrary to the security interests of Norwegian and Allies. In order to avoid the need to pull the emergency brake in the future and stop the sale in the last few years, it is important that we list companies subject to the provisions of the Safety Act, so that industry can predictability in the coming years. List entry is not new to the Security Act. We got a new security law in 2018, as the Ministry of Defence proposed, but this was already stated in the 1998 Security Act, so it is nothing new. My question is: how many companies and other businesses has the Minister of Defence made sure to list under Section 2-1 of the Security Act? My question is how many companies he has done this with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e508	It is a question I do not yet have an answer to. That's basically a good question, but there's also a number that will vary, probably for the defence sector every year, because companies will go in and out depending on the contracts they have. It is a very important matter, and I am very pleased that the Storting is busy with it. When you say that this is very important for the security interests of Norwegian and Allies, there are two things about it. Now we've just had another discussion going on in the north, and we've just had a foreign minister's meeting in the Arctic Council, which was very good. In that picture we should remember that every time we go to something as drastic as stopping such a sale, it must be legally justified. We can't because of a mood picture or because of open threat assessments from the intelligence services or other operators on autopilot when we're going to stop something like this because this is a Russian company, or because there's someone we don't have security cooperation with. We have to make thorough assessments every time. I must also be allowed to say that another experience we want to make is that the next time this case comes up, it will not be to recognize – it will certainly be a completely different type of case. The job that all the agencies now do with basic national functions, where you go through their entire sector to see which companies are in – do you have some basic national functions, are there any functions within your area of responsibility that are so important that they are central to national security? – is now being done in all sectors. It is a comprehensive job, and it is a job that teaches both civil servants and politicians something every day. We're sitting with this job, it's very difficult, but it's very useful, and the lists will change from week to week and from month to month.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e517	The Corona Commission has also pointed out a serious lack of government coordination in terms of preparedness work, and in recent days we have seen open-stage failure of coordination after the government decided to immunise 500 people in the central government apparatus. There is also the defence minister involved, because it is the health of the defence who puts these vaccines in place. One thing is that the government has not consulted Stortinget about this emergency vaccination, but this is also about preparedness, and the Minister of Justice says that it is for the sake of readiness that 500 key individuals should take the vaccine. The Health Policy Spokesman in the Right also says that – he takes the vaccine for preparedness. But the Minister of Health disagrees and won't take the vaccine. Who does the Minister of Defence agree with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e522	For the sake of my travel abroad – I'm going to the NATO Summit, I'm going to NORDEFCO, I'm going on some other trips, important for what I've got – I was offered this vaccine several weeks ago. The explanation of why was obvious to me. That's it yet. So I've taken the vaccine a long time ago. I am not going to interfere with the discussion between the Minister of Health and the Health Policy spokesman whether that is right or not. I think it's a good reason that we should be vaccinating critical functions as the situation is now. We're doing it in the Department of Defense, too. We pick out some personnel, we have someone in IT that is important not get sick, we have someone else that is important not get sick, and then we use the vaccines we have been given. But to decide between the Minister of Health and the Health Commissioner, I hope that I will not do anything about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e527	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e533	This is the government's decision. It is also the case that the government has asked the defense to set up, and it has adopted a separate regulation for it, a separate regulation for the defence assistance under a pandemic. If it is that we ask the Defense to perform a service, I assume – paragraph 1 – that the government agrees that this is an important social function, that you do not do it as a kind of offer. Then it's because it's important for the sake of preparedness. And it's already in the Aid Guide that you have to use the Defense unless society has the ability or the ability to handle this on its own. So my question is, who asked the defense's sanity to stand for this vaccination? Was it the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, or was it the Ministry of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e538	It is an aid request that has come a long time ago, and it is simply about logistics. We have the Sanitary of the Defense present in the vicinity of Akershu's fastening. They've given some of those vaccines throughout the pandemic, and they've done many of the tests that have been necessary throughout the pandemic. When we have been in this kind of crisis, it has been important that all the resources of society have found each other. We could also offer resources from the Defense simply because we were present at Akershu's fastening. That's why you've had a team that's been running testing for us the times it's been necessary, and so you've used them to set the vaccine. It's probably that it's not a threat. It's simply that here were the available nurses, they could do that work for the government and now for the Storting, and then they do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e543	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e548	I register that I am not getting an answer to the question. Who asked for assistance? Is there anything the Minister for Defence has put at his disposal? The Korona regulation is very comprehensive and thorough: ‘The DSB shall consult the Police Directorate and other relevant authorities as necessary and shall request assistance from the Defence Operational Headquarters.’;» [[HDIR]] DSB is then the requesting authority in that type of case. So the County can ask for help. But I note that the Minister of Defence cannot answer, firstly, whether the entire government is behind the request that the defence should ask for assistance or who has asked for assistance. Is it the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, or is it the health authorities that have asked for assistance to vaccinate 500 key individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e560	The request for assistance is from a long time ago, in view of testing, it came from the Prime Minister: In the College of Government, do we have someone that is easy to use, that can be available? The defense could provide the defense's sanitation. They have been used for testing during the months we have been through, and now they are also used for vaccination. As far as consensus is concerned, there is agreement in the government that we should offer the 500 vaccines. So is it, I'm registering, some government councils who have said they don't need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e567	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e572	This is very strange, because it's asking the defense to assist when we're in a situation where it's about preparedness. There is nothing to do as a service offer to politicians. No one wants it, and no one wants it. But it's like asking for assistance from the Defence Sanctity, for which the Minister of Defense is responsible, without all members of the government thinking that this is so very important in relation to the overall preparedness of society. There is therefore disagreement among the members of the government on the issue of vaccines, but there is a consensus on requesting the defence. It's a little strange considering that the defense is now representing 500 key people, and the defence minister is the top responsible for the health of the defense, when there are people in the government who think this is not so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e579	This was a surprisingly bad attempt to create a conspiracy. It's not that hard, this. It's very good that we can use the entire resources of society to get through a pandemic. I think we've been very good at it through the pandemic, and the defense has contributed where they can. In the case of disagreement, there is no disagreement in the government that we should offer the 500 vaccines to critical key individuals. It is agreed that this should be offered. It is agreed that the departments should distribute it and that the courts should distribute it. There is also agreement that it should be offered to Stortinget. The fact that there are then two or three government councillors who have said no to taking the vaccine does not mean that they disagree that we allocate the 500 vaccines to key individuals for emergency purposes. But they said, "I'd like to be in the regular queue."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e588	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e593	Back in January, the PST came in its threat assessment with a warning about foreign purchases of properties, businesses and natural resources. Right after that, we were through the Bergen Engines case, which has shown the seriousness of it. On January 17th it was Question Time, and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum asked Erna Solberg if she was concerned about foreign purchases of natural resources and land properties because Chinese and Russians, for example. it can be used to secure control and influence in Norway. We know that the Right has put forward proposals for the liberalisation of concession laws, and the Senter Party has promoted in our proposal to ensure control over the trading of shares that own forests, so we do not risk selling them abroad. Is the Minister of Defence in a preparedness perspective concerned that Russian and Chinese interests are at risk of being controlled in Norway by the purchase of natural resources, soil and forest properties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e600	Here I think it is important that we do not act on autopilot if we hear ‘Russian’ and if we hear ‘Chinese’. There's two reasons for that. First of all, it's about having respect for our neighbor in the east. We are going to have trade with Russia and relations with Russia in a lot of areas. Then it's a little problematic if we make the impression that everything Russian is evil and dangerous. Then we've done a job in the Security Act when it comes to exactly what the representative is dealing with. It is a bit of the job that is now taking place with basic national functions, where security screening is done in all sectors to see what may be important. These include: in the case of seafood. Fishing has now stopped a transfer of a shipping company because there is uncertainty about who is the owner constellations around, so the Minister for Fisheries has frozen it. It's the kind of thing that will come up in the future. We must have a law that is appropriate, and then we must have well-founded law behind the decisions we make. It's a comprehensive job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e606	Emilie Enger Mehl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e611	In Norway, we have concession laws. We have a long tradition of doing this, which has been very important to protect Norwegian countries, Norwegian natural resources and to ensure that they remain Norwegian, and that there is no risk of doing so, for example. investors in Beijing own important resources in Norway. It's about economics, and it's also about having control and sovereignty in our own country. When the Council of State says that a job has been done with regard to the Security Act, it is still such that even if we are going to be open to foreign investors, we do not have the tradition of being there in Norwegian soil and forest because it stands in a very special position. Does the Minister of Defence believe that the concession laws are important for national control over who owns forests and land in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e618	Yes, I mean it, but it's probably not that I, as the representative, believe that the concession laws are the fascist thing to control everything. Norwegian industry — in the form of mineral industry, forest industry — has to deal with the fact that there is a market out there. We should be aware that we have successful Chinese ownership in Norway and successful Russian ownership in Norway in many sectors, including minerals. with Elkem. There is access to knowledge and a market for products, and that is also important. The concession laws can be seen from several sides. I understand that with ownership and control, but it is probably also the case that the concession laws have led to the fact that we have quite a few thousand small farms standing down in Norway because the concession laws make it almost impossible to do anything more with them. There I think it might be of national interest to look at adjustments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e625	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e630	We could read in the evening post on 21 May that the members of the Arctic Council were gathered to mark the 25th anniversary of the Council. At the same time, Russia is taking over the Presidency of the Council. In this context, the representative of the Right-wing Rivers, who is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, spoke: ‘Many suggest that Russia is skeptical about releasing China into the Arctic, due to the security policy importance of this area. [[...]] Russia and Norway have a common interest in limiting China’s activity in the Arctic.’» A few days later, the same representative said to Dagbladet: «Russia has been in political war with the West for the last decade through the use of various faith-breaking instruments. Russia operates in the grey zone between war and peace in an outspoken and destructive manner.» This seems to be an attempt to ride two horses – working with Russia to limit China’s activity in the Arctic, or to reject a country that is going to operate in the grey zone between war and peace in an outspoken and destructive way. The intelligence service has previously stated that China is going to be a military power in Nordic neighbourhoods. This, combined with economic use of power, investment and strategic procurement, contributes to weakening Western autonomy in the long term. So my question is, does the Council of State agree or disagree that there should be cooperation with Russia to stop Chinese influence and presence in the northern regions? To put it another way: which of the two descriptions of the representative of the Rivers does the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e649	If I can get to have my own feeling about that situation, I prefer it. It's true that we've had a Russia that's built up military capacity, we have a Russia that's been more impressive, we have a Russia that's further south, closer to our coasts, and is practicing more in our neighbourhoods. Part of it is completely legitimate, building up military capacity. I lived so close to the Russian military forces in the 1990s that it was not preferable to have disillusioned forces on the other side of the border, not paid and poorly equipped. Then we see more major activization a day. There is something we are discussing both in NATO and also in an EU/NATO context, how the West should position itself, and we have chosen to be more on the western side than on the eastern side. So is the observation now that we do not see China militarily present in the northern regions, but we see them present with research, and we see them present with research projects in China targeting the northern regions – and against international law and interpretation of different conventions as a small country upon which Norway relies. I am concerned that we are clear in our communication with Russia on international law and the violations they have committed in Ukraine. At the same time, we are harnessing ourselves to have as many other channels as possible to communicate with Russia through. That's why I'm very happy that we have a very good fishing cooperation. I'm glad we're making search and rescue agreements with them, and working well on the northern sea areas. I'm glad it was a ministerial meeting in the Arctic Council that came out as positive. Then we shall be observant of China's role in the future. But here's the same rule as with Russia. We have to be obsessive about our allies, because we can't easily imagine that we're going to have something Norwegian alone in such a complicated worldview that we're going into now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e660	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Let me just follow up by mentioning that there has been an agreement between Biden and Putin in June, and it is in itself positive that the two presidents meet. I think we all agree on that. What does the Council of State think will be on the agenda of such a meeting, and does the Council of State think that the meeting will do something about Norwegian relations with Russia, NATO-Russia relations and between the United States and Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e665	We have been in a form of cooling in the case of international contract work within my field, in the case of disarmament, arms control, so that if we had not been able to extend the START agreements, we would have been back to the mid-1970s by agreement. We had almost nothing else to lean on. I hope we can get so much dialogue that it may be possible to start that work again. I hope we can have so much dialogue that it can be possible to get back to meetings in the NATO-Russia Council. We're going to be clear in those areas where we've been clear, where we say we don't have cooperation now – military cooperation we don't do now because of Ukraine – and then we have to hope that we can establish communication in all channels in the future. Then the human food must be at the bottom. The liberal democratic rules we've been working for in the West since World War II must be our starting point when we go into every conversation with other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e672	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e677	I'm going to ask the Council of State about an area that he might be more comfortable with than he's been to now. The Norwegian defence industry is an important part of Norwegian defence. Industry and Defence have a long tradition of close cooperation in the development and production of materials and services for the defence sector. The defence industry is dependent on exports to survive, and the Norwegian defence is the main reference. It is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that manages the Export Control Code for Defence Matters. This may be challenging for industry, as they do not have a natural access point to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only deals with applications for export licences based on applications submitted by enterprises. Several times it has been found that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs practices the legislation very squarely and that the Ministry does not understand the relationship between the needs of the defence and the needs of the companies for export. In Message St. 17 for 2020-2021, which will be dealt with in Stortinget next week, the Progress Party will promote a proposal to transfer the management of the Export Control Code from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Defence, i.e. to the Council of State. Is this something that the Minister of Defence would like to welcome? And will he possibly take his own initiative to get this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e686	We have a very successful tripartite collaboration in the defence industry – where the defence as a customer, the defence industry as suppliers and the Defence Research Institute as a part of the knowledge work very well together. This enables us, as a small country, to deliver many successful defence industry projects – niche projects, but which are quite large and heavy. I think that's a good concept. We are also taking that forward in the message the representative mentions. We also include ways we're going to bring small businesses into this. To the question of whether I can agree to the export control regime being moved to the Ministry of Defence: No, never in the world. And that's because we're going to lose all credibility in that field. We cannot treat the international law of war on the same desktop as we are dealing with some economic considerations in terms of our defence industry. We're a little country. The ministry is close. And to that I have to say that no, I can never agree to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e694	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e699	Thanks for the answer. So Norway is going to practise a different regime than you do in other countries. That's all right. In the Defence Forum on Tuesday 23 February, we read that the Ministry of Defence has commissioned the Defence Building to transfer Tollbugata 10 to the Foundation of the Old War School for a symbolic sum. The old war school is to be transferred to the foundation for $10. It is entirely in line with the Storting decision and is good news for all those who have engaged in the matter. The challenge of the transfer is that Tollbugata 10 is ahead of extensive rehabilitation after many years of neglect and the repair is estimated at 350 million. kr. For the Foundation it is very challenging to finance the maintenance and upgrade costs themselves, and the Foundation hopes that the public will contribute to the improvement. Can the Minister of Defence say anything about how such funding can come about?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e706	The President will remind the representative that follow-up questions under the Rules of Procedure will follow up on the main issue, but will leave Frank Bakke-Jensen to decide whether to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e711	Yes, I'll see if I can find a defence-industrial input to the question. The rate that was available for the old war school building was well known to the foundation when they contacted the department and negotiated the agreement to purchase it for 10 kroner. Then they were absolutely sure that they would be able to do this. It was part of the knowledge base. It was part of the terms and conditions that existed for the agreement. If the foundation thinks they are unable to fulfil what they themselves have promised in the negotiations we have had on the building, we may need to make new assessments. There are other stakeholders with regard to the building, I have to be allowed to shoot in. In the meetings they have had with us, all of this has been clarified, and they have said that is manageable. Then I think they'll also show us that it's manageable when they move on with the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e718	The oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e732	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Siv Mossleth and Heidi Greni, respectively, to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, will be answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for District and Digitalisation, who has been removed. Question 12, from the representative of Mr Adelsten Iversen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be taken up by the representative of Mr Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum. Question 15, from the representative Nina Sandberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e750	This question, from the representative Per Espen Stoknes to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e755	Let me first take the opportunity on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA to thank the Bru for her very clear defence for Lan Marie Berg and democracy and her equally clear stand against the heat and shenanigans this weekend. There are many, especially in my party, who have greatly appreciated it. So I hope, of course, that the answers from the Council today show that she fully agrees with the MDG and the IEA as well... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e760	The President must only remind the representative that the representative must read out the question addressed to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e765	So to the question: ‘In the perspective communication, the government claimed that more oil and gas exploration does not challenge climate objectives. The IEA report Net Zero by 2050 shows that this is wrong. The report confirms what the MDG has said for many years: if we are to reach the 1.5-degree target, we must stop looking for more oil and gas. For Norway, cancelling the 25th concession round and all future concession rounds is involved. Will the Prime Minister conduct a petroleum policy in line with the IEA recommendations, or does she still believe that more oil and gas leakage is not challenging climate objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e774	The IEA report shows that the world has a formidable task ahead of it in order to achieve its climate objectives. Norway is pursuing an ambitious climate policy in line with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. With a trend in global emissions in line with the Paris Agreement temperature target, Norway will also be a low-emission society in all sectors by 2050. The IEA Roadmap has received considerable attention and renewed debate on the framework conditions for petroleum activities. The road map shows that there is a need for a comprehensive, coordinated and rapid conversion of how we produce, transport and use energy worldwide in order to achieve an energy system with net zero emissions. It assumes major changes in human consumption and behaviour. The Roadmap also provides a basis for comprehensive technology development in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. Major parts of the scenario's emission reductions after 2030 are achieved through technologies that have not yet been developed. It is important to point out that the IEA scenarios are not intended as a forecast for energy development but as a possible path to net zero emissions by 2050. The report shows that there are many uncertainties on such a road. Other scenarios, which are designed to be in line with the 1.5 degree target, e.g. those of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provide other results — depending on the assumptions made. Also in the new IEA scenario, oil and gas are needed in 2050, although it will be significantly less than today. When the report points out that there will be no need to invest in new oil and gas fields, it is mainly due to the fact that if developments in this scenario are implemented, the IEA believes that fossil energy demand will decline so dramatically that it is not necessary to invest in new generation capacity. The report points out that low-emission petroleum production can be a competitive advantage. We are already producing our oil and gas efficiently and with low emissions, and companies are working to cut emissions in production even more. That is something we get to do, among other things. through the strict instruments to which the industry is subject. The IEA scenario is based on market principles, and so it is demand that governs the development of energy markets. I maintain that Norway will continue to develop skills and jobs and create values nationally as long as there is demand for resources from Norwegian Socket. This will take place within the framework of our national climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e793	I hear the Council of State point out that there is demand that will dominate that development and, if necessary, allow the IEA scenario. But let me stress that the IEA does not say that only Norway is going to stop looking for more oil and gas. The IEA says that all countries must stop looking for more oil and gas. That Norway will then continue to pump oil because other countries may not listen to the IEA and do not tighten enough on demand, I believe is liability powdering. On 19 November last year, the government announced a 25th concession round. Would the government and the government do the same today if the IEA's crystal clear recommendation to stop looking for more oil and gas had been known before the 25th concession round was lit out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e800	I would like to stress that the IEA report does not make recommendations on policies for individual countries. It's just drawing up a global picture, which the representative is also in on, and each country has to do its own. All countries have different assumptions for achieving the target. If all the countries in the world, which are linked to the Paris Agreement, follow up the Paris Agreement, we will also achieve the goal. That is what needs to be done globally in order for us to succeed. It is also the case that the IEA report does not point to the end of searching as a measure to get us there. It points to the end of searching as a consequence if you succeed in the future. But it will also be demand driven – it is important to bring it with you. I believe that all the time that will be needed is too early now to say that Norwegian oil and gas will not be competitive or could have a part in that market – after all, we also produce lower emissions than others. It might happen in the future that it would be quite wise to have the production that is actually done with zero emissions. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e811	I noticed yesterday what the State Council of the Right Government wrote from 2013 to 2018, Vidar Helgesen: ‘If you are not affected by this message from this sender, you are away from rescue. #climate risk’» He refers to the Financial Times’ analysis and review and how all countries have to stop developing new projects to reach the 1.5 degree target. The Council of State and the OED shall provide an energy message before the summer. Now that the IEA report is out, will the Council of State ensure that the Energy Communication reflects this new knowledge, or is it such that the Energy Communication is "away from rescue" in the Right-Man's vocabulary?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e821	I can start by saying that now that report just came, and the message will be presented soon. Yes, we aim to mention the report in the message, but, of course, the message is almost finished, so it won't be a huge analysis. But I believe we should take this report very seriously – just as we do with other reports that say something about what is actually needed to get to the transition we depend on, whether there are reports from the United Nations Climate Panel, or whether it is the IEA, which is also a heavy voice we should listen to. But there are also many other things in the report that I think are interesting, and that we have to take over, among other things. the growth required in renewables to get there. That's what's going to lead to if you don't use fossil energy, because you've got that growth in renewables. If not, the need for fossil energy will also be greater. The pressure to develop more wind and solar energy, including conflict-filled and difficult issues, must also be addressed here in Norway and not only reduce it to a debate on oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e831	‘Financial Minister Jan Tore Sanner has stated that the greatest difference between people in Norway is between those who have a job and those who do not. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that on average they serve 3.7 times more than the unemployed, while the 1 percent richest on average make 8.6 times as much as the rest of the population. By wealth, the difference is even larger. In view of this, would the Council of State agree that the largest economic difference in Norway is between the highest richest percentage and the rest of the population?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e838	Norway is a country with low income inequalities. In the last 30 years, Norwegian households have experienced a strong growth in income. Our high standard of living is due to high productivity, competent workers and the fact that many are at work. Wages and salaries are more evenly distributed than other income. The fact that many are at work helps to keep income inequality in Norway down. The government is working for Norway to be a society with small differences and with opportunities for all. We have to prevent outsiders and that the inequality becomes too big. This is where work, education and integration are among the most important tasks. Disparity goes along several dimensions. In the representative's reference to an opinion from me, I have emphasised the economic and social importance of the work relationship for the individual. Participation in working life provides individuals with an independent economic basis and opportunities for self-realisation and social inclusion. Furthermore, work is an important arena for integration and provides better learning of languages and common culture. Persons who are out of work have significantly lower incomes than those who are in work. Moreover, income from social benefits often depends on previous labour income, and participation in the labour market also provides better protection of unemployment, sickness and any disability. The consequences of being out of work may be extensive and may increase with the duration of unemployment. Not being at work is an important cause of persistent low incomes and can impair the living conditions, health and quality of life of individuals. That's why the government's main act is to prevent great inequality in society, among other things. about ensuring that students complete secondary education and that we are filled with skills through work better integration mental health and drug care measures targeted efforts to qualify and include those who have fallen out of work facilitating the creation of more jobs Finally, let me stress that the Korona crisis has gone wrong. We must avoid more people falling out of work permanently as a result of the crisis. For this reason, measures for the building of competences, mental health and inclusion are essential. This applies both in the short and longer term, so that Norway can continue to be a country with small differences and opportunities for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e875	I would like to thank you for many words, but perhaps not answers to what was the question: if not the greatest economic difference in Norway is between the highest richest percentage and the rest of the population. So Sanner's party leader said to the evening post recently that she wasn't so concerned about fighting wealth, and it might sum up right's view of inequality precisely: let the rich get richer, then the rest get fight about what's left. After eight years of civil government, one percent of the population on the top has increased its share of total wealth from 18 pst. to 23 pst. In dollars and cents, they each increased their wealth by $31 million. kr. Is there really any limit to how much power and wealth can be concentrated on a few hands, and where does that limit go? When the top percent has a quarter of all the income, half, or two thirds – is there a limit to the right when it comes to concentration of economic power on few hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e882	The question was based on a quote from me, about the difference between people in Norway. There I record that the representative of Moxnes is one-sided in emphasising income differences. I'm concerned about the importance of work, both socially and economically for the individual, and I'm concerned that too many people stay out of work for too long. That's why I think inclusion, helping people back to work, is the most important thing to ensure a society with little differences. So I agree that power concentration is a problem, whether it's on the government's hand or on private hands. That's why I'm concerned with the spread of power and that we're going to facilitate a strong and diverse private ownership – not power concentration, but power spread.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e889	In that case, this should worry Sanner – the concentration of ever more power and wealth on ever fewer hands. What I think is most alarming in the Right World is that wealth and poverty are not linked, but of course it is. When the richest top percent has a pay of over 2 million. kr and receives almost 10 pst. of the whole nation's income each year, the money that could have gone elsewhere has gone to something else. They would hardly notice the tax increase that is needed, on their million incomes, to finance free dental care or increase child welfare for all of us. But if that's how Sanner is concerned about the difference between people with and without work, then why does the government propose to cut the day-to-day money that the unemployed get from 1 October, when that grip will actually increase that difference even more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e894	I believe that the arrangements we had for pre-crisis income protection will continue even after the crisis. As we can reopen society, the activity gets up and people come back to work, I believe that the arrangements we had before the crisis will also stand during the fall. According to our forecasts, we will be back at low levels in unemployment during 2022. But I'm worried about some groups of the unemployed. In particular, those who initially had little education, low wages, weak links with the labour market. That is why I am concerned that we need to take targeted action to help those groups into the labour market. It also includes people with a migrant background, who are now given extended opportunities in the introduction programme, which will increase their chances of entering a job. It will also help us to maintain small differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e902	‘The East Police District State Attorney’s inspection report dated 15 December states: ‘The development of crime is described in such a way that criminal environments and backers can establish themselves in the district without being investigated by the GDE and can only risk the attention of the police when it has become so ‘large’ that they may be investigated by the FEE.’ [[focusing on couriers and, where appropriate, accompanying cars at border crossings]] Why does the police not prevent criminal environments and backers from establishing themselves in Eastern police districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e909	The representative quotes a small part of a very thorough report on 24 pages. But it gives cause for concern. If we read this in connection with other information in the report, there's enough reason to believe that the picture is more nuanced. The specific reference concerns the case distribution between the different geographical holdings, abbreviated as GDE, and the joint investigation and prosecution unit, abbreviated as FFE. The problem is related to drug offences, particularly the introduction of drugs with a penalty limit of up to 10 years. The idea behind the establishment of the FFE is to pool responsibility for investigating the most serious criminal cases and to establish sound professional environments in the individual police districts. Furthermore, units shall have the resources to be flexible enough to move resources in an easy way to the areas that need it. In recent years, the State budget and the letter of allocation have provided clear guidance and appropriations to increase the efforts of the Higher Public Prosecutor’s Office to improve the achievement of targets in the fight against crime by the police. I see the report as a positive outcome of this effort. Indeed, it is a key point of the leadership that the type of challenges raised in the question is revealed in such a way that they can be followed up and solved. Follow-up is a topic between the Higher Public Prosecutor’s Office and the police departments’ top management. Together, they need to find good measures to address the problems identified by the report. I can also mention that in the budget agreement for the state budget for 2021, the parties agreed to strengthen their efforts to combat juvenile and gang crime by 60 million. kr. Eastern police districts are allocated 20 million. kr of precisely these means of combating central agents. There are, therefore, ways of responding to the challenges identified in this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e920	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and note that the Council of State also believes that there is cause for concern. I am not less concerned when I read on in the report, where it also says: ‘However, we note in particular that the lawyers point out that the portfolio is so large that they do not have an overview of the issues. In other words, they describe a situation in which they experience lack of control.’ When it becomes clear that criminal networks and backers are not being investigated, and that police lawyers feel that they are not in control of the cases actually being set up – how is that possible, and what will the Minister of Justice do about action to improve that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e930	What we want to do is to increase the possibility of the police prioritizing their efforts in this area. We're simply doing that by increasing resource use. We have increased the police budget – the police budget. And then, over the last few years, we've also increased the prosecution budget. There has been a sharp increase in the last two years and, for East police districts, there has also been an additional allocation in addition to the general, now revised national budget, which is likely to be dealt with soon by the Stortinget. Of course, it'll take some time before you see the results of this. But increasing staffing allows you to go into matters thoroughly, deal with several cases and spend less time on matters. At the same time, I have to say that these are big and complicated things. That is why the efforts of the police, the prosecution authority and the senior prosecution authority must be strengthened, and that is what we have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e937	This is not the first time we hear that the situation in the police needs to be improved and strengthened. Last May the government sent out a press release where, among other things, the Minister of Justice. announced fresh means of recruiting more lawyers. Last August we read that 30 new police lawyers were to be hired. The Directorate for Economic Management’s evaluation of the near-police reform that came last week states that the number of legal works has increased by only two in 2020. An additional appropriation of 13 million. So kr ended up with two new annual works. In 2019, a General Judicial Committee decided that the budget of police lawyers should be separated into a separate budget line. The government has now had three opportunities to do so – the revised national budget for 2020, the State budget for 2021 and the revised budget for 2021. Still, it does not appear that the government is willing to separate the police lawyers as its own budget line. Why is it so difficult for the government to follow this decision from the Storting and ensure that police lawyers have their own budget line?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e944	There were many questions here, and everyone I have answered up to several times in the past, but it is possible that the representative has not received them. It is such that I have warned that in the state budget submitted until the fall, we will present the prosecution budget in a suitable manner, so we will deliver it – completely in the way that I have notified it all along. As far as the increase in the budget is concerned, there has been an effort on the part of the police, prosecution authorities and the higher prosecution authority, in fact in addition to the court, because everything is linked here. In the revised budget last year, an additional appropriation corresponding to 30 posts was granted. So it is that I have not conducted how those funds were to be distributed – if they were to be allocated to overtime use or to new jobs – because it was a one-off grant. I have left this behind and have confidence that the police officers will make an assessment of it. I have also – as I have said many times – been clear that when there is a fixed allocation, as it was this year, the positions should be filled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e956	‘In the East and South East police districts, police response time requirements are 22 and 24 minutes respectively to places with less than 2000 inhabitants. In North Norway the corresponding requirements are 42 and 43 minutes respectively. What are the reasons for this emergency assessment that people in places such as Stokmarknes, Lavangen, Skjervøy, Loppa and Båtsfjord have to expect to wait about twice as long as the police compared to places of similar size in Telemark, Buskerud and Østfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e963	As the representative is sure to know, this government has introduced response time requirements at national level differentiated into three urban categories, and then the Police Directorate is setting response time requirements for the individual police districts. The 2020 results show that the police for the first time since we introduced this comply with national requirements, but there are variations between police districts. Therefore, it is good that work is being done to improve the response time in the police. We will constantly assess whether the resources are distributed correctly and the preparedness is good enough, but I would like to stress that it is the police chief who knows the needs of his district best and who has to make that assessment. I have several times now, and I'd like to do it again, had the pleasure of quoting the Central Party's draft new major election program, where it says: ‘The Central Party will give greater responsibility and influence to the police and local police in determining staffing and resource allocations based on local analyses and priorities.’ As Minister of Justice and Security, I am committed to ensuring that the police have the best conditions to do the best possible job, while at the same time the police are responsible for the police's evaluations and duties. During 2020, geographical holdings – i.e. those handling guards and emergency services – have had a significantly higher share of the increase in police year-on-year than the functional units at police district level. 76 pst. the increase in the year 2020 has led to the strengthening of the geographical holdings. In the budget for 2021, the budget for the police was increased by about 578 million. kr. The increase is mainly aimed at strengthening police geographical holdings and will increase local presence and police force where people live and move.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e981	I think it is good that the government takes time to read the proposal for a batch program that the centre party will deal with in 14 days. It says a lot of good things. It also says that we should maintain and establish a number of volunteer offices. Both the current state council and her predecessors have said for years that they are working to improve the response time. The last time Nordland, Troms and Finnmark met their respective response time requirements was in 2016, i.e. before the government closed down a number of Länsmann offices and centralised the remaining police into the largest cities in North Norway. Can the Council of State say what she and the government are doing specifically to improve the response time, and especially the response time in North Norway, and when can we expect the results of this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e990	I am very happy that the Center Party is now too responsive. It was not something you were concerned about when you were in government. Now you are. That's good. Then I've read the Center Party program and I'm very excited to see the plan, not just for more officers' offices, but for more lawyers, more police officers, more cars, more boats and more helicopters – more resources at all levels. It's going to be an exciting year and an exciting campaign. What we have done in concrete terms is to introduce response time requirements. We follow it up through our dialogue with the police directorate. So each district makes its police professional assessment of how this is followed up. So the police are moving out more often, and they're doing it in a shorter time. I'm very happy that we met the requirements nationally, and then I've been very clear that we're also going to reach them locally. It is targeted, based on the fact that more resources have actually been allocated through government budgets and revised budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e999	I notice that the Council of State is hiding behind the national results, but we know that the response time is not being met in the districts, especially in North Norway. Today there is an ambulance response time of 12 minutes in the cities and 25 minutes in the districts. This applies to 90 pst. of the cases. For the police, there is a national requirement in 80 pst. of the cases, in addition to different requirements for each police district, to which the Council of State has been subject, and for each category. Has the Council of State, which is the Minister of Emergency Response, any ambition to co-operate with the police and ambulance response time, or is it okay for the Council of State that someone, such as the police and the ambulance, is doing well. We have to wait for the police in North Norway for 45 minutes, while in the East we only have to wait 20 minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1006	I am very happy that we have implemented these response requirements. And then, obviously in contrast to the representative, I have full confidence in the job done outside, and the assessments made. It's not just that you have different geographic location and different population, you also have a completely different risk profile for events, both accidents and crime. You have that knowledge locally, and you work locally. We have set response time, as opposed to the previous government. We don't plan to change it now, but if we get recommendations related to it, we'll of course do a new assessment. The police are moving out more often and faster than before. That's very good. The goal must be that all districts reach the response times that have been said to be expected by the police and that are the goal achievement we measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1018	My question is to the Minister of Justice and Security: ‘In 2015, during Gemini practice, the response team spent 28 hours reaching an object off the coast of Finnmark according to the Nevermer.no website. The police’s national response capabilities are still dependent on scheduled flights when carrying many people and necessary equipment to, for example, North Norway. Has the response time for the national response capacities of North Norway improved since 2015?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1027	Norway is a country with large distances and demanding geography. This is why the government has strengthened preparedness across the country, and more measures have been implemented to improve Northern preparedness than it was in 2015. We have prioritised basic preparedness by training and employing more police officers throughout the country, and we have achieved the goal of two officials per thousand inhabitants. The amount of training provided by police response personnel has increased, as has the number of response personnel with more specialised tasks. We have also ensured that response staff in police districts now have every year the opportunity to train at the new National Emergency Response Centre and thus together with the national response resources. The transfer of experience from our most specialised intervention units to regional response personnel will have a good impact on preparedness throughout Norway. All police districts have therefore well trained personnel to deal with severe incidents, even pending assistance from national response capacities. I would also like to mention the agreement between Airlift and the Police Directorate, which ensures police in Northern Ireland, Troms and Finnmark access to helicopter assistance. The helicopter is available from Tromsø airport 24 hours a day, with 1 hour response time, all year round. The representative refers to the execution of the defence exercise Gemini. The most important thing about exercises is to gain experience and learn, and several measures have been taken to expand and strengthen cooperation between the police and the defence. An annual national counter-terrorism exercise, exercise Nordlys, has been established, which the police are responsible for leading and implementing with the support of the Defence. In 2017, the new Aid Guidelines came into force. It ensures that decisions on assistance from the Defence to the police can be taken as quickly as possible in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1040	What is often the response resources locally are the police patrols. The Council of State has been involved in the exercise of Northern Lights. The Directorate for Financial Management’s evaluation report on the so-called near-police reform came last week. It states that there have been no more patrols as a result of the reform. As of May 2021 it is therefore nine places in the North that have a crew that is theoretically large enough for a 24-hour patrol. We have twelve police stations with zero to two employees in each location. So it's the robust police after almost eight years with justice ministers from the Right and the Advance Party. In the Western estuary, in large parts of the day, there is one patrol located in Blackland, which is to cover an area from the Andes to the Løding. It's the same as if one patrol on the south should be prepared for an area extending from Oslo to Porsgrund. Then my question is: has there been better police preparedness in Northern Ireland by laying down ten officers' offices and removing the crew from half of the police stations that are left?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1047	I answer this question every week, several times a week, both in writing and orally. I understand that the Center Party has great pleasure in asking the same question, even though they are not interested in listening to the answer. The answer to the question of preparedness has improved is yes. I can actually go there. I have outsourced how we have strengthened preparedness at all stages of the police force, so that today we have a completely different preparedness than we had when the Senter party put in government. We took the Gjørv report seriously. We took the police analysis seriously. We've strengthened the police at all levels – with police forces, with police lawyers, with police boats, with police helicopters, with a national emergency centre. The response rate and national resources have been strengthened. There are more people. They're training more. They can do an even better job. This applies throughout the country, also in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1052	The reality of the Central Party is clearly in agreement with the leader of the Joint Association of Police, Sigve Bolstad, in his view of the reform. In the magazine Vesterålen on 21 May he said: ‘It is widely agreed that the reform has not brought the police closer to the population. This was one of the most important promises when the reform was introduced. The solution is a good example of the fact that the police are being pulled further and further away from the public they are set to provide service for." In DFØ’s evaluation, which I pointed out, it also appears that the police do not respond to 30 pst. of the phone calls from people. There may be questions and enquiries from people about everything from passports, weapons requests, permits and, in particular, tips to the police, which may have a bearing on preparedness. The aim of the reform was a close-up police force that was operational, visible and accessible. I believe the Council of State believes that a combination of a police force that, according to the Police Union, is increasingly being pulled away from people who, according to DFØ, do not take the phone in 30 pst. of the cases, and which have hardly opened hours outside the head offices, have led to a more visible, accessible and operational police force?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1062	If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that the reality of the Center Party and the government is never going to be coincident. It is interesting that the representative mentions the Police Joint Union. I don't know if it's happened before in Norwegian history, but until Christmas the government and the prime minister got cake from the Police Joint Association for the bet on the police. I think that's quite historic. And if you ask the League of Police, I think they're very clear that they're very much in favour of police reform, as opposed to the Central Party. The police are receiving more and more 112 calls. They're also moving out faster. In 2019 there were 735 000 phone calls to 112, while the number of 110 calls was 195 130. Enquiries to the police increased even more in 2020, when there were over 753,000 emergency calls. During the corresponding period, the number of emergency missions to the police increased from 20,000 to 21,000. I think the numbers speak for themselves. You're working more, you're moving out faster, you're answering multiple phone calls, and you're doing it faster than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1074	‘The areas Stovner and Lørenskog have almost grown together. They're in two different police districts. Both areas face many of the same challenges, including crime and exclusion. At Stovner Police Station there are 269 employees, while the police in the neighbouring municipality of Lørenskog have had a significant reduction in staff in recent years. Why is local police in Lørenskog built down through the ‘close police reform’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1081	As a former municipal minister, it might be interesting to recommend places that grow together, to join together. They haven't, and neither is the Center Party. This week, too, representatives from the Central Party have used office addresses as a basis for their questions about police resources. So let me be clear again that the police are working across municipal borders, and the job is done mainly outside the office, in contact with the population. Thus, the manning development of a single county office or service area alone is not an expression of the police services provided. The representative, Gielsvik, refers to a reduction of local police through police reform. That's not right. The police are strongly present for the public. The government has been giving priority to the police and the police districts over many years. Since we joined, the police's operating budget has increased by approx. 4.2 B.C.E. kr, the target of a police coverage of two police trained per thousand inhabitants has been met, and the number of annual police work has increased by more than 3,600. The increase in staff has benefited all the districts. The government also has over several years of work to prevent children and young people from being recruited into nightlife settings and more serious crime. In the revised national budget for 2021, the government continued its investment of 37 million. kr for police operations in vulnerable areas as part of the cooperation between the State and the municipality on territorial initiatives in Oslo. In the budget agreement for the State budget for 2021, the parties agreed to strengthen their commitment to youth and re-crime by 60 million. kr. Eastern police districts have been allocated 20 million. kr of these means of combating central agents, while Oslo Police District has received 11 million. kr. The revised budget for 2020 also allocated 25 million. kr temporarily to combat recriminalism in the Oslo area. As you know, the chief of police is responsible for allocating resources in their own districts. We have to trust that police officers know best how to distribute resources internally in the police. In a police district, it must be the police chief, who knows the local conditions, who must be responsible for allocating resources to the various departments. I trust that they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1094	As a result of the police reform, a region with nearly 300,000 inhabitants was closed down in Rome. Of the rest of the loner offices, several of them were clipped and emptied for content. For example, in Nittedal, that's the case in Nes and the Bear's Serpent. In Lørenskog, which I specifically ask a question about in this context, a municipality with approx. 40,000 inhabitants, who had a well-functioning bilgeman’s office with approx. 50 officials at most, as of today there is almost nothing left by the Länsmannskontoret. It is open three days a week – only to receive notifications. What the local population sees is that there has become a less-needed police force, it goes beyond prevention, and it also goes beyond work related to, for example, juvenile delinquency. Why has one not provided to strengthen the local police?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1101	I almost don't know what to say. So you don't listen to what I'm saying. The constant claims of the representative and the Central Party are that everything was better before. No, it wasn't. I'm counting on the representative to read the Djørv report. I expect you've read the police analysis. I expect you've got actual relationships explained. Now that we have more people, they're training more, they've got better resources, cars, boats, helicopters, that's also doing a better job. We have better police preparedness in Norway, even in the area the representative is talking about, than we have ever had. It's not like we can turn the clock back. That's how more policemen do an even better job. They're training more. They're moving out more. Then it's not about office addresses, it's not about who's connected to a single office, it's about what job is done. I am absolutely sure that for those children who are being assaulted, and where today's exceedance is being taken, there is an important difference from the past, as it might have been theft of winnings and theft of bicycles.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1106	For people in Lørenskog, there has not been any more resources for the police, there has not been any more police presence, such as the police. the municipality has recorded, as the local population has recorded, and the internal votes of the police have also been recorded. In the past, a well-functioning bilgeman’s office, mostly with approx. 50 employees. By decision in Stortinget, one has said that one should strengthen the remaining Länsmannskontoret. As of today, there are almost no people in the Lørenskog Länsmannskontoret, a municipality with almost 40,000 inhabitants, such as the city of Lørenskog. the East-West terminal, the major postal terminal, has major youth crime challenges, recriminalism. One has weakened the local police present. The same thing sees a second place in Rome. It doesn't help that the Council of State is talking about speech. One has to go in and see the concrete reality that people experience. Why is one not willing to turn around and strengthen the local police in a municipality like Lørenskog?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1113	I fully agree that you have to base your reality. The Central Party has now, no matter what police districts you point to, pointed out that there are fewer people, there are less resources, there is less preparedness. So that's not true. The situation is on the contrary that there are more resources, there are more people, and that is better preparedness – in absolutely the whole country. So we can always do the job even better, and we have the goal to do that. Nor is it true that the geographical units are not strengthened. The police report is just saying that 70 pst. the resources have been allocated to the GDEs last year. Now we've hired 400 additional policemen, who are just going to be assigned to the GDEs. So that's actually not right, what the representative says. It's the geographical units that are strengthened. It's been a goal for us, it's been a goal for the Storting, and we fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1123	«I am constantly receiving enquiries from people with type 2 diabetes who do not have access to new sensor technology despite having difficult controllable diabetes. The Council of State has repeatedly referred to the Ministry's objective to submit proposals for amendments to the legislation on the financing of medical consumables and foodstuffs by reason of the prescription of Sections 5 and 6 of the Blue Regulation during the course of 2021. When we know how well these work for type 1 diabetes patients, why should the government have a hearing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1130	In my answer to written questions from the representative Haukeland Liadal of March this year, I state that the ongoing regulatory work involves a major review of the entire blueprint scheme for medical consumables and food and other neighbouring financial instruments. Although this includes equipment and consumables for diabetes, the main purpose of the work is to look at the whole scheme as a whole. Thus, it is not envisaged to provide a separate consultation on the provision of public funding of sensor technology for the measurement of glucose values, but to consult a new regulatory framework to clarify the criteria for the allocation of financial responsibility, to introduce priority criteria and to regulate inclusion and changes in the product and price lists of Helfo. The aim of this work is to ensure that users’ rights are in line with current non-discrimination policy and treatment practices, which are transparent and predictable for all actors, while providing for active governance and necessary cost control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1139	I thank you for your answer. What happens today, however, is that there are different practices in different parts of the country. In some places it is covered by the municipality. Elsewhere, a few patients in the Type 2 category are referred to specialist healthcare. I am glad that the Council of State in the previous answer says that he wants equivalent services, but that is not happening today. Should access to new technology be determined by where a boron?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1146	No, and that is why there is a need for a general review of this legislation so that it is more up-to-date and more consistent with medical developments. That is why we have started this great and extensive work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1151	I thank you for your answer, and I thank you for your recognition by the Council of State that this can actually happen today. That's why I in the Questionnaire today choose to follow this up. We get feedback that it actually depends on where you live. In several countries, one set — and we also see that in Norway — of type 2 diabetes patients is accompanied by some stigmas. I allow myself to ask the Council of State if he will be involved in the present work and look at the possibility of a more equal treatment for type 1 and type 2 patients, and that one might look at diabetic patients in a future race as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1158	There are two different diseases, so it's important that there is also a difference. So there would have to be a difference in the follow-up. Type 2 diabetes is a very common disease where it has to be expected, for example. determined doctors can handle very much. But we have a common diabetes plan and strategy related to diabetes, because of course this is seen in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1172	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen is not present, so the question is therefore deleted. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1182	This question, from the representative Siv Mossleth to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, is answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for District and Digitalisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1187	‘The last year has shown us how important broadband is. Children have to do schoolwork from home, and more people have to work from home. Unfortunately, we have also revealed a fundamental injustice in our country, we have seen more clearly than ever that those living in pig-grown strips have lower broadband coverage than those living in central areas. Does the Government consider that the government has done enough to ensure broadband expansion throughout Norway, when we see repeated examples of how poor broadband coverage is still in large parts of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1194	I thank the representative for the question. Broadband, mobile services and the Internet are fundamental in our daily lives for value creation, for jobs and for good public services, and the pandemic has shown how important this infrastructure is. Norway is now very well equipped with good mobile and broadband networks. Almost 100 pst. basic broadband is offered by households in Norway. This means that we can use public portals, trade on the Internet, use online banking, read online newspapers and send e-mails, but the speed of broadband is increasing. The 100 Mbit/s high-speed band coverage is greater than 90 pst. of the households of the country, as a whole. Let's remember that it was considered to be a very ambitious goal when the Digital Agenda was adopted in 2016. Now we've achieved our 2020 target. When this government took over in 2013, only 63 pst. of Norwegian households offering high-speed broadband. Norway, together with Denmark, ranked at the highest level in the EU digitisation index, DESI, in 2020 on mobile and broadband access. In the new magnification message about the digital core wall, the government sets the goal of 100 pst. of the households and establishments in Norway shall offer broadband of at least 100 Mbit/s by the end of 2025. This objective is ambitious and will contribute to significantly reduced differences between cities and countries. In order to achieve this objective, public efforts are needed. This government has allocated more to broadband development in the districts than the red-green government did. The government will continue the state grants to broadband, which are now managed by the county municipalities. In addition to ordinary grants, in February, the government launched a historic district package for the development of high-speed wireless broadband. In this package, the winners of the 5G auction, conducted over the summer, will be able to reduce the total price to 560 million. kr, against rapidly expanding 100 Mbit/s wireless broadband for at least equivalent amounts in areas missing such an offer. This package will benefit very many households and businesses in the most widespread areas of the country. A large part of the country is built out of the market even under normal commercial conditions. The market-based model has been stable for more than 20 years and has produced very good results. Private sector investment in Norwegian econom nets was at a record 12.6 billion. SEK in 2020, up to 1.3 billion. kr from the previous year. I believe that this government has done a great deal for broadband in Norway, but we are not stopping here. We want everyone to have a high-speed broadband offer, and we have put forward an ambitious timetable to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1211	The minister must stop seeing the whole country as a whole. If the whole country is to be used, we need to take local considerations and adapt services to the needs. For example, only 1 pst. by the inhabitants of the western municipalities, high-speed networks, and this is too bad. In municipal government meetings that took place at Teams, there were major problems. The network was not good enough to hold local government meetings. The centre party has regularly proposed to grant more money for broadband deployment, and then the government's response has been that it has not been necessary because the market takes responsibility for broadband deployment. When we continue to see the scale of the challenges of broadband coverage around the country, does the Council of State agree that the state must take greater responsibility for broadband deployment so that we can give all its citizens access to high-speed broadband?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1218	: When the goal is at 100 pst. Of the households in Norway, high-speed broadband will be available by 2025, I think it is very appropriate to see the country as a whole. That means that everyone, regardless of where they live, should have the opportunity to work and do business, live and live, even on the Internet, throughout the country. That must be good. Yes, we've thought that the market here is doing an important job. When it was invested 12.6 billion. in 2020, it shows that commercial operators are expanding. But we see that it is necessary for the state to set up in those areas where it is not profitable. Through direct State grants, but also through this innovative package related to the 5G auction, the government is now making a major effort to raise the areas that are most in need, precisely in order to achieve the goal of access to high-speed broadband by 2025 for all residents, all households in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1225	100 pst. of course, high-speed broadband is good, and that is the goal of the Centre Party. But then we can't continue the argument that shows that so many have and so many have. I often stay in places in Northern Ireland that do not have mobile coverage, broadband coverage does not exist, but you have network access via the old copper line that is to be phased out. There are no plans from Telenor to expand these white spots for mobile phones. I think it's very difficult to imagine how the government rates across the country, because it's just speech, we don't see the practice of this. When there is no mobile coverage and the network is only available with the old copper network, when do you get high-speed broadband and 5G on such white spots?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1232	The answer to that I have already given twice, but I would like to give it again: 2025. By 2025, all households shall be offered high-speed broadband with more than 100 Mbit/s, which is the government’s objective. It's ambitious, but I think we should get it done. I can't see that the Center Party has any better plan to do it. There has been a formidable development since 2013 in this area. That's good, but it's because there's been a wise policy, a policy that, in itself, the Center Party, when they put themselves in government, also backed up under, but which they in opposition need to show that they disagree. I don't hear any answers on how the Center Party is going to achieve the target of 100 pst. other than spending more of taxpayers' money. This, if we look at Sweden, doesn't necessarily give us more broadband expansion. There is also an important lesson in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1243	This question, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for District and Digitalisation, is answered by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation on behalf of the Minister for District and Digitalisation, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1248	‘Since the right-wing government took over in 2013, more than 21000 new State jobs have been established. Unfortunately, we see time and again that they end up in Oslo or in the other big cities. The government's own figures show that South Trondelag has received 3,201 of them, of whom 3,191 have gone to Trondheim. Middle Gauldal and Melhus, on the other hand, have lost over 100 jobs in these 7 years. The inner Fosen has lost 41 and Selbu 22, and this is just some of the examples. Do the Council of State agree that these developments in state jobs are centralising?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1255	It is not possible to answer yes to that question, based on the selective use of individual municipalities as examples. The government is committed to facilitating development and growth throughout Norway. We want there to be competence jobs across the country and that there should be a good regional distribution of government jobs. So it's true that government employment has increased somewhere, and it's true that the other places are lower. However, the changing nature of the public sector to meet current and future needs is desirable. Technology and digitisation contribute to the digital provision of many services now. Then travel distances mean less, and users no longer need to meet physically in an office. Examples of this are the Treasury of Loans, the Treasury and Nav. In addition, in our period of government, we have also carried out other absolutely necessary structural reforms. I can mention here the police reform, which ensures an operational, visible and accessible police force with the capacity to prevent, investigate and prosecute criminal acts, thereby providing citizens with greater security. The reform has provided wider professional environments and more robust police districts and operational centres. All police districts have been strengthened and we will further strengthen staffing in the districts in the years to come. The hospital, university and higher education sectors are other examples of areas where government employment has increased in recent years. We believe that this has been an important and proper development, where we can prioritise the use of people and resources for better service provision. At the same time, we know that state employment can help to strengthen the labour market and create opportunities for both people and local communities. Changes implemented should provide better and more efficient services, but in parallel, we need to make sure that this does not have an adverse impact on individual areas. In 2019, the government strengthened the guidelines for the location of state jobs. Attention shall be paid to localisation in regional centres, where establishments have the greatest potential to contribute to the local provision of jobs. Throughout our period, the government has been pursuing an active localisation policy. There are about 1 240 jobs newly created or moved out of the Oslo area between 2013 and 2020. Finally, I would like to mention that the exemption of activities in general government, changes in organisational forms and transfers of responsibility may affect statistics. Organisational changes in the railway sector are an example of this. Employees of the former railway station, who are now working in Bane NOR, will, for example: remain defined as part of the State sector, while employed in what is now State limited liability companies, for example. Track operation AS, will be registered with the private sector. The transfer of the county road administration from the country to the county municipalities from 2020 will be a similar example where jobs shift space in the statistics, but not necessarily disappear in real life. That's why it's worth taking it with you when you're going to evaluate the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1276	I thank you for your answer. It's a shame the district minister didn't have the opportunity to meet here today. My question went on with workplaces and the effects of it. Both expert committees set up by the government itself point out that a diverse labour market is an important premise to reverse centralisation and ensure that more people choose to live in the districts. The smallest municipalities have lost jobs a bit by bit, and when a municipality loses a job, it also has major ring-effects. There's trouble recruiting skills for both the local and private sectors, because job no. 2, to the spouse, it becomes impossible to recover. So the move is a major weakening of many communities. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State have any intention of turning the large-scale centralisation we have seen around the country? And are there any concrete measures going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1283	We are on the right track to reverse that trend, after a strong centralisation when the red-greens were in government. We see, for example: the number of persons employed in the departments has decreased. The growth of employees in the state, both in the departments and in the central Directorates, is now significantly lower than under the red-green government, too. And we're busy building up under attractive communities. Before the summer, the Minister for District and Digitalisation and I will present a new strategy, among other things. for attractive small towns and towns. This strategy is about diverse workplace structures, but also about how we can create attractive communities that make more young people stay, that they come back, and that more people move from central districts to small communities. This is an exciting work. We depend entirely on the attractiveness of living, working and living throughout the country if we are to succeed as a nation. That's why this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1290	An example from the further north of the country is the closure of reception for lone minors in Salangen. There is no disagreement that Salangen has the best competence, they have the best interdisciplinary cooperation and the best results in getting young people into education and work. The government itself has used the Salang as an example of best practice in this area several times. Of course, capacity needs to be reduced in line with the need, but what is incomprehensible to me is that when one reception is to be maintained, the government puts down in the Salang and moves the offer to the Central East. It is the Ministry of Local Affairs of the District Minister who has the overall responsibility to assess the impact of structural changes in state activities. What was the argument for this centralization? And how has the government assessed this in a district policy perspective?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1295	I'm not going to go into single examples, but I think it's very important that we manage to create jobs across the country, that we facilitate good and attractive communities, which enable both the private and the public sector in smaller societies to attract the skills they need. I am very pleased that the representative points to this challenge. We know that e.g. 90 pst. of the most diversified municipalities report that they are unable to obtain the skills they need to fill important jobs. 67 pst. by the enterprises in the same municipalities reporting the same. This is a huge challenge. That's one of the reasons why we've thought it was right to think about municipal structure too. But there the Center Party has thought that the preferred municipal structure is the one that saw the light of day in the mid-1960s. I believe that we now need to look forward to finding good solutions to the challenges facing many communities. That's why the government comes up with three new strategies in this area, which we're going to put forward before summer, and I hope it gets support from the Center Party as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1305	«Two weeks ago, an American nuclear submarine was docked at the port of Tønnes. Norway is bound by international law through the Geneva Conventions to protect civilians and to take precautions against the effects of attacks, including in peacetime. The First Additional Protocol, Article 58, states, inter alia, that the Parties shall ‘avoid placing military objectives within or near densely populated areas’. How does the Council of State assess the use of the ports of Tromsø for the construction of U.S. nuclear submarines in the light of our obligations under the Geneva Conventions?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1312	I am committed to following Norwegian international legal obligations in what we do. I am also committed to defending Norway and Norwegian territory against possible threats and attacks. We do that in active interaction with our allies through NATO's defence alliance. Groetsund industrial port is such that it is both security policy and strategically important for the possible defence of Norway supported by allies. The Government has therefore decided that the Grötsund industrial port can be used for the reception of allied reactor-powered vessels. There is no breach of our international legal obligations under the Geneva Conventions to use the port for the reception of allied ships. It is a duty of international law to protect civilians in a situation of armed conflict. Nevertheless, in Norway, as in most other countries, we have military infrastructure close to where people live for practical reasons. The most nearby example in this case is Haakonsvern in Bergen. But we have similar examples, for example: Oslo, Stavanger, Elverum, Stjørdal, Bardu, Sørreisa, Lakselv, Kirkenes and Vardø – I mention in fling. In an armed conflict, we will have to assess the threat situation in these places in concrete terms. Relevant measures may then be to assess the evacuation of those who live or have their workplaces in the vicinity of a military installation. Another solution might sometimes be to move the military activity to a more remote area. Reception of submarines at Groetsund is most likely inappropriate in an armed conflict in North Norway. In such a situation, this type of vessel will remain hidden, primarily at sea. Where a country needs to be ashore, it must be situated in a more protected infrastructure than the Groetsund. There is a long tradition that reactor-powered military vessels call at port in the Tromsø area. The reopening of such calls in this region is in line with established practices and in line with our security policy needs and rules of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1327	What we're talking about here is the principle of distinction, which obliges an attacking party to distinguish between military objectives and civil objects and people, and never direct attacks on civilians. Military objectives, on the other hand, can attack, even if they are in the vicinity of civil infrastructure, as is the case in this case. So the party that places military targets in the vicinity of its own civilian population exposes its own civilians to great risk. This will not prevent opponents from attacking the military target, but will increase their own civil succession in the event of a conflict, because the risk of civil loss increases proportionally with the proximity of the military targets. So here's what's the problem today: the obligation Norway is bound by, the obligation of international law. Have there been some authoritative assessments of whether we are now breaking our international obligations by setting military targets so close to a civil domain?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1334	Yes, of course it has been. In the event of a possible military attack on Norway, in line with the obligations of international law, the government will do everything it can to protect the Norwegian civilian population. It may involve evacuation of civilians in the vicinity of military installations, or it may involve the relocation of military activity and installations. It is also the case, if you are committed to the international obligations, that any attacker of Norway is responsible for following the Geneva Conventions and do what is practicable to prevent civilians from being killed or injured as a result of acts of war. In concrete terms, this may mean that an attacker must alert the civilian population before the attack is launched, so that there is time for evacuation. Finally, I must be allowed to say that the military activity we carry out with our allies is to prevent military and armed conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1343	One should seek to keep the military facilities away from the civilians – that's the whole question here today. In oral question time that we had earlier today, the Council of State claimed that he did not have an outcome against the inhabitants of Tromsø. But I'm quoting the state council itself: "This is Tromsø in a nutshell. There's too little military presence in Tromsø. You walk around on a little pink cloud there. There is higher military activity in the north, and more activity in Russia. The idea that a city can register out of this reality I don't understand anything about." Now I have just quoted what our obligations are under the Geneva Conventions, that one should not put up for military activity in the vicinity of the people's empire. It's a commitment we have under the Geneva Conventions. Does the Council of State still stand firm at the outcome he brought to the people of Tromsø, where he says, 'This is Tromsø in a nutshell'? Does he still stand by it today, or has he become wiser since then?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1353	It'll probably come as a surprise to the representative, because it won't fit into his populist communication strategy, but there was a question ahead of my answer, and that's what I thought about political leadership in the municipality of Tromsø, which thought that this type of activity should be different. There were no grounds for international law behind that. We've made these assessments. We have military installations very close to the civilian population very many places in Norway. I am very pleased that we have military presence in Norway. I am very pleased that I have managed to move the country power back to Finnmark in the situation we are in now. We take all the considerations that need to be taken, and then it lies at the bottom, the big disagreement between me and the representative: I am for us to be part of the NATO Defence Alliance and have allied activity with our forces. The representative Knag Fylkesnes is against it and uses all the laws to talk down the important defense alliance we're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1371	This question, from the representative of Geir Adelsten Iversen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be raised by the representative of Trygve Slagsvold Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1376	It is a pleasure to be able to ask a question on behalf of our biggest representative in Finnmark: ‘In their party programme for 2021–2025, the right has decided that they will, and I quote: ‘Continue the municipal reform with a view to larger municipalities with larger professional environments that are better able to handle the tasks they have today and to take on more tasks from the state and regions.’ The forced reform that the government has already pushed through has led to a centralisation of services and power. What municipalities in Finnmark sees the Council of State as coercive to follow-up the decision of the National Court of Justice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1385	This is a variant of a question that has been asked to me by various representatives from the Central Party one ten to twelve times in the last few weeks. It is a little surprising to me that the representative has not received the answer to the question, but to the delight of new viewers and listeners I shall take it again: I do not see myself coercing municipalities in Finnmark or other parts of the country. The debate on municipal structure is about the ability of municipalities to provide good services to citizens, to facilitate jobs and business and to develop the municipality in line with citizens' expectations and future needs. Municipalities face major challenges in the coming years, regardless of which parties are in government at all times. We know that many municipalities are struggling with relocation, challenges in attracting the right skills, increasing expenditure in the health and care sector and high infrastructure needs. At the top of this, municipalities have an important role to play in achieving sustainability goals and addressing climate challenges. Norway is a long-term country, and municipalities have very different conditions for meeting these challenges. Some will do well, some will already wear out. Over the past few hours, I have been given several times the opportunity to tell about my meeting with eight municipalities in Finnmark in April, where the councillor in Berlevåg said: In this municipality, the health and care department consists of one person, and in the last five months it has been me. He put that word on a problem for many district councils. They have serious problems recruiting enough professionals and meeting the demands and expectations of the Stortinget and its inhabitants. 90 pst. of the most dispersed municipalities themselves say that they have challenges in attracting the right skills. 67 pst. companies say the same thing. The answer for many of these municipalities is extensive intermunicipal cooperation. Intermunicipal cooperation is very good, but at the same time this is a sign that the municipalities are unable to comply with the generalist principle, and there is a development The size should take seriously. The municipal reform has not changed the basic structure of the municipality of Norway. There are still 120 municipalities with fewer than 3000 inhabitants, and about half of the country's municipalities have fewer than 5000 inhabitants. At the same time, we also see challenges of fragmented municipal structure in more central areas, where converging urban areas are shared between several municipalities. This leads to less holistic planning and poorer solutions for the population. The challenges I have described are not something the government has found out, there is something many people in the municipalities know about every day. I am therefore convinced that the municipalities themselves will ensure that the municipal reform continues in the coming years, as many Centerpart-steered municipalities are already in the process. More people are going to take the next talk, more people are going to see that you're stronger together than each other, and more people are going to join each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1400	We see that in the number of intermunicipal cooperation there are more between many large municipalities than between many small ones, so it becomes a rail argument that there is an argument for community aggregation when you see the number. It's not like they have less than the big ones. We've seen the Minister of Fisheries say that he sees coercion a little undervalued, that he wants to use force a little as he raises his own children. It was a statement he had. I think it was very unwise. Ove Trellevik, a local political figure for the Right, has stated that he believes that 10,000 would be a fine, natural number if you were to look at what a non-profit municipality should have – at least 10,000 inhabitants. My question to the Council of State Astrup is: does the Council of State Astrup see it as a goal that there will be fewer municipalities in Finnmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1409	My goal is that the municipalities of Finnmark, regardless of how many they are, should be able to provide good services to the citizens, and then it is up to the municipalities themselves to find out how they want to organise themselves. I recently met eight Finnish State municipalities, where four and four have decided to engage in a form of extensive inter-municipal cooperation with the division of functions between the local authorities, to ensure that a professional environment allows them to attract the skills they need to provide services. There is also a way to do this in municipalities that have few inhabitants, very large areas and great challenges of attracting the right skills. Community merger is not the answer in all contexts, but neither can it be that the Central Party on the Stortinget should reject the fact that the municipal merger is the answer in some cases, and that we may need to review the municipal structure, given that the tasks the municipalities have to do are far more complex today than they were at the time when the preferred municipal structure of the Senter party saw the light of day, in 1965.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1418	The Right-wing Government and the Advance Party have used a lot of resources to coerce Troms and Finnmark, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's 87 pst. The population said no, they chose not to listen at all, they forced it through. They chose to create regions like the Week, which nobody really wanted – I don't think there are anyone in the Right who wants it either – but it did, because you had to show some kind of action. It was very unwise and little thoughtful, the opposite of conservative politics, just change for the sake of change, which made things worse. My question, in the case of Finnmark, which has been so badly handled, with the pressure that has been done in the past, is: can the Council of State guarantee that not a new Right-wing Council, a new right-wing government will push the municipalities of Finnmark with economics or other means of launching new merger processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1425	As I said, we are concerned that municipal structure is something the municipalities themselves need to figure out, but I am convinced that many more municipalities are going to take the neighbouring talk in the years that are coming, as we see that the Centerpart-steered municipalities in the Nord-Gudbrandsdalen are now doing, to give an example. That's good. They do it because they see that there is a need to organize themselves in another way to meet the expectations of the citizens and the statutory tasks that Stortinget has given them. Finally, the Stortinget decides on the structure and division of municipalities between counties and municipalities in Norway. The representative admits that as a government council I cannot guarantee on behalf of the Stortinget as a college. It has to be almost the Stortinget as a collegiate answer to itself. Unfortunately, there aren't so many people here today, but we'll have to do it next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1435	‘The national summit decided that the Right would continue the municipal reform with a view to larger municipalities. The municipalities of Hedmark have done a great deal of work with the municipal reform. 19 local authorities in Hedmark have said no to the merger. In view of the decisions taken by the municipalities and the principle of volunteering based in Stortinget, the county council did not recommend any aggregations. No municipalities were merged in Hedmark. Can the government guarantee that no coercion will be used to merge municipalities in Hedmark when the reform is continued?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1442	I have also answered this question up to several times in the last few weeks – last in fact in the answer to the representative Schlagsvold Vedum a moment ago, but I repeat it in case there are any more. It is only the Storting that can decide the aggregation of municipalities that do not want it. This is provided for in the partitioning law, and on 7 December 2017, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to assume that good and voluntary processes should be the starting point for changes in the municipal structure and that any aggregations between 2017 and 2021 should be based solely on voluntary activity. Of course, the government has dealt with this decision, but I cannot give any guarantees as to what decisions a new enlargement will take. The government is working to strengthen the conditions of local authorities in order to provide good and equivalent welfare services, to drive overall and sustainable social and economic development, to have a sustainable and robust economy and to strengthen its own local democracy. In many cases, I believe that larger municipalities will be the best solution to achieve this. But not in all cases – the best starting point for building a new and larger municipality will always be that the municipalities involved themselves want the merger.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1451	I get to ask the question a little differently, then, since it's a little heavy for the Council of State. I think he understands that what I'm asking about is whether the government parties will vote to use coercion in future municipal mergers. Because if the government parties vote for it and you get a support party with it, it's going to be coerced. The centre party has announced that we do not want to use force. Then it's very interesting to know if the Council of State can respond on behalf of the government if you want to use coercion. Then I can ask: can the government guarantee that they will not make proposals, or that the government parties will not vote in favour of proposals in the Stortinget that involve the use of coercion to merge municipalities in Hedmark when the reform continues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1460	I can guarantee that the best starting point for community reunification is volunteering. It is clear that it is difficult to guarantee it on behalf of our entire country, but I believe that the best starting point is volunteering, and that it should be on the ground. I also think we're going to see more municipal mergers in the future because you locally see that there is a need for it. We cannot fail to see that there are several Central Party rapporteurs around the country, and many of them have great ambitions. I remember that Ivar Vigdenes once told me that his ambition was that there should be 40 000 people living in his municipality. It doesn't do that today, so he didn't quite succeed with it, but many of the Senterpart rapporteurs have great ambitions locally. That's good, and I think it's going to be more, just because you see that the problems you're going to solve now require something different than when this municipal structure was created, and it's more important for us to count municipal psychologists than counting the number of town halls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1467	Then I realize that the Council of State cannot guarantee that there will be no coercion on behalf of the government. But when you talk about volunteering as a starting point, there's an opening to use coercion and to deviate from that starting point. Then you realize that municipalities want to join each other voluntarily to solve new and larger problems, but then you're asked if it's a real volunteer, or if it's a result of leadership from the government, for example. that you have been assigned tasks without having to pay. There may be demands for the number of teachers in school, demands for community psychologists, demands for services that municipalities have to meet – but they do not have the financial means to follow up. Will the Council of State improve the local economy and ensure that the municipalities that need it receive larger transfers to prevent municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1476	I stood here a week ago and answered questions from the Center Party also at the time, when the claim was that there was too much money in the municipalities to hire more people. In the same breath it is said that you have not given enough money to the municipalities for them to carry out their tasks. Both can't be right. If the municipalities can afford to hire many more people, as the Center Party has pointed out they have done, it can't be that they don't have financial room for action to do so. At the same time, we see that the results in the municipal sector have been good steadily over the last few years. The community sector's money on book, the available funds, has increased from 30 billion. SEK in 2013 to SEK 70 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. So it's been a positive economic development. This means that the municipalities have room for action to develop the service provision for the inhabitants, and we add that they will continue to have it in the coming years, also in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1486	‘Rights want to continue the municipal reform, which was also a premise for several mergers. Which municipalities in Uppland believe that the Council of State should be coerced together, and how will progress on further coercive mergers by the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1493	This is a variant of a question I have answered many times before, and I will therefore refer to my previous answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1498	Governments should definitely show greater humility to the enormous work that has been done locally to investigate and evaluate mergers. What could tempt municipalities was increased responsibility and room for action, but new tasks were largely lacking. The Council of State is also pushing the law of division ahead, and it is tempting to hear if the Right will help to ensure that volunteering is a premise in this law. I also want to use a concrete example, because that's the seventh and last thing about – the service near people, the offer people meet locally, and actually the democratic entrance gate, the town hall locally. The government has been aware that municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants, and perhaps less than 10,000 inhabitants, have been too small. This concerns the majority of municipalities in Uppland. Does the Council mean, for example: that the Østre Slide municipality with its more than 3,200 inhabitants is one too small municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1507	It is not up to me to assess what is too small a municipality, but it is important to me that the municipalities have the power to deliver the tasks that people expect, deserve and have the right to do. We see that many municipalities now recognize that it is demanding to solve these problems. They are much more complex, they require much more specialised competence than was foreseen when today's municipal structure saw the light of day in the mid-1960s. That is why there is a great deal of intercommunal cooperation because it is not possible to solve the problems alone. It is also the case that more and more people consider the possibility of community mergers as an answer to building stronger professional environments. And we see that several of the Central Party rapporteurs around the country have also been involved in talking about community mergers as a real alternative. I wish the Central Party on Stortinget wasn't so concerned about saying ideologically no to all the contractions, but rather listening to those who have their shoes on out there. Take a cup of coffee, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1514	The center party definitely takes a lot of coffee cups and listens to people locally, including People-elected rapporteurs we have around the country, who just want to meet the high expectations of their citizens. It's just how pleased the people are with the services, which should be the premise. It's the right that has stated that it's the municipal boundary that determines whether you have good services or one. And there has also been an enormous amount of cooperation on intermunicipal services in larger municipalities. One would think that the processes that have already been carried out will provide some learning for the government. The coercion of e.g. Upland and Hedmark counties have, as yet, only been concerned with the harmonisation of supply rather than with natural cooperation. But as the Postgiro building sings: «The clock of harm becomes one that is wise.» Does the Council have any evidence that coercive municipalities provide a better service to all their inhabitants than those who are not coerced together? And does the Council of State agree that merged municipalities with fewer elected people are weakening local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1519	No, I don't think the number of elected representatives in the municipalities is crucial to the quality of local democracy. We see that, for example, Here in Oslo, the City Council has been composed of 59 representatives. It's a significantly smaller city government than it is in Ålesund, or what it's been in Trondheim. In Trondheim, urban governance is still considerably larger – it is probably up to nearly 90 representatives. So I don't think it's the number of elected representatives who decide whether you have local democracy or not. That is how local democracy actually works. And I think we're going to take seriously that there are a lot of municipalities that know that they're not able to recruit the professionals they need to provide good services, and then you need to think about new things. Community merger is not the answer to everything, but it can be an answer for someone – and then I think you should take the neighbor talk and figure it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1536	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1544	‘After several months of proceedings, the Directorate-General for the Environment concluded that they would charge Glasopor €16.5 million in reimbursement for cleaning up after the flood in 2018. Whoever finally gets the responsibility for cleaning up is basically important. Does the Council of State believe it is right that a company such as Glasopor should be given financial responsibility for the post-flood clearance, or will the Council of State consider acting in such a way as to change the responsibilities and thus avoid taking this great responsibility on behalf of the big society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1551	I understand very well that the company Glasopor and the Storting and others are wondering what I think about this matter, because it is a complaint to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. But the way we're dealing with these things is that I'm just dealing with this matter and then giving up a conclusion. So I probably can't comment on this right now. In general, I would say that with a changed climate with more extreme rainfall, there is an increased risk of damage resulting from flooding and flooding, realities that unfortunately happen now. Climate change is not something to happen once in the future, it is something that is already happening, and it poses a considerable risk of damage. The most important thing we can do to avoid the dramatic consequences of climate change in the future is to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. That's the most important insurance we have, that's the most powerful tool we have, and that's what we have to do in the future. At the same time, we have to adapt to a climate that will continue to change. So the fight against climate change is important, but it is also climate adaptation work. It is clear that all businesses need to adapt and increase the risk posed by climate change to businesses. This is the general starting point, but when it comes to the specific case, whether the Ministry of Climate and Environment will conclude in one way or another in the matter on which the company has submitted a complaint, I believe it is the most tidy thing – and I also believe that the representative agrees – that the company will receive an answer before the Stortinget gets an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1562	I'm going to describe a little bit of what happened, and then I'm going to take a little general question, which I hope the Council can answer. The leader of the Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen said on 20 May about the flood in Skåk and the demand against Glasopor that ‘it is difficult to be prepared for the unmistakable’. I suppose then the state must also take its responsibility when the unmistakable happens. The authorities did not notify this millennial flood. The ruined Glasopor's ability to protect both factory buildings and warehouses. On the day of the flood, both excavators, shovels and other equipment were suitable for moving sand and stone on the site. There were also more than 5,000 tonnes of rock available. Glass opera could have eight machine drivers in place within an hour. With four hours of warning, you would have built up your own dam. Neither Glasopor nor any other connoisseur NVE for not having caught this unimaginable warning. In my opinion, this flood was a natural disaster of a kind that no one could be prepared for. What would a small environmental company like Glasopor do differently to avoid getting responsibility for and the bill after an unannounced natural disaster caused by Schåk?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1571	However, without going into the facts in that matter or in any other way saying anything about the review procedure in that matter at the moment, I should like to allow myself some general reflections in an answer. It is then clear that businesses can increase the risk posed by climate change by planning their activities, internal controls, any insurance schemes, etc. I also hope that all companies do. Then it is that the code of liability for pollution is based on a principle called forureinar pays, and that responsibility is objective. This means that the starting point, according to current law, as the Stortinget has agreed, is that companies are charging for their pollution, regardless of the cause of their pollution. Then it shall be said that there is an action room in the legislation which provides for, inter alia, the possibility of: to be able to waive claims which appear to be unreasonable. I assume that this is one of the grounds on which we have to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1578	This has become a principle matter. Both wilder and wetter weather is forecast in the coming years. Whoever is ultimately responsible for the clearance after the thousand-year flood in Ottawa is, in principle, very important and does not concern only an environmentally friendly recovery operation such as Glasopor AS. I quote from the answer from the Environment Directorate. They say, ‘In the view of the Environment Directorate, it would be unfortunate to establish a practice of mitigation on issues where climate change is a contributing factor, as it would effectively exempt the private sector from making assessments and taking into account the increased risk of impacts from the external environment that must be expected from climate change.’ The finalisation of the Environment DG will have consequences for all activities in Norway that could be the subject of a natural disaster. I remember that both the State and the municipality had assessed the area to be safe, even as a garbage dump, which the area was used until 2017. What is the company actually required to pay for? And is there any kind of match between the size of the claim, given the size of the enterprise, and the ability to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1590	The Environment Directorate's decision calls for the payment of clean-up costs from the pollution that has occurred. As mentioned in my previous answer, it is that we have some fundamental starting points, and then there are some possibilities in the legislation to waive certain claims. In the specific case, we'll have to go into it, so I can't say anything about it, from time to time. When the representative talks here, it sounds like his starting point is that the state should in any case take the bill if an unexpected weather phenomenon causes a company to pollute. At least it's a starting point that breaks with what the Storting usually uses, which is the forurein payment principle. I'm not sure if he thinks it should be pulled that far, but it seems like the way I hear it now. At the same time, the state has an important responsibility to facilitate climate adaptation, and also to anticipate extreme weather. It's e.g. one of the reasons why we are now investing in new weather radar on the Finnish coast, which will cover the whole country with that kind of preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1601	The ordinary question hour is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-26.ana.ud42e1615	There is no record available. So the map is ready for today. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
