ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e28	The representative of Mr Wetrhus Thorsvik will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e33	On behalf of the representatives of Ola Elvestuen, André N. Skjelstad, Alfred Jens Bjørlo and myself, I propose to strengthen animal welfare for farmed animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e38	The representative, Andreas Shelg Unneland, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e43	On behalf of the representatives of Marian Hussein, Kathy Lie and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the penal code to prevent the sexual exploitation of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e48	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e53	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Tor André Johnsen, Silje Hemdal, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I have the honour to make a proposal on the general armament of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e58	The representative, Mr Kristjánsson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e63	On behalf of Marie Sneve Martinussen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the return of holiday pay to the unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e69	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e74	On behalf of Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to facilitate the choice of the municipality and the inhabitants of Alta itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e79	The representative, Frank Edvard Sve, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e84	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Helge André Njåstad, Silje Hämdal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on the current situation in Geirangerfjord following the decision on zero emission for cruise ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e89	The proposal will be managed in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e105	The Storting received on Monday's notice from the Prime Minister's office that the state councillors Ola Borten Moe, Espen Barth Eide and Ingvild Kjerkol would meet for oral Question Time. Yesterday, the Storting got a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that the State Council, Ola Borten Moe, is still unable to participate in the Question Time due to illness. Government councils Espen Barth Eide and Ingvild Kjerkol are present, and we are ready to start the oral question time. We then begin with the first main question, which is from the representative Tone Wilhelmsen Trøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e114	Many elderly people are lonely in old age. Some feel unsafe at home because the house is not arranged for a body that may not be as crack as before. The door frame is high, the stairs up to the other floor can be too heavy. Many people miss the opportunity to shop for themselves and to be able to meet others around a coffee cup when they fail and the house you live in is a piece away from the village center. It's just the social community that falls away when the distance gets too large and the threshold is too high. The right answer to these challenges has been to launch a project to build security housing that is centrally located near the store, the library, the café and the medical centre, so that the road becomes short and safe, both to the neighbor to turn off a chat and to the shop to shop for milk and bread. Without a plan to allow older people to live longer at home, the Workers' Party and the Centre have now removed the entire project of security housing from their adjusted state budget. In the summer, before she became a health minister, Ingvild Kjerkol said to the NRK that the idea of security housing was so good that she thought they had to be built throughout the country, not just in the district municipalities. Then I would like to ask the Council of State Ingvild Kjerkol: what has changed for the Council of State in the last few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e121	Preparing the Norwegian community for an ageing population is very important. The opinion to which the representative Troeen referred, when the previous government put in place a system for the district councils to expand security housing, I am still standing by. There is also a background for the government to withdraw the scheme. We want to see this in the context of a greater commitment – the possibility for all municipalities to expand security housing and new forms of housing. In fact, at the beginning of the previous ageing period, the Stortinget took a decision to investigate new forms of housing for the elderly. I am sorry that the previous government did not follow up. The project that got on the tap had a lot of good work, which we're going to include in the further work. But the background that we don't want to go further with that system is that we want to see it in the context of a larger bet, in the context of a home reform, which is also about the services that older people get in the home. I think that we need to think about new ways of developing housing that provide a safe and age-enhancing society, as it is called, where older people can live at home as much as possible and get security through good services and the use of technology – where also these social common arenas, to which the representative Troeen points, are more likely to be present in and around the homes. So this we'll come back to and look at in a larger context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e128	The turnaround from the state council is surprising, and it's disappointing, and it's very sad for many older people who need us to organize better so that they can have as active an age as possible. Being able to live life as self-held as possible and with the possibility of dealing with others is important at all stages of life. So we know that it's an ever-increasing lifetime. We also know that many of the challenges of creating a safe old age for older people are being faced by the district councils in particular. Now I hear the council say they wanted a bigger bet. I just want to remind the council that the municipalities that were involved in this project – it is therefore 209 of the country's municipalities that are within that pilot with security housing. Is this major investment anything but security housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e135	I very much appreciate the fact that the representative quotes me, and that quote said that we believe that building security housing, developing new forms of housing for the elderly, is becoming very important in the future. Therefore, we should have implemented similar arrangements for all the municipalities in the country. It's not a complete revolution. We take the consequences of this, and that is why we work with other schemes that will benefit all the municipalities, and we will come back to that very much. A pilot in 200 municipalities is interesting in itself. Why not make arrangements that all the municipalities in the country can apply for? We have experience with this from the past, where the House Bank has been an effective tool, and we want to look at that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e142	There will be follow-up questions – first Erlend Svardal Bøe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e147	Living as self-held as possible and together with others is important in all stages of life. It's especially important when age starts to set its tracks and the usual circle is getting smaller, maybe because spouses and friends are falling off. Then, as a society, we have to stand up. By facilitating the early entry of older people into organised housing, we can hopefully help to postpone their need for help and they can cope with themselves longer and thus thrive better in everyday life. The Council of State was in the districts, and my question to the Council of State is: When the government now cuts funds for security housing, what does the Council of State think would be a good offer for lonely elderly people in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e154	I believe that the municipalities are well able to assess it. Living the whole life-reform, as the previous government presented, pointed out in particular that this was to be the municipality's own reform. It contained a catalogue of good examples from different Norwegian municipalities of how to develop good neighbourhoods, good burgundy for the elderly, where the social arena has also been preserved. Here I think Norwegian municipalities need help from the state, and it's a work we're going to do, with tools that can help municipalities achieve these goals that the Life Life Reform points out, with good meal experiences, good social meeting venues – here I think we need to think new – and also grants and investment instruments to enable municipalities to implement these investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e159	Erlend Svardal Bøe – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e164	I agree with the Council of State that the municipalities probably need help from the state, but that's exactly what the Solberg government gave. There were funds put in for security housing. The reason why I'm asking the government council about lonely elderly people in the districts is that it was in the districts of the Solberg government that initially wanted to start security housing, because we know that there is a shortage of such housing in the districts, and we know that it's in the districts the proportion of older people will increase most. For the individual, an organised housing with a common living space will help to reduce solitude and maintain cognitive functions through activity. So in the first place, this was to be directed at the districts. When the Hurdal platform says that district policy needs to be strengthened and renewed, it is in stark contrast that the government is cutting the funds we have invested. Then my question is to the Council of State: does the Council of State not agree that it is right to start with security housing in the districts? And how district friendly does the Council of State think it is to cut funds for security housing in the districts, as the government does now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e172	This government has a district policy that enables municipalities to solve the problems. That is why, in the additional proposition that Stortinget is now dealing with, together with the government budget from the Solberg government, we have increased the free revenues of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr. It's important. The previous government was not very generous with hand bills to allow municipalities to invest in future housing and care for the elderly. Take, for example: ‘all time low’ — ‘pardon my French’, President — was in the last budget of the Solberg Government. The fact that we are now looking with new eyes at a system to provide more flexible housing for the elderly, where technology can be used, where the municipality is given the opportunity to have a different type of crew than what you have in happy life care, I think the districts will be grateful for in the longer term. Then it wasn't the right project that wanted to happen this time, but the municipalities are better able to do the problems after the extra proposition. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e179	Then you're out of time. The President hopes we can stay within the limits. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e186	The events in Kongsberg and Bislett have shaken the country. The police are investigating, but everything indicates that there is a breakdown in psychiatry. Seriously ill people who may be a danger to themselves and others do not receive the necessary help. It costs innocent people their lives, and I think many people react to the Workers' Party-Center Party government now proposing crumbs in the extra allocation to health and psychiatry, in the situation in which we stand. You're sending an extra $600 million. kr to the sick person of the country in the form of an increase in the excess. You punish yourself with cuts in the free amount, while you spend hundreds of millions of dollars on increasing the trade-union deduction. The money runs out to climate and assistance. The needs of psychiatry are enormous. I visited ROS in Bergen, who is working on eating disorders, and they are warning about the increase among children and young people. For very many years, we have seen a sharp decline in institutions, and experienced psychiatrists are warning that people are not getting needed help. It's going down on the sick, and it's going down on community -- yeah, it's actually going down on the safety of all of us. The size was decided in the spring – with, among other things, The votes of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, together with the Advance Party – that we should stop the construction of institutional sites. We need to review the available capacity, and we need to look at the need further. The Progress Party is clear that we need to earmark money for the construction of institutional sites in the future. Does the Council agree that the number of institutional places needs to be increased, and that it is more important to strengthen psychiatry than to increase the trade union deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e199	I'm worried about the increased needs of mental health. There is also a background for the Hurdal platform to have, as one of its main initiatives, an escalation plan across the mental health field, ranging from low-threshold mental health services in municipalities to long-term complex treatment and daily settings. I am also pleased that the Hurdal platform has exactly the decision that Mr Listhaug's representative refers to, as one of the points: that the reduction of daily space ends on this government's watch. Then we want to step up this, and in the additional proposition that the government has put forward, we're strengthening the hospitals by 700 million. kr, and we strengthen the basic funding, which means that the priority of mental health protection is reached. The government that represented Listhaug was part of, even in the department I am currently in, did not manage for a single year while they were driving the country, to fulfil their own priority rule for mental health protection. We're going to change that now. By increasing basic funding, all emergency services in hospitals will be given a stronger priority. Not least mental health protection. It is also important that we be able to prevent – early – the type of events to which the representative refers. When the damage has happened, it is too late – then it is left to the judiciary and the police to investigate such serious incidents. Our ambition is to strengthen the whole field, consistently, and we will give priority to that in the future budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e210	The problem is that these institutions are now needed. That's why this has to happen fast. You can't sit and wait for investigations up and down and down. There are sick people who don't get help. In 2017, the law on the use of coercion was amended. The threshold for the force was raised. In retrospect, the Progress Party believes that this should not have been done. This has led many to walk around the streets and live in our society with major mental problems because they are too healthy to get an offer or do not want to be coerced. The rules of coercion play a major role in the security of society. Now, at the hearing, there is a new proposal from the Forces Committee, which may make it even more difficult to use coercion. Will the Council of State take the initiative to scrap the proposal of the Forced Law Committee and make it easier, not more difficult, to use coercion to help the sickest among us — those who may be a danger to themselves or to others?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e219	First, I want to say that we're not waiting for major investigations. In the additional proposition that the Stortinget has to deal with now, we have already strengthened basic funding in hospitals and put the emphasis on mental health protection in that priority, with the visiting FACT team, who can meet the users at home, and we have said that the reduction of daily places ends on our guard. As regards the legislative processes that are going on, on the use of coercion in healthcare, we also intend to evaluate the amendment of the Law on Mental Health from 2017. It was a law that was passed with the votes of both the Labour Party and the Advance Party. At that time, the Labour Party and the Senter Party wanted to be evaluated. It was a proposal the Progress Party chose not to give its support to, but we are now implementing it. We have to follow up the work of the Forced Restriction Committee, and we'll get back to that. The consultation period expired last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e226	There will be follow-up questions – first Sylvi Listhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e231	Cystic fibrosis disease does not receive the necessary health care. Ellen Winther, 46 years old, is in Svelgen, Westland, and is completely devastated and dismayed that she has received the fourth rejection of medicine Kaphtrio – a medicine that has amazing results, where the doctors in Denmark say they can see with the naked eye that lung capacity is increasing. Ellen's condition is very serious. She's got 22 pst. lung capacity. She cannot have a lung transplant, and she has the pulmonary disease cystic fibrosis at the end stage. What can save Ellen is simply to get access to Kaftrio. This medicine is now authorised in 15 European countries. The last one was Spain. Nevertheless, Norway cannot afford to use this medicine, and there will be a rejection of these patients, who are in a desperate situation. Will the Council of State cut through and ensure that Ellen gets access to the medicine that can save her life, and as her doctors say she can get proper health care?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e240	It is important that patients with all types of diagnosis and suffering receive the best available help in Norway. We have a system for that, combining both the priority criteria adopted by the Stortinget and the available space for action in the hospital budgets at all times. The system of new methods is an arrangement that the representative Listhaug and her party have legislated. It is important that patients and professionals have confidence in this system, and it should now be further developed. Tomorrow there will be a report where the whole system has been evaluated, and it will provide us with an important basis for a priority debate in the future. It is always challenging when new drugs are being approved — if you have the opportunity to put them into use in Norway. That way to Norwegian patients we want to be as short as possible. But this is a system which is legalized with the votes of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e247	Sylvi Listhaug - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e252	The Progress Party will change that precisely because we see that it is not working, while the Council of State is pushing the bureaucracy ahead. In Norway, cystic fibrosis-sickness is not most readily available, as it is refused. It's 400 cystic fibrosis disease in Norway. They have three choices: You can buy the medicine yourself. A family does it with a 13-year-old daughter. They pay NOK 228 000 a month. You can become a health refugee, as Christian in Bergen now estimates. He's considering moving to Denmark. He was recommended by the doctor to do so, for he gets a pneumonia now in winter, so he can actually die. You can live in despair, become sicker, or have your lungs transplanted for those who can. Ellen doesn't know any of the parts. The working party says it's a common people's turn. It is definitely not cystic fibrosis-sickness's turn – and they are now completely despairing. Does the Council of State consider it sustainable for people to be forced to become health refugees or to pay NOK 228 000 per month of their own pocket in order to receive proper health care in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e270	First, I would like to say that I am not pushing the bureaucracy in front of me. I'm dealing with the laws the Stortinget has passed. I think that's a good tip for any government council. The system of new methods has now been evaluated. Tomorrow we will have a report, and I would like to invite both the representative Listhaug and others to participate in a public debate on it. It's challenging to have to finance new drugs. I think we need to work with other countries to get the best possible purchase agreement on behalf of Norwegian patients and also set some standards towards an industry that pays very well. We all want to help seriously ill patients, but we need a system that guarantees justice and priority. It's the only way to run a cooperative public health service. That's the way it was under the previous government, but I'm very happy that we're now getting a good debate on the system New methods, because that's what we want to develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e279	Seher Aydar - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e284	I would like to follow up on the question of access to healthcare. There are several health care costs that are not covered by the free card. There may be costs of bandages, stunning equipment, etc. In addition, the teeth are still not treated as part of the body. Now the government is increasing self-interest and doing nothing with dental care. When we know that differences are increasing in our society, that very many people have poor advice — it can be disability, minimum pensioners or single mothers who have poor advice — the Council of State believes that the government's action in the field of health policy, both of what is done, such as the use of drugs. increase self-employment and non-participation, e.g. with dental care, contribute to the access of more people to our healthcare?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e293	This government has put forward an additional proposition, and that is limited on what we get changed in the budget of the Solberg government. I have to say I was surprised when I saw the Solberg government produce such a sharp increase in the excess. Last year, the Solberg government tried the same thing. It was turned back in cash by Stortinget. Now there are negotiations on the budget here in the house, and I send a greeting to those who are negotiating. When it comes to dental health, I also want to tell the representative that it's not like we're doing nothing. There is also a reinforcement in the Hurdal platform. This government wants a gradual expansion of public dentistry, with the aim of making it more equal to other services. We will first focus on those who have special needs, and then go after the age trends to expand the public service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e300	Seher Aydar - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e305	I also want to send a greeting to those who are negotiators, and hope that they can change as much as possible on what the government has delivered right now in health, to make it more accessible to people no matter what kind of economy they have. That's right, what the council says about dental reform in the Hurdal platform, but my point is that there's nothing in the draft budget. There's nothing going on – not a start, not a small step, not a hint that we're going to try to equate all of our health services, and here we're going to, for example. start with those who can't afford the worst, or those who have the biggest expenses. Why doesn't it do anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e310	The supplementary proposal is an adjustment to the budget of the previous government, unfortunately. There has been no room to make big changes. We have prioritised mental health and capacity in hospitals, which are in a very stressful situation as a result of increased hospitalisations now due to both covid-19 and other respiratory infections, in order to allow them both to prioritize mental health and to re-enter patients’ treatment from the pandemic. We've also prioritised the tenets. The reason why we've made a priority is because we've had limited possibilities in an additional proposition. We have considered this to be the most important thing, the most urgent thing, and then the Hurdal platform has binding formulations to step up its efforts for more public dentistry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e315	Marian Hussein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e320	I'm actually a little shocked at the answer given by the Council of State, because it's the way the Big Government has presented the last additional proposal, and when the Council of State responds by sending a greeting to those who negotiate, it shows that the Council of State really wants to reduce the self-interest from the Solberg government. Here's a tactical or political game that goes at the expense of people who have bad advice, and those who are currently sitting and worried about how much they can buy in Christmas presents, versus what they have to save to pay for health expenses to next year. I think this is really quite alarming, because it's about life and health for a lot of people. Yes, we may disagree on politics, but using self-interest to force SV to negotiate what the council itself wants, I think it is very shocking to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e327	I feel that this is going to put things a little bit on my head, because in this room there was neither last year nor this year a large majority to increase the proportions of disease, as I have seen from that party so far said about its priorities. It is the Solberg Government that has put forward proposals, contrary to the budgetary agreement they made with the Progress Party last year. We have priority – we do not play political games. We've prioritised 700 million. kr to strengthen the hospital budget. We've prioritised 100 million. kr to the fixed medical system, which is urgent. We have prioritised a recruitment package to train more specialist nurses, which calls for our services. We have also prioritised low-threshold mental health services for children and young people. Policies are priorities. An additional proposition is limited, and we believe that this was what was most urgent now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e334	Marian Hussain – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e340	At the same time, the additional proposals of the Council of State and the Government show that priority is not given to the disadvantaged or poorly advised, when it comes to both taking away the inadequate ability to make extra money and at the same time not doing anything about self-interest. It seems that this government has also not prioritised doing anything with the increasing differences and giving a helping hand to the people who need it the most in society. Once again, I hope that the Council of State in next year's budget will come up with a proposal in the area of the Minister of Health that does not increase the differences in society and where our classed health services end up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e347	I would like to remind the representative that one should speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e352	I think I just have to repeat: the supplementary proposition is an adjustment of the Solberg government's budget. I fully agree with the representative – next year's budget will be the government's budget. It's a process we've already started. Health policy should not contribute to increasing differences. It should help the opposite, that it is not who you are, or where you come from, that determines how long you can live and how well you can take care of your health. That'll be our priorities. That's where the Hurdal platform is headed. That's where we put our common health care. There, we want to strengthen the mental part of health care. There we want to ensure that we have a fixed medical system that is stable and provides good medical coverage throughout the country, and we want to invest in children and young people through broad public health measures. There's a process I'm looking forward to. It's a budget I want to be more proud of. What we've been able to do in the supplementary proposition is priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e359	Kristoffer Robin Haug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e364	The Council of State highlighted the importance and importance of providing adequate beds within psychiatry and ensuring that these are in good treatment institutions. It is a very good assessment that we in the Greens fully support. Here we see a great opportunity today. There are many of the country's special hospitals for psychiatric disorders that have been proposed today, throughout the country. In other words, we are at risk of losing very many very good treatment places and beds in psychiatry, and it will be very challenging to replace these with equally good treatment places in the somatic hospitals. It is not well enough to determine to what extent it will actually work in practice, and this change will be irreversible. You'll never be able to get back the specialised hospitals. My question is, does the Council of State see here an opportunity to preserve these good treatment institutions and treatment sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e371	I do not know if I fully recognize the description that there are major plans to lay down many specialist hospitals. Where there are structural changes in the country, we know that. It's here in Oslo, it's in the Inland – there they are in the precinct, there's no decision on which way they want to go yet – and beyond that, we have the hospitals we have. And so is it that here we have ideal actors, especially in mental health and drug abuse, who we want to develop with a different kind of connection to public health than our predecessors. On our watch, the reduction of daily seats will not continue. We want an escalation throughout the field, from low-threshold mental health in the municipalities to those who need long-term daily treatment. We're going to come back to this, but we're going to point out the additional proposition, where we're strengthening basic funding in hospitals, so that you can give a priority to mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e378	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e383	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. During the interview of the historic climate summit in Glasgow, the government presented its additional proposal to the State budget. They were able to weaken an already too weak climate policy. Even the Minister for Climate and Environment had to admit that emissions are getting higher with the Workers' Party and the Central Party's draft budget than the right-wing government's proposals. It would have been tempting to ask the Council of State how you could do it every day, but I will not. I know the Minister for Climate and Environment as a person who is eager to get started with the emissions cuts. Therefore, I would like to receive an answer as to what he intends to do to correct this fade at the beginning of the government period. What will the Minister for Climate and Environment do to ensure more measures that quickly cut emissions and actually strengthen climate policy next year and years after that? The Minister must agree that it is a terrible response to the Glasgow Summit to start with a weakening of a far too bad climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e390	I thank the representative Haltbrecken for a good and important question. First, I would like to make it very clear that the emission cuts will be significantly larger in 2022 than they were in 2021, because we're increasing the CO 2 tax by 28 pst, and that will have an impact in large parts of the economy. So it is true that, compared with the budget that was presented, we have made an adjustment to the user charge that mitigates the impact of the CO 2 tax on petrol and diesel. We've been honest that that's the way it is. If you compare with what's presented, it's a little weaker. If you compare with what's been practiced, it's a significant improvement. What is absolutely true is that Norway has too weak a climate policy to achieve the goals we have. That's why we're going to go through each sector to look for all sorts of emission cuts. We are going to introduce a tight governance instrument, which we call climate-emission budget or carbon budget, where we are going to set targets for how much emissions we can allow ourselves year after year. It will be a falling path. In all future budget deposits, we must govern within the falling path of what we can allow to discharge. This will mean that all sectors in Norway, transport, industry, construction, fish, agriculture — any social sector — will have to find the cuts that are possible in order to stay within that framework. What we need now is a governance instrument that makes you not only look for simple steps here and there, but completely systematically provides for a structural change in the Norwegian economy, so that we get into a much faster economy that is renewable, sustainable and circular. There is no doubt that we are far behind there, and I fully share that concern with the representative Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e403	The Glasgow Climate Pact, which was adopted at the climate summit, encourages world governments to end the inefficient fossil energy subsidies. Inefficient subsidies are subsidies that would have given greater value creation if they were used for something other than stimulating more fossil production or use of fossil energy. Unfortunately, the oil tax package adopted last autumn by the majority of the population is an excellent example of such inefficient subsidies. Then my question is: will the government follow the Glasgow climate agreement and end all inefficient fossil subsidies? And if not, why not follow such an important agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e408	We were actually contributors to that decision. We would even like to remove the word 'inefficient', because we believe that all fossil subsidies should be eliminated. I believe we have a plan for that, because when the oil tax package was adopted last year, it was also adopted. It was limited in time. Then I want to pay tribute to the previous government at one point, and it was that they proposed a change in the oil tax agenda we are going to have after the oil tax package, to a real neutral system. We've supported that. When we get it in place, I believe that there is no basis for saying that we have neither effective nor inefficient oil subsidies. I believe that with the implementation of that policy, we are in line with what was adopted in Glasgow. I would like to mention that this has also been relevant in terms of the aid budget and the conversion of former oil for development into energy for development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e414	Follow-up questions will be given the opportunity – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e419	The council says it's a time-limited oil tax package. That's in itself right, but that time limit is of a fairly long nature. It is expected that there will be 58 applications related to new oil and gas expansions as a result of this oil tax package. One of the major projects, the Oscar Wisting field far north of the Barents Sea, which was too unprofitable for Equinor before the oil tax package came, was made artificially profitable by the oil tax package. So we are in danger of using inefficient subsidies for quite many years to come in the field of oil and gas development. My question remains whether the government will ensure compliance with the Glasgow climate agreement, ensure that the inefficient subsidies are closed, so that we do not continue with subsidies and fossil energy for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e424	The expiry date of the exceptional oil tax package is 2022. Then it is true that the projects will last longer than that – of course the representative Haltbrecken is right in – but by the fact that it has already been adopted when it was adopted, I believe that we are phased out any scheme that could be considered unreasonable stimulation. That decision in Glasgow doesn't have a date either. It was not specified from when, so you must have it as a policy direction. I believe that we will be satisfied by the fact that we are going to have a neutral oil tax system after the extraordinary oil tax package from the Koron era is dissolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e429	Frank Edvard Sve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e434	Now that Norway has, after saying, been sitting and seeing that China and India at the climate summit are only going to continue with their huge coal power stations and their impurities, how can it be possible to throw away environmentally friendly Norwegian hydropower on poor and expensive symbolism policies, such as the electrification of the base actually is? Can the Council explain the environmental impact of electrifying the socket, sending the gas to Europe, creating power from it there, then sending the power back to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e439	It is beyond doubt that electrification of the base will reduce emissions, because it replaces gas-produced power on the base. It can't be discussed, I think, that as long as you replace something that's produced with gas with something that's produced with electricity, the emissions go down. If that were the case, the use of gas in Europe was unlimited, you could ask questions about it. But now Europe itself has decided to tighten up the quota price, to tighten the quota availability, and to phase down the use of natural gas, and in that picture electrification will actually contribute. It is true that there is a large and demanding response, but that it has a climate effect, there is little doubt about it. It will help both to reduce Norwegian emissions and to reduce global emissions, such as in any other case replacing fossil energy production with renewables.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e444	Frank Edvard Sve – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e449	What the Norwegian people don't understand is that burnt gas is burned gas, and what climate effect you can get when sending pure Norwegian hydropower onto the socket, then sending the gas to Europe, which is then burned in Europe. If the gas is burned in Europe or Norway, the Norwegian people do not understand the difference. So I didn't think there was any answer to how one can get an environmental effect of burning the gas in Europe instead of burning it in Norway, and replacing it with Norwegian pure water power is at least very few who understand. So what's the environmental effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e454	It is difficult to imagine any individual measure in Norway that has a greater environmental impact. About 28 pst. Norwegian emissions come from the socket, and very much of it will be reduced by electrifying the socket. And then Europe, which for all practical purposes is our only gas market – 98–99 pst. of all gases goes to Europe — with their own decarbonisation. They shall reduce the use of gas as soon as they can, but the truth is that it is not possible to do overnight, it is a long canvas to bleach. Gas is used in both power generation and e.g. in private homes, in industry and in a number of other contexts. So when we see the two measures in context, that is, what Europe is doing to reduce its dependence on gas in the long term, and what Norway is doing to reduce emissions in both oil and gas production is undoubtedly having an impact on the climate. And if the Norwegian people don't get it, we're going to get better at explaining it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e459	Kristoffer Robin Haug – to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e464	What is certain after the Glasgow Summit is that there is an urgent need to take concrete action. That's why I'm going to be very specific on my question. The clay rail system is a large emission source in Oslo with annual emissions of more than 400000 tonnes of CO 2. Catching emissions through CCS will cut Oslo CO 2 emissions by around 14 pst. in the year, i.e. 1,3 million tonnes between 2021 and 2030. The government has previously promised to support the project if it received external funding, but on 16 November the EU rejected it and one of Norway’s main emissions reduction projects, while at the same time building new green industries, is at risk. In the light of the rejection of the application to the EU Innovation Fund, I ask: How will the government now ensure the financing and implementation of CO 2 capture at the combustion plant at Klemetsrud in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e483	I share the 100 percent Haug's commitment to the Klemetsrüdplant. It's almost impossible to imagine that we're going to reach the world's or Norway's or to the extent that the capital of Oslo's climate goals without carbon capture and storage, so we just have to succeed in that. Until yesterday we were waiting for the answer from the EU Innovation Fund. It is a pity that the Klemetsrüd plant was not supported. It would have been useful, obviously because of the contribution, but also to link it even closer to European processes. Now we have to think about what we're doing. I have already been in contact with both the Minister of Oil and Energy and other members of my government on what we are now going to do, and we are going to get back to that in an appropriate way. There are quite considerable budgetary implications. I don't have the answer to it clearly, but at least I can say that we are very aware of the need for CCS, carbon capture and storage, and not least waste management, because even in a future circular economy, it is something that needs to be burned, and we must have carbon capture at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e490	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e495	It's wise for the state councils to stay standing. Climate action has now been taking place in Glasgow, and one of the really new elements is that countries are going to come back to the next year with higher ambitions, more plans and more measures to be taken. And that applies to all countries. We have our climate targets, and they are very closely linked to the EU's climate targets. However, the government platform does not really say anything about how the government is dealing with the EU, which is now strengthening its objectives through its Fit for 55 with new goals that will also affect Norway, among others. that we will have a measure of the non-quota sector likely up to 50 pst. I assume that the EU will now review its objectives to see if they will also reinvigorate towards the next COP, in Egypt to the next year. So my question is: will the Council of State guarantee that Norway will join the whole package of the EU for Fit for 55, with their reinforcement, and will the Council of State work to strengthen its objectives, and that we also join them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e506	In the context of the climate summit, I had several meetings with the EU's first Vice-President, Frans Timmermans, who is the overall head of both Europe's green giving, of the taxonomy and of the Ready for the 55 package – or Fit for the 55 package – just to stress that we want to have a very close and good cooperation with them on it, and that we will actually also further develop the good cooperation we already have in the climate agreement, to which the previous government contributed, and which was given very broad support in the Great Britain, with our cooperation on the quota system, our cooperation through the EEA, also with a single form of cooperation, which should go on with the growth plan in the EU's green economy. So we definitely want to work closely with the EU on this. I would like to remind you that close EU cooperation is very helpful in cleaning up our own cuts, because this is also a device that we can use to organise our own climate policy. So the answer to that is definitely yes. Now I believe that our plan is among the world's most ambitious climate plans. We're going to cut 55 pst. in the whole economy, i.e. both the quota and non-quota sectors, by 2030. It is very difficult to see that Norway can have an even higher target than that, but that is what we need to achieve both through measures at home and in close cooperation with the EU. I would like to stress that we both have a target that we have declared together with the EU. and to be fulfilled. It is a joint responsibility of the EU, Iceland and Norway for the whole of their economy, and we must take a joint responsibility to achieve it. Then we have as part of the most ambitious European countries, for example. Denmark and Sweden, a target in addition to that – a national target of 55 pst. throughout the economy. So I think we're well prepared both for what's now and for the coming climate summit. But the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e517	If we go to the 55 percent, which is the national measure, we have to cut more than 50 pst. on the base, industry from last year with 50-60 pst., 55 pst. within non-quota, transport, agriculture and the other areas. With that ambition, $2.6 million. Every year for nine years, I have to say that I am amazed at the government's draft budget, when we know that we need to step up efforts from this year forward and every year – because the proposal weakens climate action. It's easy to say that we're going to cut 55 p.m., but will the Council of State put forward a plan to do that, which reinforces the climate plan that the previous government put forward, and ensure that this is followed up as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e522	The answer to that is yes, we will come back with a climate plan that will show how we are doing this in practice, because we are going to do this through the annual use of the climate emissions budget in each sector, we have to make all the sectors aware of how to actually get to these cuts. And then I would like to stress, as I answered the question from the representative Haltbrecken, that this budget will already cut the emissions a good deal more than the 2021 budget, which it is now managed to do. What it doesn't do is cut more than the proposed budget. But I would like to remind the assembly that for a total of eight years, the previous government also fully compensated the user fee, we do not, we only partially compensate. In this way, there is an improvement in relation to what Norway has delivered, but I wanted to be very clear that we have to cut more in the years that are coming, and we are definitely going to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e527	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e532	What the previous government did was put forward a plan, a 2030 climate plan, with at least 45 pst. emission savings in the non-quota sector. It shall be followed up in the budget now submitted. And then we know, even after Glasgow, that we have to reinforce this further. But that is the government's proposal, which weakens this goal. Then my question is: why is a new planning process set in motion and very much talk about climate budgets – we also have a climate budget in agreement with the EU, it sets a clear framework for how much emissions we can have each year in the next few years – instead of dealing with the climate plan that has already been implemented in the Stortinget, and look at how to strengthen it? Is it the climate plan that was implemented and dealt with in Stortinget, which is the starting point for further work, for strengthening it, or is it going to start something completely new again, with the delays it brings?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e541	There is never any good argument to do things that are already done, again, so parts of that climate plan are still relevant, even when we know that because of, among other things. a calculation error – unfortunately – in the Environment DG needs to cut more. Of course, we'll take that with us. But I recall that it only applied to non-quota sectors. We are now also going to have cut-off plans for the quota sector; it is new in Norway, but it is important in terms of an active industrial and industrial policy to bring forward the industries that are just about to enter the post-oil age. What we want to see now is that the difference between the government of Elvesuen was part of, and the one that is now sitting, is a much more clearly active green business policy, just to raise, not least, the industrial opportunities that lie in the green shift, much more actively. That is why we also set rather strict targets in the quota sector. So they have to be followed up with action, for example. this very important grip on climate partnership with business, where we will sit down with each sector and look at how that sector can contribute to climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e548	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e553	For the time being, we haven't seen anything about the previous greener profile. We're going to go see if the Council of State is right. Carbon capture and storage is a central part of what needs to be done, both in Norway to meet our targets and not least internationally to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees. I listened to the response about the Klemetsrud plant, which did not receive that EU support now in this round. They'll probably search again, that's absolutely correct, but we need to implement this project and the development project that it is. I heard the council say they would look at this again and come back. Will the State Council guarantee that we will implement the carbon capture and storage facility on Klemetsrud, regardless of whether or not you will receive EU aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e561	I think I answered as clearly as I think I can. We believe that carbon capture on waste incineration with Clemetsrud as a pilot, but also relevant to many other parts of Norway, is crucial to achieving climate change targets. Waste is something we're always going to have even in the future circular economy. Then we're talking about billions of dollars. I do not intend to stand here and conclude on a problem that arose yesterday because the EU said no, and we had of course hoped that they would say yes. But I can guarantee that I will work without undue delay with my colleagues in order to get a good answer to this. We are deeply and fundamentally in agreement with the issue. We have to end up getting carbon capture on Klemetsrud and a number of other waste facilities around the country within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e568	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e573	Let me first congratulate the Council of State on the Glasgow Declaration and thank him for his efforts on behalf of Norway. The declaration led to important progress, but it will still be absolutely essential for each country to do its part of the job if we are to succeed in achieving the climate goals in 2030 and 2050. The working party is concerned with this when the party on its websites writes: ‘In all major political matters, we must therefore ask ourselves: are we the climate stones?’ The government has now presented its first major case for Stortinget through the additional proposition. Prior to that, the Council of State said: «When we have said that we have higher climate ambitions than the previous government, we have to show it in the supplementary proposition». He said this to the Evening Post on 24 October this year, but on 8 November, the Council of State admitted that the additional proposition reduces between 1.5 and 2 million tonnes of CO 2 less to 2030 than the Solberg Government's proposal for the State budget for 2022 does. What is the reason why the Council of State went back on its promise in the Evening Post on 24 October and presented a significantly weaker climate budget in the additional proposition than the Solberg government did? And does the Council of State believe that the additional proposition consists of the climate test?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e593	When the representative Astrup refers to 1.5 to 2 million tonnes, it is true if this was to be completed by 2030. We should not, of course, because climate policy must be tightened up to a strong year after year. So, as the Council of State knows very well, the Ministry of Finance calculates what would be the effect if this were repeated year after year. But we have no plans for that, because we are definitely going to tighten this up in a number of areas. So it's like we felt that it's important to bring people on climate policy. Such a huge jump in the fuel and diesel tax so quickly I think I would create quite a lot of resistance from many. That's why we've chosen some other grip, which compensates for this. The price of petrol and diesel is now rising relatively sharply, but less than it would have done with the arrangements of the Solberg Government. Then we move a lot of money to get out charging stations all over the country, because we think the most important thing we can do now is to make sure that people in both the city and the city can make the choice in their lives that is going over to, for example. zero-emission transport. Then we have a number of other steps to start processes that don't get climate impact in 2022, but in the long run, compared to what is now done with, for example. a more active green industrial policy, in which there is a good deal of money in the budget. So I mean we've set the direction for more. But what I want to say is our most important act is the action climate partnership with business. It has to be negotiated. It is a carbon budget, or climate change budget, for each sector, and it will have an impact in the years that come, and not in 2022, because it takes a little time before this comes into place. I would like to stress strongly that we have a very strong ambition to achieve the climate goals, and that we are going to do so in a way that is both effective and experienced as fair.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e604	The Council of State said that the Council of State is well-known that it must be tightened year after year. I think he meant the ‘representative’, but I am glad that the Council of State also agrees. With regard to the importance of tightening up year by year, it is quite clear that this must be done, but at the same time, we know that cutting early is crucial to achieving the 2050 targets. The Web site of the Workers' Party states: ‘The budget for 2021’ – this is clearly written a while ago – ‘plays a crucial role for the 2050 target image. What we're about to do now will make it easier to achieve our goals in time» Then my question is: if the budget for 2021 played a crucial role in achieving the climate objectives in 2050, why does the budget not play an equally decisive role in 2022? In what way is it in line with Norway’s climate objectives to propose increased emissions compared to the Solberg Government’s proposals? Will it not only make it more difficult to achieve the climate goals in 2050 that the Council of State has chosen to go for higher emissions in 2022 than the Solberg government proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e618	I would like to remind you once again that we are going too lower emissions than the Solberg government provided in some budget for eight years, because the government that former government council Astrup was part of, actually fully compensated for the user charge, which we do not. So I have a relatively good conscience for it. The most important thing we do is to increase the CO 2 tax pretty strongly, 28 pst, and it has the effect in much larger parts of the economy than just petrol and diesel. I believe that is a very important signal, and by that it begins the escalation of a CO 2 tax of NOK 2000 to which the Stortinget joined when the climate plan was dealt with. So that's the most important signal about the future. This government believes that the polluter should pay, it must be more expensive to get out, but then we also believe that it must be easier not to do so. For the most part, for the most part, and for the most part for the most part, we have to think about how we do this so that people can make the choices that make you live climate-friendly, without having to interfere unnaturally with their everyday lives, beyond what is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e633	President...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e638	If the representative wishes to speak, he must ask for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e643	Yes, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e648	Nicolai Astrup – for follow-up questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e653	Thank you. I'm a little rusty about asking questions to state councils, but I'm going to improve in the future. Governments have mentioned several measures that the government wants to implement, and Prime Minister Gahr Støre was also high and dark before the additional proposition was presented and promised an additional green billion for climate and environmental action. What he didn't say was that the green billion is funded by cuts in other climate and environmental measures. And not just that: if we add it up, you go negative net. If you keep climate aid inside, but also if you keep climate aid out, it actually goes significantly in minus – by cutting 400 million. SEK in Nysnø, 30 million. SEK in Green Platform, 70 million. NOK 120 million in Innovation Norway's Eco-Technology Scheme. kr to voluntary forest protection, to mention something. Does the Council of State think that this is in line with the Labour Party's policy, that what we are about to do quickly makes it easier to achieve goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e661	I would like to refer to the wise words that Minister of Health Kjerkol said earlier today about what a supplementary number is. So it's an adjustment to an already submitted budget that came a few weeks after we took over. What Norway needs is a structured review of all sectors of society in order to achieve a very serious climate, and we have very ambitious plans for that. That is why we will produce an up-to-date climate plan, and we will come up with concrete measures in each and every sector. One of our most important steps will be to sit down with all relevant sectors of society and think about how we – business and the state – can work together on significantly faster cuts. I am asking for this to be understood that we had not started after two weeks in government, but it is very high at the level of both the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Oil and Energy, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture and all other relevant Councils of State. So we're definitely going to do that. And then we can discuss how these operations are done, but that we're going to do more, at least there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e666	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e671	The Council of State agrees that there is misleading marketing when the Prime Minister goes out before the additional proposition is made, saying that there is a fresh billion coming to new climate measures, and that, when you see the additional proposition as a whole, it turns out to be a cut – and a little depending on how you calculate – of perhaps up to 750 million. kr in domestic climate action? Does the Council of State believe that it is proper marketing to say that this was an increase in domestic climate action? And that's the exact opposite of it. This is a clear weakening. Not only with regard to the excise duty on fuel, but in a number of other areas important measures are being cut. Does the Council of State think that Prime Minister Gahr Støre's words that it was a freshly green billion stand in the light of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e676	I believe that the measures that the Prime Minister presented that day are real measures that actually exist. So there's a lot of ways to figure this out -- what you take in as climate action, and what the effects you calculate of it -- that I think it would be wise to come back to in a slightly more organized context. What is important for the climate is first what actual cuts can be achieved by 2030, and the second is what we do to bring forward the industries and solutions that will help us into a renewable, circular and sustainable future. It's so complex and complex that I think it requires a little bit more basic review. But I believe that the measures presented by the Prime Minister are, of course, real measures in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e681	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e686	It is quite right that there are real measures in the budget, but the cuts you make are also real cut, as shown by the same additional proposition. The question is whether the Council of State recognizes that climate action – and other good environmental measures, in and on its own – is more important than what you put on, i.e. that you net down. There is a clear deterioration in the climate and environmental performance of 2022 that the government has chosen to promote through the additional proposition. Then the question is, is this in line with all the other beautiful words that the Council of State here makes about the efforts to be made, both in 2022 and later?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e691	I will then repeat that the most important climate change grip after all is the increase of the CO 2 tax by 28 pst. So you have to do a calculation: what is the climate effect of that grip? It's the beginning of an increase over many years, and it's the previous government's own statement that this was the most important step. For example: pilot projects and efforts to develop new green industries cannot count the krona. It needs to be seen how effective that action is in relation to the kind of climate ahead. I think it's going to be a little bit too simple. But we'll see the whole of this when we get the opportunity to present a comprehensive climate plan and show how these climate budgets, or carbon budgets, are starting to work. And so we have a main act, which is increasing CO 2 tax, and we want to add a number of concrete measures to change, for example. the efforts of different sectors. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e704	One may try to stay within time, and I would like to remind the Council of State to speak through the President. Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e711	It is clearly well within the Council of States to recognise that there is a net cut in climate action in Norway in 2022, as a result of the additional proposition made by the Council of State. So I'm going to make it a little bit easier for the council and change the theme a little bit. We know we have to cut in all sectors. It also applies to shipping, not least internationally, which is responsible for significant emissions. Both the Norwegian Shipowners’ Association and the International Shipowners’ Associations believe that a global CO 2 tax adopted through the IMO would be the most effective measure to contribute to this. My question is therefore: will the Norwegian authorities support this proposal when the climate policy framework is to be discussed in the IMO next week?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e721	In the context of the climate summit, we had a number of meetings. I had a number of meetings with both Norwegian and international shipping and with people from the IMO, and this is an extremely important issue to be resolved in the near future. I don't have a complete answer to that particular question, because there has been a slightly different view of what was the right way to approach it, but at least I can promise the representative that this is very central. We have to get in the direction of what the Norwegian shipping industry itself says: to have a zero-emission sector from 2050, you have to stop contracting ships with emissions from 2030. I personally believe that it would be a good idea to have a CO 2 tax that contributes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e729	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e735	My question goes to the Minister of Health. For the Advancement Party, it is important that we give older people priority by providing them with safe, dignified, good and warm care for the elderly. In too many municipalities, municipal politicians lower the priority of care for the elderly. The party clearly rejects the lotto states in the care of the elderly and was therefore very pleased that we were able to carry out the pilot project with state-funded care for the elderly. In the municipalities of Arendal, Askøy, Björnafjorden, Enebakk, Fromand, Innere Østfold, Lillesand, Lvgal, Lødingen, Selbu and Stjørdal, the offer to the elderly in the municipality has been strongly strengthened, as well as to others in need of care. The last thing Solberg government did was put forward a government budget where they removed the trial scheme. This means that several municipalities, such as is directed by the Labour Party and the Centre Party, losing revenues of several tens of millions of dollars. The rapporteurs have called an alarm and have asked the government to keep the system. This has obviously not been listened to by the Minister of Health, because there is still no money to continue this good project. This means that these municipalities need to reduce the provision they provide in the care of their inhabitants. Is it not embarrassing for the Council of State that the Labour Party should ensure that the State becomes a non-profit-making partner, and what is the reason why the government will not listen to its own rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e746	It is not this government that has signed an agreement with the municipalities. The parties that make up the government have had a different profile on the care of the elderly and our priorities all the way. This is the Performance Project of the Advance Party, and I really believe that the Progress Party has done a little too bad work against the government they've been part of for seven years, and supported for eight years, to secure this baby. The fact that the municipalities are in a difficult situation, I understand, but this government has provided an additional letter, an adjustment to the Solberg government's budget. If we had found the money that the Solberg government had removed when they broke the agreement with these municipalities, it wouldn't be in line with our priorities. We've chosen to strengthen all the municipalities, by 2.5 billion. kr in the additional letter. It is for all municipalities to be able to provide sound and good care for the elderly, a warm and individually adapted care for the elderly, as the representative says in his post, and which I fully agree with. We want there to be no big difference for the elderly in the offer that meets them locally, but we believe that the municipalities are the best ones to just make an offer locally. For there are differences in investing in extensive day activities, for example: There are differences in whether you have a large number of institutional places, compared to having more organized housing and a stronger home service. These assessments are made locally, according to the population of each municipality. What we in the government are going to do to help the municipalities is to ensure that they have enough skills in the care of the elderly, to ensure that full-time becomes a standard, so that you get the same faces to deal with when you need help, and that it is also possible to invest and expand the day care and care in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e755	I guess I feel a little bit that we've got a disclaimer minister, because this is the second time today that the Council of State refers to someone else, to the previous government. It's now this government that is presenting the supplementary proposition. So all the sun brands show that the system of state-funded care for the elderly is working very well in the municipalities that have it, and when the rapporteurs from the State Council's own party are in favour of maintaining the system, it does indeed speak quite well for themselves. However, when the Council of State does not take into account the concerns of the rapporteurs, it shows that either there is a lack of willingness to give priority to the elderly, or the government is in favour of taking off the ideological skyscrapers they have in front of their eyes. Does the Council believe that rapporteurs who believe it is dramatic to remove the system of state-funded care for the elderly are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e764	The representative Hoksrud is trying to give me responsibility for a policy that is not the policy of this government. The two batches that make up the Big Government have never entered into this experiment. This is the agreement of the Progress Party with the municipalities. It is the Progress Party that has shot it badly. Here the Progress Party has been both part of the right-wing government for seven years and supported it for eight years. It was as surprising to me as it was probably both for the rapporteur in the municipality in which I live, who is a SIO municipality – SIO is the abbreviation for this project – and for the representative Hoksrud, that the Solberg government here broke a signed agreement. My predecessor, Health Minister Bent Höie, was as late as in the election campaign on a visit to Stjørdal, my municipality of residence, and guaranteed this project. The priority we have done in the supplemental letter is to strengthen the ability of all municipalities to provide adequate care for the elderly, through an increase of 2.5 billion. kr in free income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e771	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e776	My question goes to Minister for Climate and Environment Espen Barth Eide. Methane is a 28 times stronger greenhouse gas than CO 2 and cutting methane emissions will be able to slow down climate change quite quickly in the short term. It is therefore gratifying that the government committed Norway in Glasgow to a global initiative with 90 other countries to reduce methane emissions by 30 pst. by 2030. Norway has already reduced our methane emissions by 25 pst. from 1990 to 2019, in particular by cutting waste and oil and gas sectors. That's good, but this new initiative is about 30 pst. cut from 2020 level. It is clear that several interventions need to be taken, including in Norway. Today, agriculture is the largest source of methane emissions in Norway. Agriculture has very high ambitions on behalf of, for example: the development of breeding and feed, which is important for the reduction of methane emissions. At the same time, we know that in the climate agreement with agriculture there is no concrete question of cutting methane emissions. Since 1990, agriculture has cut 7 pst. Compared to 25 pst. otherwise. Since the government has committed Norway to this initiative, I believe that it is more than a PR stunt and that concrete action should be followed up. My question is whether the Minister for Climate and Environment can tell us what concrete new measures and initiatives, perhaps especially in the agricultural sector, that the government intends to take in the next few years so that we can take our share of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e790	I thank the representative Tybring-Gjedde for her commitment to methaneputt. It is, as was said, very important that we see that there are different types of greenhouse gases, so methane is a much more dangerous greenhouse gas, but in return for card life. It has the good news that if you cut the emissions, you will notice the effect in the much shorter term and in our own lifetime. In fact, implementing what was now adopted from a large number of countries in Glasgow can lead to 0.2–0.3 degrees less heating. I'm very proud that we were in on it. And yes, we will definitely look at our own methane emissions. We have clear formulations on more sustainable feed in the Hurdal platform. There is also a lot of exciting research, including. at NMBU on Ås, as regards how to obtain feed types that are more sustainable but that also reduce methane emissions from the animals eating the feed. And there is also the possibility of working with fertiliser production, and also fertiliser, which can make fertiliser use more efficient and thus reduce methane emissions also from fertilizers, which are perhaps the most important sources of agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture and I have agreed that we should sit down and look at how we can contribute to this field, so that we can help reduce methane emissions in Norway as well. Then, for the sake of order, I would like to stress that 30 pst. Cut is a global cut, it is not a commitment for each country. It is also explicitly stated, because a number of countries have done little, many have done something and some have done a lot. We're among those who've done a lot already, but of course we have to help cut methane emissions where we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e799	I was a little surprised at the answer, because last week the Minister of Agriculture, Sandra Borch, was here in the Questionnaire and answered a similar question, and then the Minister of Agriculture could stress that this global initiative would not change anything for Norwegian agricultural policy, but that it was the climate agreement with agriculture that was firm, and that the only thing Norway was going to contribute was really experience transfers to other countries about how they could cut their methane emissions. As I hear it now, I guess there are other tones from the climate and environment minister about what you're going to do. In that case, it is a relief for us who hope that when you are at press conferences in Glasgow, you will follow up here at home. But then my question to the Council of State is, Is this agreed in government with the Minister of Agriculture? And does the Council believe that Norway should perhaps have its own targets for methane emissions if we are to take part in the agreement we have become part of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e806	The government has agreed on the Hurdal platform, and it says that we should work on feed production and stretch towards more sustainable feed production. The objectives of reducing methane emissions will coincide, and the natural development of agriculture, for example, is a natural development. with more efficient fertiliser methods, emissions can be reduced. More precision fertiliser, for example, is a contribution to it. So that's what we're going to work on in the follow-up to this, because each sector is of course going to contribute to emissions cuts where you can, and I think it's fully compatible with other agricultural policy objectives, such as. increasing the degree of self-storage, which we are also strongly behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e811	There will be follow-up questions – Mathilde Tybring Gädde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e816	Yes, agriculture is now in the process of much follow-up to the climate agreement – reducing food waste, improving efficiency, improving the quality of the grass harvested, developing sustainable feed, and research, which the minister also has to deal with. But what surprised me was the announcement from the government after Glasgow that the global initiative we were part of was not going to change our policy in the agricultural sector, and that it was primarily an experience transfer we were going to contribute to. Also in the nations, the Minister for Climate and Environment confirmed that this would not create new expectations or demands on agriculture. Then, again, my question: What new concrete measures, beyond the climate agreement with agriculture, in addition to the measures that the Council of State now mentions, which are already in the climate agreement, does he want to promote for the future of the Storting in order to follow up the global initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e824	I mean, two things are true at the same time. One is that Norway is already reducing methane emissions in many areas and that part of what is already on the Hurdal platform will contribute more to it. The second is that the agreement itself will not change those plans, precisely because those plans are already under way. So I believe that our current Norwegian policy, with the leaders on the Hurdal platform, helps us to fulfil our share of this. What I said in the nation, which I gladly admit, is that it is not a duty for every country to cut exactly 30 pst. Of course, it has to do with different countries having completely different starting points for what they have already cut. Therefore, experience transfer becomes very important. For some of the things we have learned – which have helped us cut, as the representative correctly says, up to 25 pst. in methane emissions – based on transferable and scaleable measures to allow large global methane emissions reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e831	Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e836	I can then follow up the Council of State a little more concretely: if it is the case that one now wants to sit down with the Minister of Agriculture and look at new measures in the agricultural sector in addition to what is in the climate agreement with agriculture, does the Council believe that Norway should have its own targets for methane emissions cuts? It is not within the climate agreement now. Does the Council of State want to do anything else in red meat? What kind of action does the Council of State think of then? The reason I ask is that I feel that the government is coming with me, for example. new climate objectives without following up concretely with new climate action. Methane emissions are also now mentioned without any concrete follow-up, either in terms of objectives or in terms of new measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e841	I feel like I have to repeat myself a little. It is therefore an important technological development that is also affecting agriculture. Fertilizers are both used for fertiliser production, as are fertilizers and feed, which will contribute to the reduction of methane emissions. Furthering it is a contribution to reducing methane emissions in Norway, together with the other measures, such as: in the production of gas, which has already been largely carried out or is planned. So we're actually in a pretty good path towards 2030, to have cut the methane emissions a lot more, and I think that's compatible with the agreement we made. But the agreement itself commits the world as a collective to cut 30 pst. Not every country is going to cut 30 pst. So we'd better get back to if we set our own targets. We haven't done that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e848	The oral question time is over, and we go over to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e862	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will see in that context the electronic question list. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Local and District Affairs as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister of Local and District Affairs, this question will be moved and answered before question 12, which will be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative of Mr Elvenes to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea as the appropriate representative. Following a request from the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, this question is moved and answered in response to question 7, which is to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 20, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment as the appropriate representative. The question has been moved and will be answered for question 11, which will be answered by the same State Council. Question 25, from the representative Tage Pettersen to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e879	Question 1 has been moved and will be answered before question 12. So we go to question 2, from the representative Sivert Bjørnstad to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e887	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘When the country closed down and the borders of our neighbouring country were closed as a result of the pandemic, the daily food trade and the food industry experienced an upturn in both the number of employees and the turnover. This recovery is close to linking to smaller border trade in our neighbouring countries. Now that the boundaries are largely open again, the same industries, in particular along the border, experience a loss of turnover and the disappearance of the basis for many jobs. What action has the government taken in the state budget for 2022 to remedy this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e896	The government is very concerned about the Norwegian food industry, Norwegian goods trading and ensuring safe Norwegian jobs. The commercial industry is an industry that employs many people all over the country. It contributes to living communities and the active local environment. The Hurdal Platform states that government parties will review the border trade problem in the light of the experience gained from the coronary apathy and from other countries, such as Denmark, and propose concrete measures to reduce border trade and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian business. Furthermore, the travel restrictions imposed by the pandemic have greatly reduced the travel activity of the North and have contributed to a significant increase in turnover on, for example: The wine monopoly and in Norwegian grocery stores. The reasons for increased turnover for actors such as the Vinmonopolet and the grocery stores under the pandemic are very complex — and more than one stop in the border trade. There is no possibility of making use of the importance of the tax-free system for the domestic placing on the market of alcohol and tobacco products. Closed restaurants have also played a role in increasing the turnover of the wine monopoly. Furthermore, very many Norwegians have ferried in their own country, and food and drink that would otherwise have been purchased and consumed abroad has been bought in Norway instead. This isn't the first time I've been involved in this issue as a state councillor. The last time I joined the government, I took up the fight for the Norwegian food industry against the EU system under what was called the cheese duty case. This was an important step for which the Progress Party was very critical when it was implemented. It turns out to be of great importance to the entire food industry and the value chain. It has ensured jobs and value creation around the whole of Norway. It is too early to say whether closed borders under the pandemic have brought about lasting changes in the pattern of trade. It is also too early to say what effect the tax reductions carried out in 2021 will have on the scale of border trade. After all, the fees for wine, beer and snuff were reduced, and the charges for chocolate, confectionery and non-alcoholic beverages, which have been important border products, were also changed. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has concluded an agreement with the SSB on a new and better border trade statistics, which will provide more information on the behaviour of the Nordics across borders. Hopefully, this will be a useful tool to monitor developments in border trade in the future. Because we're concerned that the most jobs are going to be in Norway. In the additional proposal for the State budget for 2022, we have made small adjustments to the tax-free system that will strengthen Norwegian commerce, including Norwegian grocery trade, while having a tax-free system that can work. We have been able to balance it in a way that allows us to get more jobs and more value creation domestically while also carrying on with the tax-free system. Then it will be important for the government and me as Minister of Finance to continuously assess what steps we can take to reduce border trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e913	I thank you for your answer. It is very good that we now have an agreement with the SSB on a new and improved border trade statistics that will be able to provide more information on how this is happening. But that is, first and foremost, a tool to monitor developments in border trade, not an instrument to reduce border trade, which I believe is also a goal for the Minister of Finance. This is basically about Norwegian jobs. And we know that there's one thing in particular that's important for whether you border trade or not, and that's the price of the goods. The price is influenced by many things. You don't get to do anything about it, for example. the overall level of costs higher in Norway than in Sweden. Something's hard to do with, for example. customs protection. But something is simply to do with it, and it is to lower the excise duty on the baits. Why does Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum not want to introduce lower charges on baits, so that we can keep many of the jobs created in Norway under the pandemic, also in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e924	As a magnificent representative, I was particularly concerned with part of the arrangements put in place by the previous government, among others. that you had a duty-free quota you could shop for at online shops, which led a lot of online commerce out of Norway and did so, for example. the cost of buying a shower free of charge in Norwegian online shops. We were also very critical of the charging shops they did, both on alcohol and non-alcoholic beverages and on chocolate – typically border-traded goods. So for the Centre Party, it has been important over time to raise the issue, and both for the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, ensuring jobs and value creation in the Norwegian food industry and Norwegian food trade has been crucial. That is why we were very critical of the fees rounds that took place during the previous government. There was a lot of anxiety, which we also believe contributed to extra pressure in Norwegian shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e937	In the last year there has been no fee shop at all. In the last year, excise duties on border products have been reduced by nearly 5 billion. kr because the Progress Party gave this the highest priority when we negotiated the State budget with the Solberg government. The fee for chocolate and confectionery was removed on 1 April. In addition, the fee was reduced by 25 pst., wine and beer by 10 pst., and from 1 July the levy on non-alcoholic beverages disappeared. It's a very good start, but it's probably not enough to do everything you have to do, related to the fundamental problem of border trade. We are many who remember the TV 2 news about a year ago, where Battle Violence Vedum tried to joke away the problem by saying that for the Center Party it was more important to have lower fees on sausage and pizza than on pylons and darts. But then at least the Senterpartie had an answer, and there was lower VAT on Norwegian food. Today, the Minister of Finance is left without a single answer. Is it such that the Centre Party and the Battle of Vedum have forgotten those who work in the food industry and in the grocery trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e946	No – the government has actively prioritised that we should have a lower level of charges for border products next year. So there's going to be a lower charge and a zero charge on non-alcoholic beverages. That's what the government's proposal will be next year. There will be lower taxes on chocolate compared to what was used to, as the border was open. There are a number of lower taxes that the government has now prioritised. We believe it is a right priority, and then we will have experience when the border is now open, how it will turn out on trade statistics between Norway and Sweden. Then, fortunately, the Nordics most have a higher salary. There are also slightly higher costs for Norwegian grocery stores and slightly higher prices. Fortunately, we also have a Norwegian food industry which employs tens of thousands of people, but which makes it a little more expensive for Norwegian food shops. In the case of fees, the government prioritises a lower level of fees than what we were used to before the coronary apathy came, and we believe it is wise and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e958	‘In March, the parliamentary leader, Marit Arnstad, declared to the VG on behalf of the Central Party that the party could not sit in a government with gas prices above 20 kronor liters. Now the petrol price has increased to over 20 dollars a litre, and the Senterparte proposes to increase the taxes on diesel and petrol further next year. Why does the government propose to punish the drivers even harder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e965	Now we are in the year 2021. Then it is important to remember that in 2014 it was the Progress Party that was the second largest party to adopt the budget. In 2015, the Progress Party was the second largest party in government and had the Minister of Finance, and in 2016, the Finance Minister of the Progress Party proposed higher fees than what happened in eight red-green years. In 2017, 2018, 2019 and in 2020, the Progress Party has adopted the level of fees, and the level of fees people see around in Norway, the Progress Party has adopted – neither the Labour Party nor the Centre Party has been part of a budgetary settlement for the last eight years. So if the representative Listhaug is now shocked, indignant or headlong about the prices of Norwegian consumer goods, I would say that it is the power of the Progress Party over eight years that has led us to have the prices we have on different products in Norway. If you look at the government's draft budget: biodiesel, we're proposing to reduce the fees by 62 cents. We think it's wise because we know that in the case of normal cars, less and less consumption of diesel products will be achieved over time, while for example. in heavy goods transport, within installations – that part of the transport sector – it will also be used more in the future. This is why we reduce charges, for example. on biodiesel with 62 ears, which increased last year. The idea of the government, which is based on the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, is that we must be able to also use the charging policy to create new industries and new jobs in Norway – therefore this approach. In the case of those who depend on transport in everyday life, in everyday life, we do some heavy grips. We will reduce, among other things: Prices of the ferry because we believe it is important to link Norway together. We're starting to phase in a free ferry on the smallest connections and we've set aside $30 million. So let's start with that. We're improving the terms of the country's commuters, which is something like the Advance Party for some reason, when the Advance Party put in government with the Right, once and for all tightened up. Now it's getting better. A commuter who commutes Hamar-Oslo – that’s a thoughtful, good example from my own constituency – gets NOK 4 700 less in tax if the proposal to the Workers’ Party-Center Party government gets a majority in Stortinget, of course whether you’re driving a car or if you’re driving a train. It's a good system that helps bring down the transportation costs to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e974	When the Progress Party had a hand on the steering wheel, we reduced the car charges by 1.5 billion. kr. We made it cheaper to buy a car. What Battle Violence Vedum performs in his first budget is to make it much more expensive. We have seen desperate people all over the country who have ordered a new car and who are now being presented for an extra charge of up to NOK 80000. In addition, there is an increase in diesel and petrol taxes, which the voters were promised not to do. The Minister for Climate and Environment was recently in the Questionnaire and called it a sharp increase in the fees that will hit the drivers hard. Now not all people in Norway are commuters and can get these deductions. For many, this will sting heavily in the wallet. Why is the Council of State running away from its promises from the election campaign and making it simply more expensive for people to buy and drive a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e981	It is sometimes a bit interesting to listen to the representative, Mr Listhaug, because what is contained in the proposal from the Workers' Party-Center Party Government is that we propose 31 cents of a lower tax on diesel, which becomes a mixture of fossil and bio, than the Erna Solberg, who is the preferred budgetary partner of the Advance Party, wants. So we have a lower fee level than what Right wants. And when the Progress Party itself had the finance minister and presented its own proposal, Siv Jensen proposed an increase of 35 ør per litre in 2016. The pump price we see today is the desired level of the Progress Party, because they have been in and adopted those budgets. Then we've reduced traffic insurance charges, we're reducing ferry prices, we're improving commuter deductions, and we're going to do a lot of things to bind Norway together, because we're busy binding Norway together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e986	We have to conclude that the desired level of the Centre party is much higher than the 20 kroner that we now see. We have to draw that end, since you're proposing to increase. Yes, you suggest a lower fee increase than Erna Solberg, but it does very little for all the drivers who are already bleeding. This is the belly pad of the times, and I think it's strange that you're just trying to talk it out and owe it to previous governments when you're making suggestions about heavy tax cuts. Then you have to go into budget negotiations with SV, as we know hate the car, look at the car as a problem and believe that there is a T-Bahn, bus, car and tram throughout the country, which it does not. We're worried that this is going to be even more expensive. Can't it be an idea for the government to come to the Progress Party – let's sit down together to reduce the cost of the cars and the taxes on diesel and petrol?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e993	Let me first take the fuel prices: Fortunately, some of us are able to fill fuel when prices are not at the highest level. I can still get a lot of fuel under 16 kroner, because I am aware when I fill the tank. I think that is a good advice for everyone, that one goes with the market economy, and that there is competition in that market too, so that one does not allow the gas station chains to get too much of the profit. Because it varies a lot over a week. And then to a proven fact. What are important taxes for people? Now it's e.g. current. People are worried about now -- the power bill. There the government proposes to reduce the fees by 47 p.m. in January, February and March. – from the level adopted by the Progress Party. But when the Progress Party had the Minister of Finance, it was even higher level of fees. It went down a little bit when Jan Tore Sanner took over – please a little – and now we're reducing, because it was historically high. In our draft budget, it is a lower level of fees than the right-hand proposal, which the Progress Party has as its preferred partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1003	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In the context of the 2019 integration strategy, the Solberg Government stated that municipalities should avoid the settlement of refugees in areas with an immigrant share of more than 30 p.m., as well as areas with living conditions challenges, in order to counter segregation, create a good housing environment and promote good integration. In the Hurdal platform, the government writes that they "will avoid newcomers settling in areas with major living conditions challenges". This implies a change in the invitation to the municipalities not to settle refugees in areas with an immigrant share of more than 30 pst. ?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1012	Securing a spreaded buildup is important for us to be happy with the integration. What I think is an important reason why we've been happier with integration than many of our neighbouring countries is that we've settled them all over the country. Having scattered construction prevents segregation. It shows the value of shortages throughout the country, and it also suggests that a formative attitude through human encounters and not just through media outreachs. Where a cage has meaning, and if building follows ethnic and social dividing lines, we risk getting more distance from each other and leaning trust between the majority population and minorities. In order to prevent segregation and to promote integration, it is important that newly arrived refugees, as a general rule, are not settled in areas where there is a high proportion of immigrants, while it is important that they are not settled in areas with major living conditions challenges. It's not always that these two things are synonymous, but it's important sometimes to see them in context. I think it makes sense to have objective criteria that clearly focus on the rapid integration of newcomers. For 2022, the criteria are already established. They were in ours. For 2023, I will give an assignment to the IMDi to review the call criteria for constancy and to get their evaluations of those criteria from a professional point of view. It also applies to the 30 pst criterion. I have to admit that 30 pst. is not a sacred number for me – why not 31 pst. or 29.5 pst.? What I'm busy with is that we get the best possible effect, the fastest possible integration, that newly arrived refugees are able to be part of our working life and become taxpayers as soon as possible. The deadline for the IMDi to review the criteria from a professional point of view will be spring 2022, and after that I will decide on the 2023 construction. But as I said, I'm busy achieving good and fast integration of newly arrived refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1021	I also share the analysis to the Council of State on the importance of ensuring a continued spread of residence in Norway. It also thinks the Right is one of the most crucial things to achieve good integration. It is also important for me to stress that in the integration strategy of the Solberg government, this 30th century was not the most important thing for housing either. The main criterion was the capacity of municipalities, the ability of municipalities to integrate and then, of course, the labour market in the future. I am also pleased to receive professional advice for this in the future. What we've seen in some of the previous years is that not all municipalities have respected or followed up the calls made by the government, for example. not to reside in areas with a high proportion of immigrants. Would it be appropriate for the Council of State to take any action against municipalities if she were to come up with new guidelines in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1028	It is important that we have a good and close dialogue with the municipalities, so that we can secure a build-up after the intention, which then means rapid integration. The instrument we have in relation to municipalities is to encourage them to consider dimensions that can relate to immigrant share, living conditions challenges or other dimensions. But the municipalities have a right of self-determination, so that they have a degree of self-determination about the priorities they do within their own municipality. It is through the close and good dialogue with KS that we will ensure that the criteria laid down can best be followed up by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1033	It is good to have close dialogue with municipalities in the future, but the question arises if that dialogue does not lead: you have that kind of housing criteria, but you do not respect them. It may come back to the Council of States if it would prove to be a challenge in the future. I think it seems to be a good and broad consensus that we are still going to have a scattered settlement policy, and I think that is important. When I already have the Council of State here, I allow myself to ask a question that is partly on the page: Are there any major changes to the integration policy in the future, compared to the integration strategy and the recently adopted law of integration promoted by the government of Solberg in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1040	I'm not going to notify you of any major changes to mainstream integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1048	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘In Oslo, a trade union must organise at least 17,5 pst. by staff members at the level of the establishment in order to be entitled to negotiate, for example, working time, employment and holiday arrangements. Recently, the Right in Oslo City Council promoted a proposal to equalise all trade unions and give them the same rights regardless of size. Does the Council of State consider it right to grant equal rights to trade unions irrespective of the size of the trade union they are members of, or does she agree with the Oslo Labour Party in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1055	High levels of organisation and strong trade unions are at the heart of the Norwegian working life model. This means that the government will help to increase the level of organisation and strengthen the role of trade unions in the world of work. We have, among other things: proposed to double the trade union deduction over the next two years. It is clear that in this area, as in all others, size may have a bearing on representativeness. More in principle, the representative also deals with Molberg's question about the works of agreement. In the case of the 17.5.pst requirement, an agreement between the Municipality of Oslo and the employee organisations is established, which means that it is up to the parties to these agreements to determine its content. Now I have learned that respect for party cooperation is something that Right has not shown as its strongest side, nor when they are in government. They have not included the parties in selection work where it would be natural for the social partners to be involved. They have implemented impairments in the Work Environment Act, against clear warnings from a co-workers' side and sometimes with strong votes from employers' side. But the cooperation of the parties means that as Minister of Labour, I do not focus on how the parties in the Municipality of Oslo have put up their negotiating system, and who should be represented in the various negotiations. What the government is going to do is to continue the work on the many measures we have announced to strengthen the organised working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1062	Thanks for the answer. The right is primarily concerned with equalising those who are organised in a serious working life and then avoiding the favouritism of particular trade unions, which are largely part of the apparatus of the Workers' Party. The background to my question is that the Oslo Workers' Party voted against the proposal from the Right to equalise all trade unions in the capital. Co-decision and negotiating rights will continue to be reserved for the largest trade unions in Oslo. The working party is, as is well known, committed to increasing the level of organisation in Norway, to which the Council of State was committed, and a proposal to double the trade union deduction was also presented in the supplementary budget. When the Oslo Workers' Party votes against a proposal to equalise all trade unions, it seems almost a little that the desire to increase the level of organisation is reserved for the largest trade unions, and not for the small ones. Where does this favoritism of individual trade unions come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1069	The question is based on the wrong premiss. When the Labour Party and this government want to increase the level of organisation, it applies regardless of how well people are organized. But being organized, and having a high-level work life means something to all of us, it means something to wage development, it means something to trust, it means something to have a low level of conflict in our working life, and it also means something to our society's productivity. And it's true regardless of which employee organisation you choose to organize. What is the starting point of the question from the representative Molberg is the main agreement in the municipality of Oslo, and it may seem that the right will not respect an agreement between the parties. I have to admit that I'm wondering if Molberg and Right want to put the boundary in the main agreement a different place than 17.5 pst, which is the same between the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1076	I would like to point out that the E24 Council of State stated in October: ‘Those who contribute to countering trade organisation will have to do with me, and it is not safe for them to like it’. The fact that the Oslo Workers' Party wants to operate with such a barrier limit, on almost 20 p.m., before organized rights are granted, clearly means that smaller trade unions are being replaced, while the biggest ones are being favored. Now, the Council of State has been offensive to countering trade unionisation, and I am simply wondering whether we can expect the Council of State to take action to ensure the right to negotiate and to co-determination in Oslo for smaller trade unions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1083	I think it's pretty revealing to the Right that these questions are being asked. After all, the Oslo Labour Party is not operating with a limit; it is about the main agreement in the Municipality of Oslo, where one has clarified some boundaries. In other words, the 17.5 pst requirement is an agreement between the municipality of Oslo and the employee organisations, and it is up to the parties to decide on its content. It is not a political task – neither for me nor for the representative Molberg – to enter into individual elements of the contract. It is up to the parties to decide on it. And if the representative Molberg thinks it's wrong to set a limit in a contract work, that is to say it's wrong to set a limit on the size of the trade unions, then it also means that the representative Molberg believes that representativeness is completely meaningless. But even in this room one has chosen to set a limit, attaching to the barrier of which political party can be represented in this room and not. It doesn't mean anything to the political freedom of this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1091	‘The Hurdal Platform states that it is important to strengthen workers’ rights in a changing working life. Whole and permanent jobs shall be the general rule in Norwegian working life. It also states that a wish to remove general access to temporary employment, cf. § 14-9 (f) of the Environmental Protection Act. Will such removal also include advertising/subscription sellers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1098	Yes, if they're employees, they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1103	The starting point for this question is that a number of students have contacted them, among others. have this as a bijobb – a job to have an income while they are studying. In many cases, you can hit Fjordkraft or OneCall here on the street, where it says youth and sells a subscription. Maybe the company has chosen to do it that way because they don't see the possibility of having permanent employees who are engaged in that kind of sale. It is also stated in this platform that the intention is to tighten up the possibility of evading employers' responsibilities. Is it considered a bypass of employer responsibility that one chooses to have portfolio management in such a way that one hires students to do such a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1110	Before the right-wing government introduced the general access to temporary additions in 2014, there were students – even students who had been bijobbar. It was fine before that, and it's going to be fine when the intention is removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1115	I thank you for your answer. It was reassuring to hear that at least there should not be anything worse than it has been. Municipalities-Norway also have very many part-time positions. I clearly share the goal that it should be as much as possible in the entire position, but it is now that very many in the municipalities choose to have people in part-time positions to make tournaments jump, and some actually want to be in a part-time position. In this way, it is appropriate to know the timing of the implementation of such a notified review and, in the next context, to make it difficult to have such tour guides that are sometimes required to have a part-time position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1124	This government would like to make it possible to get more full-time jobs. What we're going to do, which is also mentioned in the Hurdal Platform, is to provide a full-time pot that makes it possible to get money for local, full-time projects. We will strengthen the right of priority to full time in the law. We will introduce a documentation requirement for employers that want to publish part-time settings, if they chose it instead of a full-time setting. There are some examples of tracks we want to work along. In addition, the Fuugner selection has made a number of recommendations relating to how to prepare the labour market and the employment situation in the law. It's been listening now until November 1st, and I look forward to following it up in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1134	‘The Government has announced on the Hurdal Platform and on its behalf an allowance notification 2.0. Can the government tell you how much time the government plans to start working with the message, and how much time it sees fit to send the message to the Stortinget?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1141	First, I would like to say that I have already received a written answer on the progress of the work on a new notification to the Stortinget on the quota system, from the representative, Mr Strifeldt. As I replied on 28 October, I have already started working on a new quota notification. The government has great ambitions for the further development of the fishing industry. This includes, inter alia: creating more secure all-year jobs on land, and it requires a varied fishing fleet. We still want sustainability and profitability. However, it is also important to pursue the rural policy objectives of fisheries legislation on employment and settlement in coastal communities. We have therefore said that we want to make a new quota notification. We are working on a plan for this work to ensure a good process in the future. Firstly, there is a need to look at some of the issues that the Solberg government did not target, where there is still a need for clarification. The distribution of structural gains is such a problem. Secondly, we're going to make sure that the quotas are distributed in a predictable and fairer way. So recruitment and equality will be a natural theme in the future. There are also other elements that it may be natural to include in the work. It will be important for me to have a good dialogue with industry in the work on the new allowance notification in order to ensure the necessary acceptance of operators’ business conditions. Furthermore, it will be an important objective to seek broad political anchoring in the Storting in order to ensure that industry is as stable as possible in the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1152	I thank you for your answer. The council already answered a follow-up question I had, linked to the process ahead – I also thank you for that. But finally, can the Council of States state the extent of this message? Or in another way: is it more about supplementing the existing message, making changes, or thinking that it might be a whole new message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1157	This is a priority task for the government. I want to ensure that there is sufficient time to draw up a good plan for further work. So I'm going to be able to contribute, by the way I answer here in Stortinget, that the questioning strategy is going to be as rational as possible. We have notified a quota notification of 2.0. There will be an independent notification, but it will also be so that much of the basic work in the allowance notification from the previous government will be useful in the work we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1164	So we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1172	This question, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1177	‘The Government proposes, in the additional protocol to the State budget, to reduce the discharge to the City of the Ship’s Tunnel, the largest infrastructure measure for maritime transport ever, by 365 million. kroner in 2022. Can the Council of State assure that the project will nevertheless be carried out in line with the timetable, construction start in 2023 and completion in 2026, and what will be the result for the project that the responsibility will now be transferred to a department without having to deal with the implementation of large infrastructure projects?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1184	As the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo refers to, the government in the supplementary number of the budget proposal has proposed to reduce the allocation to the City Ship Tunnel by 365 million. NOK 2022. I would like to stress that this does not affect the government's goal of implementing the project as quickly as possible. However, it has been shown that some time is needed to carry out the acquisition process. The contract conclusion is therefore postponed to 2023. It is important to put in place the necessary basic material. This reduces the risk of overruns and delays at a later stage. When the conclusion of the contract is delayed by an estimated six months, the construction start will naturally be delayed accordingly. It is premature to conclude how this will affect the time of completion, but costs, quality and time are important factors in the choice of contractor. With regard to the representative's question about the consequences of moving the project to a new department, I would like to state that the delay we are now talking about is independent of this move, and to the extent of the government change. As Minister for Fisheries and the Sea, I have been given responsibility for the Coastal Plant, such as: manage key infrastructure and services for safe and secure coastal shipping. The coastal works shall also be responsible for the construction of the Stad tunnel. I feel confident that the department has the necessary prerequisites to carry out this task in a good way. Furthermore, the department responsible for managing the department of the Coastal Works, including the follow-up to the work of the Coastal Works with the City Tunnel, is also transferred to my area of responsibility. The competence and capacity at ministerial level to follow-up the Coastal Plant are thus continued in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries. Then I will appropriately return to Stortinget when there is new and up-to-date information about the project City Ship Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1203	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I must be allowed to congratulate with responsibility for this historic project. In 2024 it is the 150th anniversary of the idea of the City Ship Tunnel, so at least we can celebrate it on the road towards construction start. But I find that there is currently no certainty about the time of completion. The Coastal Agency’s own websites say that one aims at completion in 2026. In a slightly cryptic press release in connection with the additional number, it says that the delay is not “corresponding to [...] delay in completion”, and then we have just now also received a written response from the government, which states correctly that what follows from the delay cannot be excluded that the project will only be completed in 2027. So I can see that it's uncertain about the completion. Then I would like to ask: can the Council of State assure that the necessary promises will come into the state budget in 2023, to ensure that we get going too fully by 2023 and get as fast progress as necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1212	It has been necessary to spend some time developing the basis for competition in order to reduce the risk of potential delays and overruns in the project. It is also desirable to use bulk masses from the tunnel project for the establishment of nutrient areas in the vicinity. The municipalities that want to do this need some time to carry out all the necessary planning processes. Then I must point out that the City Ship Tunnel was adopted in the National Transport Plan for the first time in 2013, under the previous red-green government, with the planned start in 2018. The delay from 2018 I think it will be difficult for me to stand in the Stortinget and take responsibility for it, as it happened under a government that Bjørlo's party either supported or put in. The delay, which is now half a year, became known to us shortly after we joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1221	It is true that a small start-up period was introduced into the second part of the NTP completely back in 2013, but I have to point out that it is after the job has been done to get the project from the second period to the first period, and then prioritized and completed for construction start. That job was done during the majority that was in the previous ageing period. I thank you anyway for the answer, and I think we won't be here anymore. I understand that it is now a goal to get started in 2023, that the tunnel will be completed either in 2026 or in 2027, and that the Council of State now provides the guarantees that can be given at that time. But I want to ask a short follow-up question. Now that the responsibility has been transferred, I'm assuming there's a point with that. Some of the points must be to see the location of the ship's tunnel in a larger context, by developing the effects of the tunnel and getting the greatest possible ringing effects to get more goods from road to sea, to connect the West and to take out all the major effects of this project. Can the Council of State say a little more about his ambitions now when he has been given responsibility for this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1232	It may not be the case that the reasons for the transfer of this task to the Minister for Fisheries and the Sea are specifically linked to the Urban Tunnel project. It's about this government wanting an overall approach to maritime policy, and we think we can get more, we think we can get synergies out, and having a comprehensive maritime policy under one responsible state council is a wise approach. Then the project City Tunnel will have a major impact on traffic in this area, and it will – as I see it – also open many new opportunities. Then we'll get back to the completion. I have said it several times, and I would like to repeat it: that delay of six months became known to me right after I joined. We're going to do what we can to get this project completed as soon as possible, and with the quality of the implementation that we can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1239	We go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1247	«In the Appendix to the State Budget, a full chapter is proposed. 164 item 73 Vulnerable groups, discontinued, and the funds of SEK 299.4 million. krones moved to cap. 170 entry 70 Civil society, used ‘in dialogue with civil society’. So the further distribution of funds is not clear. What was the reason for this redisposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1254	The government has great ambitions in development policy. We must fight poverty and improve societies. We're going to continue much of the best that previous governments have done before us – and in addition, trigger new energy where the results can be greatest. Progress in areas of investment such as climate adaptation, food security and renewable energy could lead to progress in other areas as well. That's why we've just suggested spending 500 million. kr more on food security and climate-smart agriculture and another half a billion kronor to ensure the poorest access to renewable energy. Because it is still those who are concerned with development policy – the poorest, the most vulnerable. There are still victims of child labour and forced marriages, persons with disabilities and all the other vulnerable vulnerable groups. The question is how best to take the measures that make it possible to get them out of poverty. I believe that we are achieving them best through a forward-looking development policy that contributes to positive social change and that strengthens the capacity of our partners to grow by our own strength, through a policy in which we work to change structures to bring about lasting change, a policy in which we promote democracy, women's participation, economic equality, decent working life and good health, because they are natural rights and create opportunities for development. It is in order to ensure such an overall approach rather than individual actions to individual groups in individual countries that the budget line for vulnerable groups is proposed to be terminated. This also frees funds for the main priorities of the government. All agreements and commitments entered into relating to the budget line being terminated shall be complied with. We shall continue to work towards modern slavery. Norway will continue to host the Global Disability Summit in February – and keep inclusion high on the agenda. These measures are not and do not fall under which budget line they are technically linked. Now we are entering into a close dialogue with non-governmental organisations that are eyes and ears and key promoters of assistance, on how our funds can best lead to possible good ringing effects and results, so that growth comes from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1267	I still do not fully appreciate the reason, other than watering out and transferring things to the climate and the environment. Let me ask: in the supplementary proposition, the government explains that the entire vulnerable group record should be closed, but that a smaller part should be re-disposaled to other items in order to meet the objective of helping vulnerable groups. In what way does the Council of State believe that disembarkation and redisposal will benefit vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1274	It is true that the budget line called Vulnerable Groups, which was established by my predecessors, is being terminated. All agreements entered into under the heading shall be continued under other headings of the budget. Agreements with civil society are being moved to the post of civil society, where we believe it is more natural to belong, also in order to provide a better overview of the government's efforts. I would just like to stress that this does not mean depriving existing initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1279	Let me follow up with the following question: The government does, as I see it, something remarkable on the development budget. The government is proposing a large cut of 1.5 billion. NOK 200 million for emergency aid. kr to the World Food Programme and – perhaps most dramatic of all – a huge cut of 662 million. kr for education. Common to all of these cuts is that vulnerable groups are hit, and that assistance is turned away from those who need it the most. How can the government defend such a conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1284	As I explained in my first post, the government is turning its efforts into areas where we know that it can create positive ring-effects and lasting changes in society. This is why, among other things: climate adaptation and food safety raised high. There is no claim to what can be defined as a vulnerable group. Therefore, I would like to stress that all our assistance goes to the poorest, the vulnerable, but we have another and – I believe – more appropriate device for our assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1301	This question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1309	‘State councils have claimed to increase fuel prices, more than a tripling of CO2 taxes, the ban on petrol and diesel cars in single zones in the cities, the electrification of the base leading to more expensive electricity and online rentals to people most and the business community, and the massive construction of wind farms against the people’s will, such as for example the windmills on Haramsøla in More and Romesdal, do not hurt the people most and the business community their everyday lives. Can the Council of State explain how this is possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1316	The council is a little uncertain whether he recognizes himself in the description of what he should have said, but I will now answer anyway as best I can. The man-made climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. The sixth main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that we need to have immediate, rapid, comprehensive and sustained emissions reductions globally if we are to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. Norway must take its share of responsibility. The government has said in the Hurdal platform that we will cut Norwegian emissions by 55 pst. by 2030, compared to 1990, as a sub-measure against net zero emissions by 2050. So this is a level that is about the same as most comparable countries have gone on. Climate objectives are to be achieved and the economy must be geared towards becoming increasingly renewable, circular and sustainable. It is important that we carefully assess how our actions and instruments affect different actors in society. It must be more expensive to pollute, but it must also be easier and more profitable to leave out. We have announced a gradual increase in the CO 2 tax to signal that it will be worthwhile to make climate-friendly choices in the years up to 2030. The government has also taken action in terms of social and geographical justice in climate policy. Since many continue to experience that they do not have a real alternative to diesel and petrol cars, the government has provided a budget that reduces the user charge and increases the commuting deduction to limit the impact on the drivers, as well as creating charging stations in the municipalities that do not yet have it. Several cities want to create zero-emission zones to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In particular, Bergen and Oslo have requested this. It is not necessarily a ban on petrol and diesel cars, it may also be charging zones. The Ministry of Transport has commissioned the State Road Administration to evaluate alternatives. One alternative concerns the relaxation of the conditions for setting up low-emission zones for climate reasons, another to assess the basis for prohibited zero-emission zones for climate reasons. Zone rules shall be first tested in the form of pilot projects in Oslo and Bergen and the main road network shall be excluded. The Hurdals Platform’s climate change objective covers the entire economy, including the quota sector. Emissions from the Norwegian oil and gas industry are to be reduced. In the Hurdal platform, the government has signaled that it will provide further electrification of oil and gas fields on the Norwegian base. At the same time, renewable energy shall be ensured for new and existing mainland industries. Electrification increases power consumption and will thereby affect the balance of power and the prices of power. The Hurdal Platform also states that an Energy Commission should be set up to identify energy needs and propose increased energy production in Norway, and that an overall plan should be drawn up for Norwegian hydropower, wind power, solar power and other energy and infrastructure development that requires concession. We're doing this. This government is concerned that climate policy should be both effective and fair. Conversion takes time, and we have to give all people the opportunity to make climate-friendly choices, regardless of their economy and their place of residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1340	There were a lot of measures, but I kind of think the opinion of the people is that there's a lot of things people don't understand. What I don't understand is that when you want people to run environmentally friendly etc., why does the fees on hybrid cars increase so much that people now have to go out of the contracts they have entered into on a new car for next year? This means that people don't want to buy hybrid cars, they want to continue with diesel and petrol cars, because electric cars aren't too many in the districts, given how far they're going. What does the Council of State achieve by making it so much more expensive for people actually to think about the environment and buy a hybrid car?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1345	Hybrid cars have been a bridge technology whose time is now running out. The electric cars have gradually gained both such a good range and such a good range of use – you can get relatively reasonable electric cars with a range of more than 500 km, hanging and space for the whole family for most people – that when we also get charging stations in place, it is for most people. Then it is important to know that a hybrid car is not a particular climate action. It can go a little bit on power, but all the time it's running on a petrol engine, it pulls a big battery that makes the total emissions equal or larger than a traditional petrol car. Here we have maintained the proposal from the previous government to change the charging structure for hybrid cars, because we believe that the time has now come to stimulate people to buy clean, genuine, zero-emission cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1352	It's like I have an electric car myself, and I come from a district where it's actually not 0 or 1 degree all year long -- it could be both 20 and 25 minus, and then it's only half of the distance I can run with that electric car. Not everyone can afford an electric car just below 1 million. kr, like the cars that go 600 to 700 km today, which are down to half in winter. It's far from everyone in the population who has the ability to do it. Diesel and petrol cars will be entirely decisive for most people in large parts of the country still, and it's not like the electric cars can handle it. Is the Council of State in agreement that we actually have winter in this country here and that it is a completely different effect on the electric cars in winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1359	The Council of State can confirm that there is winter in Norway and that the range of electric cars goes down in winter. Therefore, it is important to have a charging infrastructure adapted to increasingly fast-charging cars, and ever closer networks of charging stations solve the special problem we have in winter in Norway. We are aware that not all people are able to buy an electric car right now. That is why we have also partly shielded the price of petrol and diesel from the huge increase in the CO 2 tax itself, because we understand that it will take some time before all people are there. But the hope is that in the private car market by 2025 only new, completely emission-free cars will be seen. It will also mean that all of them, most of them used cars a few years old now, are electric cars, so you can go into the electric car market at all price levels, really. I think the technology goes so clearly in the direction that there's no particular cause for concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1369	It is then established in Stortinget’s Question Time that we have at least one season in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1377	‘Enova seems to support most large-scale signalling projects during the last period, while measures for owner-occupiers and small-scale measures are not particularly supported. Can the Council of State clarify whether it is such as to understand that the purpose of Enova has changed, and that it has now become so that Norwegian households are more, via electricity billing, like a collection model from private electricity consumers, to mainly support large-scale industry and business activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1384	Households and consumers play an important role in the transition to the low-carbon society. Enova shall therefore make available annually 300 million. kr to actions by households and consumers to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to the migration to the low-emission society. This allows households and consumers to participate in climate change. That's an increase of 50 million. kr from the previous agreement, and more than ever this means more money to support the development of e.g. climate-neutral materials, self-production of electricity, increased flexibility of the energy system and changed behaviour in transport and consumption. In addition, in the supplementary budget number, we have proposed to increase the allocation to Enova by 100 million. kr, to provide support for electric car quick chargers. This will make it easier to choose climate-friendly transport solutions and facilitate the increased prevalence of electric car use in all parts of the country, which we also addressed in the previous questions. We have ambitious targets in climate policy and are about to switch to a low-carbon society in a short time. This change requires enormous efforts, especially on actors with large emissions today. We have limited resources that must be given priority. The eating of Enova as a climate action reflects this fact. The aim of Enova is to help achieve Norway’s climate commitments and contribute to the transition to the low-carbon society. It's something that benefits the whole community. Through, inter alia: Enova shall assist and assist innovative actors willing to take the risk of developing a more climate-friendly industry. Actors who want to develop solutions need to be risk-absorbed. When the projects are large, the risk and the need for support will be similar. However, it is not that Enova only supports large-scale projects. Of the projects they supported in the period 2017-2020, 5440 out of 6 633 – or 82 pst. – commitments of less than 1 million. kr. Enova has, among others: supported more than 3600 electric vans in the last year, enabling small enterprises to choose climate-friendly transport as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1395	It is good to hear that more money will be allocated to this. But now we're already in November, and when we spoke at the end of October, Enova had only paid 100 million. NOK 400 million. NOK paid – with 300 million. kr which is then to be disposed of to private households. At the same time, from 1 July, state-owned Enova removed and reduced support for several popular energy saving measures, while increasing the priority of measures such as emission-free construction sites at the expense of the measures we are calling for. Does the Minister feel that this level of payment to households — and the priority of the funds — is acceptable and desirable?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1400	That's how we talk about an agreement period of four years. During this period of the agreement, Enova shall use EUR 1,2 billion. NOK 300 million. NOK 4 times – which goes directly to subsidies to households and consumers. There has been an under-use in this item – that’s quite right – one has only spent 155 million. kr so far, or a little over half of the 300 million. NOK which should have been used in 2021. But this is a fund provision, so that money hasn't gone away. That really means that the good news is that there is more money available to those who want to apply in 2022, 2023 and 2024, because the money is available for this purpose. What we have been informed about from Enova is that there have been corona-related and other reasons why there has been somewhat less application and somewhat slower extradition. But the money is to be spent, and my assumption of course is that Enova uses the sum they have just received for households and consumers, until what it is granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1405	I appreciate hearing what the minister says. This is what we are going to do, because we have received opposite signals from private households and several other actors – both in the construction industry and the like – that there have been primarily performance projects that have been prioritised. During the previous ageing period, the Minister, as a representative of the Energy and Environment Committee, proposed that all the money paid by households in the contribution to the Energy Fund should go to support domestic action. Does the Minister still mean what he meant then, and will the Minister therefore instruct Enova when giving a new letter of assignment or a supplementary letter of assignment, stressing that all the money paid is to be spent on household activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1412	To underline this, the money that has been allocated for this purpose should go for this purpose, and I expect Enova to follow it up by making payments based on that amount to households and consumers. Moreover, I support the main direction in the development of Enova, which has been a movement over time towards driving technology development. This means that once technologies have matured enough and reasonably enough in the market, the need for aid will gradually be reduced, because, of course, if the cost of action has fallen sharply, the need for support for the measure will also decrease. That's a little bit of the point of technology development. You get better technology, lower prices per unit, and it will eventually have consequences. It explains some of the failures of what is correctly described as formerly popular schemes. But my main message is that the money allocated to households and consumers to save energy is to be used for that measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1417	We go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1425	Question 20, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for the Economy, has been transferred to Minister for Climate and Environment Espen Barth Eide, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1430	‘By 2023 Norway, together with Papua New Guinea and Turkey, is the only countries in the world which are opening up to the dumping of marine mining waste, with the adverse effects it brings to vulnerable fjords and marine environments. Does the Council of State see as current policy the granting of new permits for the dumping of mining waste at sea during the forthcoming flooding period?’ [[sea deposits]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1437	It is true, as the representative Bjørlo says, that there are few countries that have landfills at sea and in fjords, but then there are also few countries that have the same topography as Norway, with deep fjords suitable for landfill. Both marine and terrestrial landfills have environmental consequences, and on a general basis we cannot claim that landfills on land are always better than marine landfills. Each case has to be assessed in concrete terms. A concrete assessment has also been made in those cases where mining permits have been granted under the Pollution Act. Based on a comprehensive knowledge base, the environmental impact of maritime landfills is carefully assessed before the permits are granted. As part of the pre-authorisation assessments, alternatives to the marine deposition of tailings are also considered. Many environmental technologies use metals, and access to mineral raw materials is a prerequisite for success in the green shift. Among other things, many minerals are needed for increased electrification of the transport sector and increasing quantities are needed. For example, an electric car needs three times as much copper as a conventional car. Environmentally strict regulation of mining can thus contribute to the establishment of a sustainable society where materials can contribute to technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In any assessment of mining and possible landfill, we need to make a thorough and concrete assessment. This will also apply to the evaluation of any new mining project in Norway. By means of a permit, we can provide a good framework for the operation with environmental monitoring, emission control and reporting requirements, while at the same time monitoring the operation of the mines by the Directorate for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1448	I notice at least that this is one of maybe more areas within the nature protection field where, in my opinion, we see a change to the negative from the previous government to this. The government of Solberg was, after the left impression, clear that dumping mining waste at sea belongs to the past. Now the Council of State confirms that this government will not consistently say no to it, but will consider it on a case-by-case basis. In an international perspective, it's quite eye-catching. In 2016, the International Congress for the Protection of Nature, the IUCN Congress, has asked all States to ban the landfilling of mining waste at sea for new mines as soon as possible. Chile, one of Norway’s topography countries, has now decided to stop this 2023 practice. I'd like to challenge the Council of State a little bit clearer about this, when the opinion expressed by the Council of State is so little spread internationally, to put it a little diplomatically. Does he see that this can be a re-exampleing problem for Norway internationally in the new green economy we are going to enter, where we are some of us that we need to impose strict environmental requirements in all areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1455	I will answer yes to that question. It's important that we have to be able to answer properly, honestly and with good facts on the choices we make. My point was that if it is the case that the Environment Directorate, which is our top professional authority, believes that in a very specific case sea deposit is better than land deposit, it is the environmental assessment. Then you have to be able to accept that this is the correct assessment. But I agree that this requires clear and good answers, as it is a trend – it is correctly described – away from maritime landfill internationally. So I support that. However, it would also not be good for environmental policies to refrain from the action that is considered to be the most environmentally friendly, because they have to live up to an international trend based on other types of topography than what we actually have, as long as our environmental authorities believe they are in favour of the recommendation they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1464	I think only I can see that in this area the Left Party and the Labour Party – the Centre Party are not in agreement. In the international climate we have – where the Council of State confirms that this is a practice that is little used and is becoming even less used internationally – we think that Norway should be clear here. I think it's going to be a case-by-case problem for Norway in the long run if we keep this practice. I want to ask the Council of State another question. It has been said in the Hurdal Platform that one will consider introducing a type of landfill charge in general, as an instrument for getting the most environmentally friendly practice for the use of waste from mines, which I believe will be an enormously important area in the future. I think it is right to introduce this type of charge. Can the State Council state anything more about the progress of that work? Can we expect some rapid clarifications to put pressure on the industry that landfilling and landfilling are something we need to phase out as quickly as possible? We have to use all of the resources available, as it is mined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1471	It is a very general part of both climate policy and environmental policy that we get into a circular economy, where the most resources are used again, and as much as possible are deposited, incinerated or disposed of by other means, but go back into circulation. Then, as the representative rightly points out, we have said that we want to find a solution with a charge of, for example, landfill, and actually on all other so-called externalities, as it is called – the natural costs that have not previously had a price but that must now receive it. So I can answer yes. We will take this with us in the great work of following up the work of the previous government with the circular economy and tightening it further, in the sense that we need to get up the rate of recycling and bring down what can no longer be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1476	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1484	This question, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Local and District Affairs, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1489	‘Senterpartial and Labour Party-led Ålesund municipality plan to cut 108 institutional sites, which are among the statutory services in a municipal operation. At the same time, the Centre Party and the Labour Party are planning to spend $240 million on an unregulated urban package against the people's will, and they have plans for a bathing land in cooperation with the Right. It was claimed in the election campaign that the Center Party was for services «near people», and for the Labour Party it was «normal people’s turn». Older people in Ålesund are common. Will the Council of State intervene in the Central Party and Labour Party controlled Ålesund, so that the elderly are not deprived of priority in favour of unregulated services?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1496	A living local democracy is central to this government. Local democracy has a self-esteem, but a decentralised response adapted to local conditions and needs also provides the best services for the population overall. At the same time, it gives us more well-being for each krona than if national authorities were to decide in detail how to carry out tasks. As former rapporteur, I know that as a local politician, there are many demanding balances, but I trust that our local elected representatives – regardless of party – will do what they think is best for their citizens in the framework of laws and regulations. Furthermore, municipalities and county councils are autonomous levels of government which cannot be overestimated without a legal basis. It is therefore not possible to intervene in local priorities either, as the representative Sve calls for through his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1503	But the Council of State agrees that it is reasonable to ‘discriminate’ that it seems to be becoming ordinary people in Ålesund's turn to pay sky high fees for renovation, increase water and sewerage costs, increase property taxes and, in fact, 3.7 billion. Tolls on the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1508	I'm a little surprised if the representative Sve really believes that the municipal minister should answer for different priorities in the country's 356 municipalities and 11 county municipalities. I don't see it as my task to answer for the local priorities. On the contrary, I trust that local democracy makes wise choices on behalf of its citizens. I am sure it was a policy which the representative Sve also appreciated when he was rapporteur in Stranda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1513	I note that the Council of State cannot instruct, but the Council of State also has our spokesmen. The question is whether he can't take a phone call to his party colleagues in the Central Party and the Labour Party in Ålesund and maybe give them some good advice on how to run the municipality best possible and prioritize the good services, because I think we who have our spokesmen have experience using the money where it's important for most people. So maybe a phone?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1518	There's different views of what's important to people. The representative Sve probably had his reasoning when he started a big ski project in his municipality – hardly considered as a legal task either, but he did so because he thought it was a wise priority for his municipality. That the municipality had financial problems afterwards, could hang out with many things. No, I'm not going to call the local government to give my opinion on local policy priorities. I trust local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1525	Then we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1533	My question is: ‘It is now the wish of a small group of residents of the old Forsand to limit the entire old municipality. On 4 January 2021, the State Council of Astrup replied to one of the residents of Forward that it is wise to allow new Sandnes to work and give the time needed to develop the new municipality. Does the Council of State regard this as a frontier adjustment when the Stortinget has, on two occasions, agreed to the voluntary merger and supports this or the subdivision page?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1542	Former Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Nikolai Astrup asked the Governor of Rogaland to carry out a border adjustment between the municipality of Sandnes and the municipality of Strand. The mission was given on the basis of a citizens’ initiative from residents in the Forsand area. The State Manager’s investigation shall provide information on the relevant conditions for the assessment of the implementation of a border adjustment. Under the law of differentiation, different procedural rules relate to different types of border changes, including border adjustments and divisions. As part of its investigation, the State Manager has therefore been asked to assess whether the limit adjustment applied for can be treated as a limit adjustment or as a split. This is important for both who has the right of initiative and who has the right to take decisions in the case. I want the State Manager of Rogaland to work on the investigation, in line with the mission given by my predecessor. The State Manager’s investigation will form the basis for assessing whether a limit change should be made and how the case should be further addressed, and I do not want to pre-treat the application now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1551	I thank the Council of State for the answer and notice that one is open because this can be both a border adjustment and a division. The council said a little bit about what's the difference between the two. Mainly, a limit adjustment is a matter for the Council of State to decide, while a division must go to Stortinget if the municipalities are not some. This is very important for the inhabitants of Sandnes to get clarity. It's probably pretty obvious that this is not a limit adjustment. This is a rematch on the community reform, where it was a voluntary merger. This is a division and should therefore come to Stortinget. In addition, Stortinget has, on two occasions, a position on the Sandnes/Forsand merger in its time. So I think it's a little too complicated that one just leans back and let the government administrator figure it out. Is it not the Council of State that when the Storting has taken a position on this twice before, it is natural that it is the Stortinget and not the Ministry that will decide it this time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1558	As I said, it depends on what is the right legal basis here. It is among those in Rogaland who have been asked to give their assessment. It is true that there are differences in the treatment of border adjustment and sharing. If it is not the Council of State that decides on a border adjustment, it is at least the King of the Council of State. This also applies when sharing, unless the municipality itself disagrees. Then it has to go to the Stortinget. But I will now wait first for the investigation that the State Manager has been commissioned by my predecessor to carry out, and will not, as I said, give a more detailed assessment of the matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1563	I thank you again for your answer. I don't expect to get another answer even if I ask the question in a new way, but I can site the Central Party's own municipal government representative in Sandnes, who is very clear that the Central Party locally believes that there has been a quite legal merger and that they stand by the decision and do not want to use the argument that the outgoing municipal minister used against the State administrator. So my question is: will the Council of State still listen to the local signals – also targeted by the Central Party – that this is a counter-reform, and that it is therefore natural, if it becomes an initiative, that it is presented to the Stortinget and not decided in Oslo by the King of State Council – that it will listen to the local signals and be presented to the Stortinget, if the government, against the local wishes, wants to complete the process that the former Minister of Municipal Affairs has seen?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1570	I would first like to stress that I am on the same line as former municipal minister Nikolai Astrup, who wrote in his letter to the municipality of Sandne that he had only taken a decision that the investigation could be conducted, did not decide whether a border adjustment should be made. In addition, the letter to the State Manager in Rogaland states that the municipality of Sandne and the municipality of Strand will have their opinion on the matter. Moreover, municipalities themselves have to consider whether it is necessary to obtain views from citizens on the proposal for border adjustment. However, the initiative on border adjustment has been in line with the law relating to citizens’ initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1578	‘The main reason for the purchase by the State of consultancy services is the need for peak competence for a shorter period of time. The Hurdal platform says that the government wants to cut down on consulting in the state by developing this competence itself. Can the Council of State respond to how much this will cost and how will this affect innovation in the public sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1585	The high consumption of consultants purchased from the private market may be an indication that the public has left too much of its business to the private market. In 2020, central government spent 12 billion. NOK to purchase consulting services. This represents a consulting rate of almost 10 pst. of the total salary budget. However, the variation is great, from a zero to many hundreds of percent consultants. In some enterprises, external consultants represent both systems planning, procurement, construction, operation and evaluation. This means that the enterprise may lose control of its core competence and activities. At the other end of the scale, we have businesses that have built up internal competence environments that can play a leading role in operating and developing the organisation, for example. the strong IT environments in the tax haven and Nav. Several others can learn from these businesses. Small businesses may only need shelf goods and may benefit from purchasing them instead of hiring costly consultants to develop tailor-made solutions. Aid for procurement can be provided by enterprises through different types of purchasing cooperation, both in the municipal and state sectors. The State Purchasing Centre negotiates framework agreements for State enterprises and develops a cloud service market for which municipalities can also participate. In the Hurdal platform, we say that we should cut consulting expenses, but it does not say that we should cut out consultants. There will still be a need for the public purchaser to purchase consultancy services, but this government has clearly indicated the direction to be taken: government establishments will reduce the use of consultancy services. As an immediate effect, this would result in savings for businesses. At the same time, the aim is to build up internal competence. Through greater control of its own core activities, enterprises will also provide the basis for developing services for the benefit of its citizens. There is a high potential for innovation in the public sector by focusing more on cooperation and partnerships across public enterprises, between municipalities and countries, between different departments and through wise interaction with private business, for example. through innovative public acquisitions. This government has confidence that public sector professionals have the competence to develop user-oriented services. By investing in developing skills in the public sector, including purchasing skills, we believe that employers in the administration will attract good professionals. This is where we lay the foundation for an innovative public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1598	This was an expected response, not least when the Council of State outlines the use of consultants. Then it's a little amazing – but at the same time positive from our side – to see that the government in its additional proposition cuts in the consultancy with about 40 million. kr, even if the Council of State is concerned about 12 billion. kr, and that this applies to the purchase of services in the communication industry in the additional proposal. We have always thought that it would be very unfortunate and would delay a number of critical, important projects if the government had actually chosen to do what the Center Party in particular talked a lot about in the election campaign. Can it now be said that the government – from writing this Hurdal platform to providing a responsible budget, where one must also take into account that the efficiency must continue – has discovered some new information that had not been created when the platform was created?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1605	I'm really not sure if I understood the question. After all, it must be pleased with the representative Kapur that we despite all the cuts in the public procurement of consulting services and the way in which the public sector operates cheaper. Let me also refer to a sample that recently presented its position, Norway, towards 2025, led by Jon Gunnar Pedersen, among others. former State Secretary in the Right. Linked to ICT solutions in the public sector, which is one of the major areas where much is purchased, the sample writes: ‘The selection has noted the successful results made visible in the digital operating models within, among others, Nav, Altin, Router and UK Government Digital Service. This has been achieved, inter alia, by building up competent internal IT environments, which focus on understanding user needs, providing benefits and quality and reducing costs, and which will also be competent purchasers of consultancy services. Following the evaluation of the sample, these successful results are something that other public enterprises can also learn from.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1615	In fact, I think the Council of State really does understand the question I've asked. It is also a pleasure for me to see that the Council of State and the Government have gradually understood the need to have top expertise in public, that it is not always public itself that has the right answers, and that by involving external competence, projects can be developed both faster and more reasonably. We all agree that some of the general public expenditure should go down. Therefore, it has been very strange to have a centre party that has opposed all reforms that can contribute to efficiency improvement. One of the reforms that also contributes to lower public costs is the ABE reform. There too, we see that the government chooses to continue the reform even if it has been opposed. It is a pleasure for us to see, but I would like to hear the Council of State elaborate on how to come to the realization that it is a fine reform to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1622	With regard to the ABE reform, the government has said in the Hurdals platform that it will be replaced by more targeted public sector cuts, and we will return to that in the future budget. But once again, the representative, Mr Kapur, must also be pleased, I hope that, in addition to the ABE reform for 2022, which was in the budget, and which is being continued, the use of consultants will be cut further. Let me then just stress that it is not about cutting out all the consulting services, but using less than today – both to actually save money and in addition to being able to develop their own competent environments internally, for example. in the case of ICT solutions, such as: is recommended in the government’s selection of Norway by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1630	‘In 2006, Minister of State Åslaug Haga promised to move 6,000 jobs from the State to the municipalities. We know the outcome. However, the Solberg government moved 1,650 annual works to the county councils and together road administration as well as the relocation and re-establishment of over 1,200 jobs outside Oslo. What are the ambitions of the Council of State for further necessary relocation of tasks and jobs to municipalities and counties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1637	The government has clear ambitions for localisation policy. I see no reason why state jobs must necessarily lie in the big cities when there are so many competent people around the country. The country has many tasks to do, and the country has many well-functioning labour markets. Localisation of state jobs is one of several instruments that I want to implement in the field of enhanced district policy. Government jobs represent an important contribution in many labour markets. These are stable jobs that are not characterised by economic fluctuations to the same degree as private ones. Public employment expands the labour market by making the supply of jobs more varied. In this way, government localisation policy is one of several instruments for building strong environments of expertise that can in turn provide the basis for further growth, settlement and relocation. In the government's district policy, work and well-being are the most important thing. We're doing a good job of putting into practice how this is going to be followed up. Localisation policy is part of this discussion. Overall, we are committed to building strong environments of competence across the country through a more even distribution of public jobs. We want government activities to be organised in such a way that they are as close to the population as possible. We want a better city-land balance. New state jobs shall be left outside Oslo unless obvious reasons warrant otherwise. Sectoral policies may have unintended consequences for rural areas. Policy changes take place gradually, and the sum of a number of small changes can affect districts negatively over time. To remedy this, we write in the Hurdals platform that we will introduce a rule on regional impact assessments of all reforms, and the requirements to assess rural policy considerations should be comprehensive in public administration. The work for a good regional balance of state jobs is something the government should do jointly. This is important in order to avoid negative consequences in terms of job losses and service locations in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1648	The Minister of State of the Central Party of the Bondevik I government set up a task-sharing committee, and in 2000 they presented new regions with more power. It was to replace the 19 counties. Mr Stoltenberg II continued his work in 2005, and Mr Haga proposed nine counties at the time. However, the end of the show was that the Stortinget said no to regional reform. Haga then remarked that there will be no decentralization of power when the Storting does not want it. What does Gram think of the work in which the Central Party in its time brought down great prestige, and why is it that the Center Party now believes that more regions than what we have today will give a greater degree of decentralization of power?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1653	With regard to county structure and tasks, I would first of all like to point out that I can see to a small extent that the task done by the previous government, not least with the regional reform, proved in some way a changed structure in the county municipalities. The tasks that were transferred, which were much fewer than what was promised, could well be handled within it – let's say – the old state structure. That's the one. The second is the government's view of municipal and county structure. It should be formed in close interaction with and based on local democracy and not by coercion against local government and county councils, which happened in the previous period, and which we believe was very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1660	It is absolutely necessary in the years to come to look at more decentralization of power. The centre party used a lot of the election campaign and the years in the opposition to convince voters that there is a need for both jobs and tasks. I hear from the Council of State that he is constantly talking about new tasks for the state, i.e. not existing state jobs. Is it a deliberate choice that you don't want to move to existing workplaces, just look at new ones – that you want more government jobs to flourish? I then understand that the ABE reform will be completed. I would like to ask the Council of State once again: will there be problems in adding new tasks when you want to disband part of the counties at the same time? And anyway, will the Council of State take up the thread from the battle of the central parties at one time and propose additional heavy tasks to the county councils, or this becomes an impossible task, for example. for counties that might have 74,000 after a while?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1667	The government has an ambition to develop local democracies through the decentralisation of tasks to municipalities and county municipalities. We would like, among other things: consider transferring the functions of the state administrator which are not related to supervision, control or complaint to the county councils – soil protection except. And we want to strengthen the county councils as community developers. In this way, in several areas, the Hurdal Platform has pointed to actions that will also contribute to a different division of jobs, such as: the maintenance of a decentralised education offer in the university and higher education sectors, with local educational centres. Another example is the ambition to maintain a more decentralised police structure. So there are several areas where we see it's natural to add more jobs and tasks around the country in order to achieve a better regional balance of state employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1676	Question 15 has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1684	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The Government of Støre has cut the allocation of the grant scheme for smaller urban areas by 30 million. krones. That is, there are no funds for this scheme in 2022. Instead, it's set at 10 million. crowns of a pilot scheme for building growth agreements. Does this mean that someone is now giving priority to urban areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1693	I can reassure the representative that the government has not in any way intended to deprioritize the urban areas. There are several points in the Hurdal platform that underpin. Of major transport issues, I would like to mention that we are continuing the work on urban growth agreements. This means that we will follow up on the agreements concluded with the four major urban areas. Here we also go further than the previous government in our bet. We will increase the state contribution in the so-called 50-50 projects to 70 pst. Of course, the device of such a system must come back to us. We're also eager to start urban growth negotiations with the next five urban areas of size, i.e. cities like this. Tromsø, Kristiansand, etc. Nor has the government planned to wind up the new grant scheme for the next urban areas of the smaller category, namely Bodø, Haugesund, Ålesund, Vestfoldbyen and Arendal/Grimstad. However, we have not found a basis for prioritising funds for that purpose in 2022, but it does not mean that the scheme as such has been terminated. We also welcome the fact that these smaller urban areas want zero growth as a target for their urban areas and want to contribute to achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1706	The previous government had set aside $30 million. kr in the next year’s budget to launch grants to smaller urban areas for climate-friendly and environmentally friendly urban development and good accessibility. The measures should have been invested in walking and cycling routes and collective actions. This is now removed without any reason. It is scrapped and replaced by another system – it is produced as a take-out of the smaller urban areas and replace it with a system to go to municipalities with population decline, weak employment and a thin nutrient base. What is to be set up is a pilot scheme of rural growth agreements, which has been deprived of the Minister for Transport and added to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. A budget of 10 million is proposed. kr. Is it the case that there is more importance for the organisation of bicycles, corridors and public transport in these small municipalities than in the press areas, which are the smaller urban areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1713	I repeat that we have not intended to scrap this scheme. The scheme for these urban areas we are talking about is about approx. 600 million. kr that has been set aside in the NTP framework, and we will of course come back and follow up on these measures. With regard to the scheme that Greece refers to, I expect that he is aware of this 10 million. kr shall be used to promote growth and nutritional development in District Norway. I guess the opposition isn't in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1720	No, the opposition is not against growth and development. What we are against is the uncertainty that is now created in Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal, Grimstad, Tønsberg, Sandefjord and Larvik. They had now found themselves in the shoes and were ready to start up, and it was planned that at least two urban areas would start in 2022. So the council says one should increase from 50 pst. until 70 p.m., prioritize the five cities behind and these areas. So the question is, where is the Council of State going to pick up all these billions? It's a bit of a alarming sign that the first government council is contributing to, is removing 30 million. kr set off and create uncertainties in these smaller urban areas. What will be the climate impact of this measure that the government is scrapping, if one does not go further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1725	I remember that this is a small amount of a total of 600 million. kr. What we're really saying clearly is that there's a vulnerable start-up on this, so I think the representative can take it easy in that we're going to be able to achieve these climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1733	‘The Hurdals platform states that ‘as a general rule, Avinor shall operate airports’. Before the elections, the Council of State wrote a letter of reader stating that ‘Avinor should buy the terminal building at Rygge civil airport’, that ‘Smoking should become the take-off aerodrome for Gardermoen as soon as possible’, and that society can ‘save large costs of Avinor taking responsibility for Rygge and using Smoking as a relief aerodrome’. What makes the Council of State think that Smoking is better suited as a commercial airport today than it has proved to be now?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1740	Østfold Arbeiderparti has wanted Moss airport, Rygge to become a relief airport for Oslo airport Gardermoen. It follows from the Hurdal platform that the government wants to set up an independent selection to look at future capacity and needs of Oslo airport Gardermoen. It follows that the work of the sample will form the basis for the government’s conclusion on the issue of a third runway. In a previous answer to written questions from Stortinget, I have replied that I will consider whether the issue of Smoking as a take-off aerodrome for Gardermoen should be part of the mandate in this selection. The economic situation of Avinor and the traffic base of Gardermoen and Rygge will be some of the elements that will be considered when drawing up the mandate for this sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1749	As mentioned above, the Council of State wrote that Avinor should purchase the terminal building at Rygge civil airport. There are some of us who believe that Avinor will own all the airports in Norway. How does the Minister of Transport view the ownership of Torp Sandefjord Airport? Should Avinor acquire ownership, or does the Minister consider the current ownership structure to be more appropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1754	The council has not stated that Avinor should buy Rygge, but a candidate for the Stortinget has stated it at an earlier time. I see no reason for us to change the ownership structure of Sandefjord Airport. It exists today and is a good addition to the airport offer in the East, and that's the way it is, of course, also with and offloads the Gardermo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1759	It was reassuring to hear. I've been following developments at Sandefjord Airport for many years and seeing how vulnerable the operation of the airport is. The profit is marginal and the investment and operating costs are high. It's not just the corona that's challenged the revenue, they've had a traffic drop in the past as well. Recently, the runway was upgraded for several hundred million kroner, an investment that provided for stable revenues. Non-state airports are at risk in view of the political choices of big business and government, such as: whether tax-free is to be offered, such as today, or whether the wine monopoly is to be taken over, such as: The centre party wants. Will the Minister for Transport ensure that non-governmental airports, such as Torp Sandefjord Airport, will continue to have stable, long-term and fair framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1768	This government has no plans to have a stable framework for aviation, but, as the representative knows, we are in a situation where the pandemic has been faltering with aviation. This applies to all aerodromes, and it applies to all air carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1776	‘Questiontors have been made aware of problems related to patient travel services and have heard horror stories from, among other things, Trondelag, the County Council of State. There have been people who have been put off in the wrong place, asked to wait for a bus that does not go, a 78-year-old lady did not get help getting out to the car, and a lady of 84 years was driven around for 8 hours, for no reason whatsoever. Does the Council of State consider this offer acceptable, and what will she do to improve patient travel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1783	I do not have any knowledge of the specific issues to which the representative refers. That's why I can't go into them either. But we know that more places than Trondelag have had challenges with the patient travel system. However, this government is committed to improving this service. It is clear from the Hurdal platform that we want to simplify and improve the patient travel system and then review today’s tender practices. Patient law regulates the right of patients to receive the necessary expenses in connection with travel to and from treatment. It is the patient travel office of health businesses that helps the patient to organise the transport. But we've also seen that the role of the therapists is very important. It is the treatment providers who can and must assess whether there is a need for separate organisation of transport. They must assess the transport needs according to the patient’s health situation. The Ministry of Health and Health has already started work on the review of the patient travel area before this government joined. These include: to follow up previous decisions in the Storting. At the business meetings held in June this year, health regions were asked to follow up their own report, the Interregional Study on the organisation of the patient travel area. It called for the improvement of the candidate system, the development of standards and guidelines for waiting for transport and interconnection, the further development of the national framework for tenders and the management of contracts with transport providers. It also called for continued efforts to address digital solutions. This is naturally so far new demands that we have not seen the results, but we will follow that up. In addition, there is a review of the legislation of the ministry. It is planned to proceed with a consultation on a revised patient travel regulations. The proposals to be submitted are based on an evaluation of the current legislation of the Directorate for Health. The government is working on the basis of the Hurdal platform and has as its clear objective the simplification and improvement of the patient travel system, so that it works better for all patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1800	I understand that the Council of State cannot wonder after being the Council of State for just a few weeks, but this is actually not an unknown problem. I'm a little worried when the Council of State says you're going to make a hearing, and then it's going to be sent out to the hearing, because there's one thing that's certain, is that when you're going to send things to the hearing, it takes time. And it's a challenge for people like Kjell Stokland, as it was said in Namdalsavias, with 11 negative experiences in 19 days. It says something about what challenges you have here. Or I could, for example, taken as an example from Budstikka on 12 May: ‘Do not attend medical sessions because transport is late’. Or in Bergen's Official Journal only a few days ago about Linn, who is frustrated and is dropping patient travels due to delays and that the taxi does not come. It is clear that this is serious, because it is actually about people who need treatment and help, and so you have a transport that does not work. I believe that the Council of State could be much clearer to the patient travel offices and the hospital companies, because this is unacceptable, and you have to make sure that patients actually arrive at the hours they are going to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1807	I am ready to be clear to the service that is responsible for providing a good and safe patient journey. Then I fully agree with the representative of Hoksrud, this is not an unknown problem. I actually remember a long time ago, when I was in a debate with Bård Hoksrud while we were both transport politicians. Hoksrud was State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, and the place was the national meeting of the Taxi Federation, in fact. Since then, the Advance Party in the Government has liberalised the taxi market. There has been no improved access to taxis in the districts, and it is clear that for healthcare, which is the provider of a service here, at least this government is concerned that things should be linked. We want to look at patient travels. Patients in Norway are very satisfied with the treatment offered to them in the specialist healthcare service. Where they are most dissatisfied, they are on the patient travel offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1814	It is nice that the Council of State remembers debates from the Transport Committee, debates on taxis. I believe that it is not the case that liberalisation is being liberalised, and the change in tax regulation has consequences for patient travel, because it is about the tenders that health companies decide to base. I think you can be very clear, because when you drive that type of transport, it's about people who may be sick, and who need help getting out of the car and that kind of thing. You can add that as a requirement, no matter what tax regulation you have. It is about those who are to provide the services that they should be able to do so in a good way. Then I want to say that there are many places in the country where they are very nice, and where they take this very seriously, while elsewhere you see a completely different attitude on the part of some drivers, or on the part of individuals who provide these services. Then, when ordering these services, the public has a responsibility to actually ensure that the services are good across the country. Then we're going to boast of those who are good, but we have to do better where you get these examples that we see here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1821	I totally agree. This is part of the service, which is going to be just as good all over the country, and then we have the opportunity to, among other things. to regulate it in regulation, and we do. I would also like to say that, in order for health businesses to have good suppliers to perform this service, one depends on a well-functioning market locally. It is probably a situation that is a little different now than the last time I and the representative discussed this issue. I am willing to look at new ways to organise this service, but so far we intend to follow up on the reports that have been prepared. We know something about what doesn't work, and it's also a good starting point for doing something about the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1830	‘In its first intervention as Minister of Health of the United Kingdom, the Council of State said that ‘Disparity is itself a source of increased health inequalities. We're going to be a government of ordinary people, a government that balances differences." But the increase in self-interest creates, on the contrary, greater health differences and affects social disparity. People who have poor advice can, in the worst case, delay or refrain from seeking medical attention. If the government wants to compensate for health differences, why does the government choose to keep the increase in self-interest by $465?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1837	This year is the first year with one self-employment. Self-employed persons 1 and self-employed persons 2 were merged from January 2021. Now there are excesses for medical services, medicines on blue prescriptions, patient travels and physiotherapy, etc. under the same roof. During the budget negotiations for the 2021 budget, the combined equity participation was set at NOK 2460. That's the same thing as equity participation 1 was in 2020. The roofing system has a minimum limit of 200 kroner, which is the limit on how much you must have paid over the roof in proportion before you get money refunded. This means that if you have paid 199 kroner over the roof in proportion, this money will not be refunded. The government of Solberg has proposed to liquidate the de minimis threshold, so that if you pay more than the ceiling, the amount is actually repaid. It is a good proposal that reduces the cost of many health care users. But the government of Solberg also proposed to increase the equity stake by 461 kroner. 35 kroner finance the liquidation of the de minimis threshold, and 74 kroner is the price adjustment of the own payment, so that the real value of it is maintained, but the increase of the de minimis stake by a total of 352 kroner is to provide a saving on the ceiling scheme of 500 million kroner. kr. We would love to be in addition to this increase. There are many proposals in the Solberg government budget that we would like to change, but we have had a short time and have had to give strict priority. That is why we have focused on mental health, on increased capacity in hospitals and on getting to the fixed medical system for rescue. The Hurdals platform says that the government will keep peculiarities at a low level, and we will. We will follow up on the ownership of the budgets in the future, where we are also behind the whole priority of the entire budget. Unfortunately, the first budget that the Big Government will present in full will only be obtained from 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1848	Earlier today, the Council of State said she was surprised that the Solberg government introduced such a large increase in self-interest. I have to say that I am at least equally surprised that the Workers' Party-Center Party government is choosing to keep that increase. I acknowledge and hear that they have had short periods of time, but people who have poor advice also have poor health. It shows that Difference Norway has many and great consequences. As a minimum, access to health care must be equal. In a society with great economic differences, where there are both economic and health differences, more expensive health care means that the injustice that existed there is reinforced. Does this mean that the government will return to the revised national budget or next year – can it be promised today that they will never again increase self-interest, or that it will be reversed to what it was?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1855	The proposal for a State budget has been presented – most of it from the Solberg government through their Prop. 1 S, and then the Big Government has presented an additional number where we have had to give strict priority. We have focused on mental health, increased capacity in hospitals and the fixed medical system, among several things. So it's going to be negotiated in this house to get a majority of the budget. I have noticed that SV in its alternative state budget prioritizes to reverse this whole increase. I am sending good thoughts to the negotiations that are going to take place in this house, with a view to adopting a good health budget that does not increase the social health differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1862	For people who have bad advice and are struggling to pay the expenses they have, good thoughts from the Minister of Health are not enough. You need action from the state council and government; they can't just expect those you're going to negotiate with, maybe take matters into their own hands. I hear the priorities mentioned by the Council of State and think they are important and good. I'm glad the government made them. But the government could afford more well-being and cheaper health care for people if they hadn't doubted about taxes – 30 billion. kr of them – from the right-hand government. Does the Council of State see that health care for people is more important than peaceing so much of right-hand tax relief?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1869	The Hurdal platform says that we have to keep the props at a low level. We will follow that up in the next budgets. In the additional number from the Støre administration, which is in Stortinget now, we do our priorities. Unfortunately, there are only minor adjustments to a budget from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. So it is that all citizens, especially those who have poor advice, unfortunately have to wait until the government budget is adopted. Here are the parties that want to go in the same direction as us, and I hope they can find together. Last year, The Storting cashed back the same increase in equity. Finally, there was a budgetary agreement with the Progress Party where this was reversed. That is also the background to the fact that I said I was surprised when the Solberg government tried again. So I want to be happy with the budget negotiations and the country's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1876	We go to question 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1884	‘In the Klasskampen on 2 November, the Council of State stated that the industrial policy of the Hurdal Platform is more progressive than the industrial policy of the Solberg Government and that this government should pursue a more active industrial policy. What does the Council of State think is the most significant difference between the active industrial policy of the Solberg Government and the active industrial policy of the Støre Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1891	At least I can say that the government has high ambitions for industrial policy, and as Minister of Industry, I want to promote an active industrial policy, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland points out. There's several reasons for that. In the years ahead, we need to be prepared for oil demand to fall, and demand for renewable energy is increasing. This is not reflected in the investment in mainland Norway in which this government takes over. Then I also believe that the world needs Norwegian solutions, and that is why we are going to help increase exports from the mainland. Norway is the country throughout the OECD that has lost the largest market shares measured in terms of export volume in the last 20 years. We're going to turn that around. At the same time, we also know that too many people are out of work. The employment rate has fallen, and it's a waste of our most important resource that we can't afford. Therefore, we need to use our entire toolbox and have clear objectives for business policy. Enterprise policy must contribute to the green transition we are facing. We don't have much time, and we're busy seeing results. With active industrial policy, I believe that the State should make more provision for the necessary infrastructure. We are to enter into partnerships between the country and the major industries that can reconcile both emission reduction and industrial development. The State should be able to contribute capital and other risk-absorbing and should be able to facilitate strong domestic markets through its purchases. In order for Norwegian companies to grow, I am also concerned that we should simplify and strengthen the instrument and that there should be one door in, whether you are a small start-up company or a large industrial locomotive. An active industrial policy is also about listening to businesses and their needs, helping to establish more profitable jobs throughout business life. As I said, we're willing to use the entire toolbox in the way that gives the most effect to society. That's the background for me to visit and meet at least 100 companies before Christmas to get concrete input into how this toolbox is to be used. I can say that everyone I meet is asking for a more active industrial policy. I want and want to have good framework conditions for the entire business life and help mobilise the most private capital possible for the green shift, but we also need to do special lifting and dare to point out a direction where it is obvious that Norway has taken advantage. That doesn't mean we're going to sit in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and point to individual businesses, but our industrial policy will be more guiding than the Solberg government. We're going to work actively with the business community where we have obvious advantages, for example. within hydrogen, liquid sea wind, batteries, carbon capture and storage, to mention some examples. The rate change shall occur significantly. A change of pace is necessary because we're facing major challenges that we're going to solve. We don't have much time. We're going to cut big greenhouse gas emissions, we're going to increase investment in the mainland, we're going to increase exports by 50 pst, and we're going to get more people to work. Private capital and innovation will be important, but we also believe that industrial policy can actively contribute to this success.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1908	I thank you for your answer. I share the ambitions of the Minister of Industry, and when the Minister of Industry points out that the active industrial policy of the Big Government is about partnership with industry, infrastructure, contributing more capital and simplification both in everyday life to businesses and in the instrumentation, it is, to a large extent, the government of Solberg also did so for eight years. We gave more priority to nutrient research, increased the allocations to Enova and to Nysnø, established Longships, started sea wind, Hywind Tampen, and improved the option tax. So it's just a little bit hard to understand. What is the Minister of Industry now actively going to do to scale up business opportunities in marine wind, battery and hydrogen – except for state companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1917	I can promise the representative and everyone else that we will come back with a wide range of proposals for the Stortinget. I'm impatient and I'm going to deliver results. We've been running a few weeks and need a little bit more time. But I can explain some examples and some differences. In the political programme of the previous government, the aim was to reduce state ownership. I have no goal of reducing state ownership. We have a pragmatic view of state ownership and will use it where it can promote the highest possible value creation in Norway. The previous government said very little about increasing Norwegian exports. The previous government said Norway should be a force for free trade. It's all right, but it doesn't solve the big problem that we've lost most of the market shares measured in OECD's export volume in the last 20 years. That is why, as the first government, we have a clear export target, and we are going to present a very offensive export effort. The previous government platform referred to the word ‘active’ 42 times, but ‘active enterprise policy’ was not mentioned once. One should have active literature policy, active faith policy and active participation in military forums. It's all right, but it doesn't solve the problems in business. There are some differences between the previous government and this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1930	It's still a little unclear, to understand the significant difference, because very many of the measures and instruments that the Minister of Food points to, the government started Solberg. We see that in many areas it is important to strengthen public-private cooperation and partnership with business, to provide capital and to ensure that many of the sectors in which we have competitive advantages also have the opportunity to export outside the country's borders. I assume that the Minister of Industry has come up with some ideas about action that distinguishes the active enterprise policy from the government of Solberg and the government of Støre, other than establishing a separate company and increasing state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1937	As I said, there's a lot of tools we're willing to use as the previous government refused. For example, it won't be a goal for us to reduce state ownership. We have a pragmatic view of state ownership and will use it where it has the greatest effect. While the previous government did not set a target for Norwegian exports, and even in its export strategy wrote something such as that it is not an end in itself to increase Norwegian exports, we believe that it is, and we are going to make industry-oriented programmes where we have the greatest potential. While the previous government was more concerned with providing capital for general schemes and for general conversion, we also have to do so, but we also have to do special action where it is obvious that Norway has great industrial opportunities and where there is a need to seize the opportunities, to ensure that that technology, industrialisation and scaling do not occur in countries other than Norway. There are at least three examples of things that I believe are different from each other, and I promise – with respect for the Storting – that we will come back with a wide range of things that show that we are serious and that we are impatient in business policy. The emissions are going down, the jobs are going up, the investments are going up and the exports are going up – and that's what we're going to be measured on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1946	And time is up!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1954	‘I refer to the article in Avisa Oslo, November 3, where it says that in recent years the City Council has spent nearly $600 million on the purchase of ten private kindergartens to make them municipal. Does the Council of State consider it right to spend hundreds of millions on active purchases of private kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1961	It is the municipality which is the local nursery authority and which has the overall responsibility for both private and municipal kindergartens in its own municipality. This means that it is the municipality that is responsible for fulfilling the rights of kindergartens and for designing a childcare facility that is adapted to local conditions and needs. I believe it is right that the municipality has the overall responsibility for the dimensioning of the nursery facilities. It's the municipality that knows the local conditions best. Nevertheless, the bourgeois government would not allow municipalities to manage the quality and dimensioning of the private nursery services. It's a problem for several reasons. Between 2014 and 2020, the number of children in Norwegian kindergartens has been reduced by more than 14,000 children. Under today's legislation, municipalities do not have the opportunity to reduce the number of kindergartens in private kindergartens. Thus, municipalities have to bear the risk and reduce the number of municipal kindergartens, while private households can continue as before as long as they have applicants and parents who pay for kindergartens. With a larger element of private kindergartens, the locally adopted childcare policy reaches an increasingly smaller proportion of the children. In a municipality with a majority of private kindergartens, the locally adopted kindergarten policy does not reach the majority of kindergartens. It's a cross of thought at a time when the ambitions for kindergarten are increasing. In recent years, several municipalities with large sections of private kindergartens have chosen to take over the operation of private kindergartens and private kindergartens, and some municipalities have also chosen not to approve several private kindergartens. Some of the reasons, then, are that the bourgeois government did not allow municipalities to control the quality and dimensioning of private kindergartens. It is important for the government to ensure democratic governance and control of the kindergarten sector. In the Hurdal platform, we have, among other things: said that we will give municipalities the opportunity to prioritize small private and ideal kindergartens, and we will consider the introduction of reporting obligations in the case of change of ownership and municipal pre-purchase rights. In addition to that, I have no reason to comment on the assessments made by the Municipality of Oslo in this case. The Storberget Committee delivered an interesting study on the financing system for private kindergartens before the summer. The majority of the sample has proposed a model that will provide municipalities with stronger tools to manage both the dimensioning and the development of quality in kindergarten provision. The committee's report has recently been at the hearing, and we are now working on a summary of the hearings. I look forward to coming back to Stortinget with proposals for further follow-up to the sample report and findings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1980	I thank you for your answer. We fully agree that the municipalities have the overall responsibility to give this offer. At the same time, we need to ensure that public funds are used as best as possible to provide the best possible quality for young people. When the sick leave in private kindergartens in Oslo is two percentage points below the municipal level, this says something about both well-being and the quality of the offer, and parental studies also show that parents are more satisfied with private kindergartens. But the most important thing for the kids is to have a good time in kindergarten, not who drives it – and to be honest, we parents don't care much about it either. There is no doubt that private kindergartens have contributed to diversity, freedom of choice and, above all, to improving the quality of the sector. I understand that the Council of State does not want to comment on Oslo, but I wonder: What is the attitude of the Council of State that a municipality chooses to spend money on buying up kindergartens, instead of using them to raise the quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e1991	The representative, Hagerup, assumes that municipalities are buying private kindergartens, not working together to improve quality. I disagree with that premise. I am convinced that all Norwegian municipalities are doing what they can to ensure the best possible offer for all young people, regardless of whether they are in municipal or private kindergartens. The legislation we have for private kindergartens dates from 2003, where we invited the whole country on a large scale to expand the number of kindergartens in a very short time. The kindergarten sector has changed dramatically in recent years and since then. Therefore, there is a need to look at the legislation and legislation of private kindergartens. The goal must be that the quality is high, that the access is great, and that there is democratic governance with the billions of dollars we spend every single year by the government to grant money to kindergartens, whether it's private or public.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2000	I thank you for your answer. We agree that it is important that the framework conditions are good for private and public kindergartens. But the Council of State said that one in the Hurdals platform also says that one wants to limit and tighten up the legislation for private kindergarten operators. We're probably in disagreement about someone who needs both public and private to have a better quality. However, both the acquisitions that take place in several cities now, the work of the Storberget Committee and the discussion on the management and financing of private kindergartens have created considerable uncertainty in the sector. At the same time, one third of the private kindergartens are in deficit. This means that more people now assess the future and fear of their life's work. How will the Council of State contribute to calmness, security and predictability in a sector that is – and has been – completely dependent on having private actors as contributors? Or does the Council of State simply admit that it is a wild policy to tighten the screw so hard that the private actors will eventually have to shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2009	No, it doesn't admit to the council. Our private actors account for half of the private kindergartens in Norway. That's good. They do a formidable job, and they will continue to do so with predictable framework conditions from government and big business. What is not good is that for many years we have seen a sector change and at the same time failed to change the rules on how the sector is managed. This means, for example: that the proportion of children in a kindergarten currently owned by a foreign group has increased dramatically in recent years. It is not good for managing the quality of the kindergarten offer, it is not good for municipalities to design an offer in line with what is needed locally, and it is not good to ensure that we have legitimacy in transferring billions of dollars to this sector on behalf of the community every year. The objective is good quality in the kindergarten sector, regardless of where the children go to kindergarten, and strict rules that provide traceability, predictability and security for taxpayers as well as for parents and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2021	‘According to the Hurdal platform, the government will ‘improve the recruitment standards to ensure that the children are properly added’. Now sick leave is increasing in the kindergarten sector. The reason is said to be too many jobs for too few employees and a high pressure. The kindergartens have been under great pressure throughout the pandemic. Now the infection is increasing among children and young people. Despite promises, there is no mention of an increase in basic staff in the government's draft government budget. How will the Council of State ensure that children are adequately employed in kindergarten in the current and future situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2028	We have to think big about the smallest in our society. Although we have come a long way in developing a good childcare facility in Norway, we still have a lot left that can be better. The government has high ambitions for kindergartens, and I believe that this is well illustrated in the supplementary number of the state budget for 2022. Here the government proposes to cut the maximum price in kindergartens for the first time since 2013. It will facilitate the participation of more children in the kindergarten community. At the same time, we propose strengthening the free revenues of municipalities of 3.6 billion. kr, where 2 billion. kr is in addition to what the previous government added. This will, of course, enable several municipalities to strengthen both the staffing and the competence of kindergartens. I therefore do not agree with the representative's approach that increased ground crews are not mentioned in the government's draft government budget. I quote from the proposition: «In determining the growth of free income, the government has taken into account the costs of increased basic staff and pedagogues in kindergartens in the last few years.» The reasons for the increased framework for municipalities include: the staffing and competence of kindergartens. I must remind you that the previous government introduced the standard without increased state transfers because the requirements of the norm had already been met on average. At the same time, we know that at the municipal level there are several municipalities that had increased costs associated with the implementation of the norm. Thus, in proposals for further growth in free income, the government has taken into account the costs of local authorities for increasing basic staff and for more pedagogues in kindergartens in recent years. Some adults in primary care in kindergartens combined with enough adults with pediatric competence are essential for a good childcare provision. Under the pandemic, kindergartens have been under great pressure, and we are now seeing an increase in sick leave in many kindergartens. There's been a lot of research on sick leave, even in our kindergartens. Good basic staff, present management and high level of competence are part of the answer to how we increase our presence. There is also some background that the government will, as the representative Bae Nyholt refers to, improve the standard of staffing in order to ensure adequate staff in kindergartens. We will do that, among other things. by setting requirements for temporary employment, local manager requirements and reviewing the time spent by employees. In addition, we will look into financing the norm. Finally, I have to remind you that the requirements of the Kindergarten Act for adequate staffing also apply in the event of sickness and other absences. This means that municipal and private kindergartens must call in temporary workers when this is necessary for staff to be able to carry out a satisfactory pedagogical activity. In line with the Hurdal platform, I want to take a closer look at temporary employment in kindergartens. Even with a standard of living, many kindergarten employees may feel that there is too little time to be with the children, and we are therefore going to review the time spent in kindergartens and see what tasks make employees feel like not having the time they need with the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2048	I thank you for your answer. KS has demonstrated that the applicable manning and pedagogical standards are underfunded by approximately 930 million. kr from 2022. At the same time, we know that we are fulfilling the government's own promise of 50 pst. kindergarten teachers will cost 645 million. kr. Calculations by the Ministry of Finance also show that the costs of staffing standards throughout the opening hours of the kindergarten will amount to about 13.6 billion. kr. Local authorities have a poor economy and need to give priority to many services. Many in the sector have expressed concern that the money does not arrive at kindergartens when there are no statutory tasks. Taking this into account — does the Minister believe that sufficient resources have been put in place to ensure adequate staffing in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2057	I think I'm going to be humble enough to say that we can never say that we're completely satisfied, and that everywhere it's perfectly accurate on care all the time. I still believe, in part, that the standard of living has worked, even though it has not been funded until now, because the number of children per adult has decreased in the period between 2017 and 2020, and that strengthening the community economy is an effective tool to ensure that more competent adults are present in kindergartens. So I think the big work we're going to do, looking at new legislation for private kindergartens, can be a very useful contribution also to introduce some quality requirements in connection with the establishment of kindergartens, and that we need clear goals for the eye when we run the whole sector. But the goal must be that we have good quality in all kindergartens, whether they are public or private, and then strengthening the local economy is a first important contribution to the big work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2064	Thank you for your answer. A childhood is fresher. It happens now, while we have childhood with us for the rest of our lives. Most children go to kindergarten. The years in kindergarten are the beginning of the education cycle, but it is also the arena where children should acquire social skills, knowledge about themselves and others, form relationships and step out of the home. People in kindergarten say that there are often too few people, and usually you are e.g. only one in the morning when the kids come in the door – the kid who's slept badly, the one who's seen something nice on the road, etc. The same is true in the afternoon. You just realize that it's vulnerable. There are only a few hours in the middle of the day where you experience being fully staffed. A study was also carried out last year on behalf of the Education Directorate, where almost one third of the kindergartens indicate that they have sufficient staffing only two to three hours a day. In the Hurdal platform, it's called, and I repeat, children need to be secured enough. Can the Council of State elaborate on how this is to be done, and at what rate?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2075	I agree with the representative that kindergarten is very important. Monday this week, in fact, there were figures showing that the young people who received an offer of free core time in the kindergarten in Oslo during the previous red-green government, who have now passed through high school, show improvement in several subjects. It says something about how a good childhood also in kindergarten is important for later school life and the rest of it. I believe the representative and I agree that we need to make more efforts to ensure that there are many enough qualified employees in the job and many enough employees in total in the individual kindergarten. It is both about extending the possibility of taking a professional letter at work, it is about strengthening a local economy, and it is about having standards and rules that are really follow-up in the individual nursery. I think I'm content to say that this will come back to us both in the work on regulations for the private kindergartens and in the other follow-up of both the state budget and other initiatives for the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2085	‘On several occasions, the Council of State has demonstrated that police reform is to be evaluated and that work is to be carried out in 2022 on issues relating to the allocation of funds to the police. When will the government’s evaluation of police reform be completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2092	In the Hurdal platform, the government has set out great ambitions for the police. We want to ensure the security, good presence and accessibility of citizens throughout the country. It is apparent from the platform that the effects of the close police reform will be evaluated. We're going to go through the consequences of the near-police reform, and then we're going to put forward a plan for how to strengthen the police. We have to get back to the timeline of that work. The plan shall build up during the development of crime and the presence of the police for emergency reasons. The government has great ambitions to strengthen both the police’s ability to fight crime and the police’s preparedness capacities for citizens throughout the country. We have to spend time drawing up the plan. Work shall be carried out in dialogue with the municipalities and the police. The work of strengthening the presence of the police is long-term, and we're going to start in 2022. The review of the Police Directorate, which is also part of the platform, is part of this work. It is important to have a good knowledge base in order to make the right priorities and to be able to deploy resources where most is needed. Today, we have knowledge that says a lot about how the near-police reform is going on in different parts of the country. In 2020, an evaluation was carried out by the Executive and Financial Management Directorate which concluded that the objective of increased local presence and visibility has not been achieved. The DFØ further recommends assessing how the police can become more visible and present and improving their contact with the police. Last year's survey by the police showed that trust in the police is lowest in the smallest municipalities, and that people in the smallest municipalities feel less secure than residents in larger municipalities. It's important for the government to take this seriously. Part of it is that we'll look at the creation of 20 new places of employment, which is also a work we'll be doing next year. New places of service may be set up where there is a local desire for it or where geographical distances or the crime scene indicate that there is a need. The government has also proposed to grant 200 million in the additionalproposal for the State budget of 2022. to strengthen crime prevention, prevention and investigation. That money should give the police increased staff and presence. We also have to start work – which I have already had – with the new offices in 2022. So it's important to bear in mind that when we say that we want 20 new places, it's a long-term work for the whole period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2111	I note that it is not possible to explain when this evaluation will be completed, but it has been decided that 20 new police posts will be set up before the evaluation is started. Can the Council of State guarantee that the 20 police posts will be completed by 2025, and does the Minister of Justice have any idea of what it will cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2116	It is a clear goal for the government, through the Hurdal platform, that we will set up 20 new places of service. We're going to start with that work in 2022. The costs will vary according to the place of work. That depends, for example, on: leases and other things. There's also something we'll get back to in the further work. It is important for me to stress that we need more policemen locally. It is also an important part of strengthening the police throughout the country. This is a work that the government has already started, because in our proposal for a State budget we are prioritizing 200 million. kr mer till e.g. more policemen throughout the country, something that the Right did not include in its proposal for a State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2123	I have said several times that it is fine with more money for the police, but it is also fine with a plan for how to use that money. It is interesting to note that that plan does not exist. What does the Council of State think about using police resources to mannify office buildings, which no one in the police would like to do, rather than having more police officers out there among ordinary people throughout the country in which we are so happy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2130	I record that the representative, as in the past, has a very categorical approach to whom to listen when he says that absolutely no one in the police has a certain meaning. For the government it is important to listen to municipalities and the police themselves, as part of the work we are going to do in finding good places for new places of employment. It is with the intention of filling a room that is empty, where the police are not sufficiently present locally, after the government that sat before us, of which the Right was part, carried out a police reform with the result that there have been some very large distances and too little police present in everyday life to ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2142	This question, from the representative Tage Pettersen to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn. That being the case, it is no. 2, the ordinary Questionnaire, ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-17.ana.ud541e2158	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
