ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e83	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be kept closed also during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Solfrid Lerbreck, who has been on leave, has again taken the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e107	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e123	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e130	In Kabelvåg in Lofoten we have a unique offer: Nordland Art and Filmshögskole, which is Norway's and Scandinavia's only offer of a Bachelor's programme within moving images. Study Bachelor in Moving Images at Nordland School of Art and Filmmaking was accredited by NOKUT in 2017. The Bachelor's programme in moving images is based on the school's long traditions in the field of art and film, and the programme is developed by artists and filmmakers working in the crossroads between the two forms of art. Today, the Nordic School of Art and Cinema is owned by the county council of Nordland, which has so far fully financed the university without State subsidies. The County Council has also funded a comprehensive infrastructure to ensure that Nordic art and cinema schools have the highest modern facilities to meet the requirements of film education at the highest level. Then there have been challenges related to the funding of the school because the county does not have the ability to continue the funding of a university. Therefore, in order to be able to continue, Nordic art and filmmaking schools need to find a different funding. There is an overall committee that has long been aware of this challenge, and we have recommended, through various comments, that transitional funding be ensured in recent years. The Committee is also unanimous today on the need for the government to be involved in this matter. We ask the government to assess the allocation of study places to the Bachelor in moving images as soon as possible. Nordland School of Art and Filmmaking is in dialogue with NTNU about a possible inclusion in the Kunstakademiet Trondheim. Inclusion of the Nordic Art and Film Higher Education School in an accredited institution will be a good solution as it stands now, and that this institution can apply for study places in a normal way towards the annual budgetary procedures. I am very pleased that the committee is united on this and that the committee is giving such clear signals. Now it's up to the council. I would particularly like to thank the educational spokesperson in the Right, Kent Gudmundsen, for a very good cooperation in this matter. I hope it will be possible to find a solution for this unique school that lies in the heart of Lofoten, and as everyone understands, is a very important institution that contributes a lot to its local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e147	When it became clear in the fall of 2019 that Nordland art and filmmaking schools were at risk, this threat mobilised both former students and communities. The exposure was understandable. It got there. In the Workers' Party, we were never in doubt about the importance of maintaining the study offer in Kabelvåg, and that it is unique in Norwegian context. The Working Party received a comment from the entire Committee on the state budget 2020, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee has registered the appeal for the preservation of the Nordic Arts and Film Schools. Following the evaluation of the Committee, this institute offers, through the bachelor's training in moving images, a unique offer in Norway that society needs. The Committee would also stress the importance of the offer for the development of both the Lofoten region and the Greater Barents region.» The working party had hoped that such a unanimous signal would ensure continued operation by the government. But the uncertainty existed. All parties have been aware of the fact that Nordland Art and Film High Schools must complete operations in the spring of 2022 unless transitional funding is ensured. That is why we in the Workers' Party were very disappointed that the government parties and the Progress Party chose not to allocate the necessary funds in the state budget for 2021. In advance, we would have encouraged that the parties in position should re-prioritize to secure the places of study on which the future of the school depends. Nordic arts and film schools received grants from the county council, but higher education is not a county municipal responsibility today. For this reason, we believe that the government should provide what the college asks for in the hearing as soon as possible, namely resources during a transitional period to ensure operation until a long-term solution is in place. Without transitional funding, a unique and well-run education and training provision and the professional environment could be lost. This would be a pity for both students, for the larger region and for the diversity of Norwegian higher education. Since it became known that there was a risk of closure, the Workers' Party has been a driver for the maintenance of the Nordic art and film high school. In our alternative budget for 2021, we proposed 3,000 new places of study. We would have given room to fund the necessary study places. We support the proposal of the representative for a decision as it exists and hope that the parties to the government see the importance of continuing operations becoming a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e167	This is a matter I have been following over very many years. I just have to start by commending the case rapporteur for having had a constructive and good approach to how we in the committee would find a comprehensive solution to this matter, which means a lot to the community and to the part of the country in which the school is located. What is a little bit more inexorable, on the other hand, is the way the representative Nina Sandberg presents the story. Because it is now that the background that we are there today is that the former technical school in the Nordic countries in the field of art and film started with an approval process up against NOKUT, starting with the admission of students, which means that you no longer have vocational school students and can receive grants from the Ministry of Knowledge and the State under the Law of the School of Sciences. This has therefore been done without obtaining the necessary accreditation at institution level under the Law on Higher Education. Nor has an agreement been put in place that has made it possible to award it through another approved institution. The summary is this: there is a broad consensus that the dialogues that I know with NTNU, and with other universities, about getting in place under an accredited institution, are the way to go for school, so that you are in a position to get assigned places of study at the next crossroads. That's the right and only way to do it, because we need to have a certain level of cleanness and not least formal processes related to how we allocate study places to ensure simultaneous transparency, objectivity and not least that there is quality assurance in the way we do it. Then it is also worth noting that the county council in Northernland, which owns this school, and which is governed by the Workers' Party, has a significant responsibility for the situation you are in now. They have come into an intermediate position, where they do not have post-secondary students and are therefore not in a position to receive support under the Fachscholegesetz. That is why I believe it is also very good that the Committee now agrees that there is a significant responsibility in this intermediate phase in the municipality of Nordland until these formalities have been landed and one is in a position to look at the allocation of study places.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e178	In 2019, the majority of the county council in Nordland decided that Nordland School of Fine Arts and Film Studies should be closed and closed when the last coal was finished in 2022. The county therefore did not grant money to the school so that they could bring up students in the current academic year. Last summer I was contacted by the locals, in the Vågan and Kabelvåg, to try to find a solution, so that the school could have the ease to carry out the discussions that were necessary with the universities they might be merging with. The Committee has examined the matter before, with reference to the State budget for 2020. The county of Nordland has also dealt with this matter in the past, but the minority was voted down when, in the context of the 2020 budget, they proposed that the county council should ask the state to finance the school. There was nothing that led forward. But once again, not always is the easiest solution. The Progress Party promoted in its alternative state budget for 2021 proposals to set aside 4.5 million. kr to ensure admission in the autumn, but unfortunately we did not get through in the negotiations. The school itself has done a formidable job of finding new partners. We are aware that they have entered into close cooperation and an agreement of intent with the Academy of Art in Trondheim, which is part of NTNU. But it is quite clear that this is not a smart fix or a solution that is in place overnight. When we promoted this proposal for a representative in February, the future of the school was still a little uncertain. But then something really happy happened. The county council in the county council, with the centre party and the Workers' Party in the head, changed their mind, they turned the trill around. When the County Council met on 26 March, they finally decided to continue to operate the school on a temporary basis, until transfer to the university and higher education sectors by 2024, and that costs should be incorporated into the county economic plan. The positive job around the school has also borne fruit. Now we see that there are 73 applicants for bachelor's education in the autumn. When we already know that over 80 pst. Of those who have completed the study, so-called professionally active after completion of education, this is a school that educates people to work, and that must be first priority. Finally, I should like to thank the Committee. It is really gratifying that a unanimous committee, including the government parties, and the Workers' Party and the Centre, are behind the remark to ask the government to assess the allocation of study places as soon as possible. Now it can just go one way, and it's going to go forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e197	Nordland Art and Film High School, abbreviated NKFS, is Norway's and Scandinavia's only offer of Bachelor's program within moving images, which was accredited by NOKUT in 2017. The programme has been developed by art and filmmakers themselves and Nordland County Owners and has also financed investment and development of the offer and ensured top modern facilities that can meet requirements for film education at the highest level. But we cannot continue to finance a college and operate it. Another funding is also needed to be able to continue the study offer. We were also very clear on this in the election of the state budget in 2021, where a joint committee was behind this. The center party wants a continuation of the school. The survey conducted by the municipality of Nordland shows that they are clear and active in dialogue with key actors who can ensure a possible takeover of the school. Since all students at NKFS have now been admitted to the accredited bachelor's offer, there will not be funding for post school and post school students. Integrating NKFS into an accredited institution will be a good solution. The right here shifts responsibility to the county council, but I think the government definitely has a responsibility for funding both the study places and the framework conditions for the study offer. The centre party was disappointed that the government parties and the Progress Party did not come up with a solution that could grant the necessary funds in the budgetary agreement. This could mean that the university had to be terminated. We need to get a long-term solution in place for the trade union environment and the study offer and industry. I myself know the Norwegian film school at the Inland University and the added value it gives locally. Without the necessary transitional funding, a unique and well-run education and training provision and the professional environment will be lost, with the loss it is for both individual students and the larger region in the north, and weakening the diversity of Norwegian higher education. It is understandable that the Progress Party is promoting a proposal for a representative without a concrete proposal that we can vote in favour of today's Stortinget. Right now there are 17 students in the second and third years. 73 applications were also received to fill out the 15 study places that the county now enters to set up for the autumn. It promises well for the future, it shows that here is the life created for a continued study offer – given to them the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e212	This is an exciting school, and it's exciting that it has arisen in Cable Wave. It is also exciting, artistic, to see how this type of education occurs in the professional community and with individuals as drivers, and to be able to develop a professional environment that is so good that they get the approval they received in 2017 from NOKUT. For us who have worked on cultural policy for a long time, there is also a study that good artists are not always good lobbyists. It is also interesting that these kinds of institutions are important in the development of the local environment and the development of our districts. In the light of the debate on the north we had yesterday, it shows how knowledge institutions can be involved and drivers of development. This is a very positive school, and it's an important school, professionally, based on the needs of art, and what Norway has of education, and it's good to make sure that. I don't think the county council has ever wanted the art college to hurt, but the way they handled it has not benefited the school. You haven't had a long-term strategy, you've been committed to saving, and it's a left-hand job that hasn't led to professional development and building the alliances that you need. So I also hope that the county council will go along with it and look at how they work with the knowledge environment in their own county to develop it and promise it, and that this way of working has not been a good thing. Then I have a question to the Council of State in my post: if you as a citizen meet the state, the state has a duty of guidance, and really the state should have had a duty of guidance towards this school so that they wouldn't have come into the situation they're in right now. I think, and I look at the intentions of this room now, that one is going to find good solutions in the future, but it's clear that they've gone a lot of detours that have cost them a lot of energy and money, where they should really be put on track at a much earlier time. I am pleased with the support they have in this Chamber and that it is so broad in political terms. I think this is a school that we're really going to benefit from in Norwegian culture in the future. Then there's a funny part of cultural life that's found in the break-up between the stock exchange and the cathedral, and that gives many opportunities for the development of good Norwegian art, which we also need.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e225	Never before in history has it been produced and consumed as much images and at as high speed as now. Never before have we been surrounded by so many screens in so many different rooms. The new technology challenges us in the way we see, think, feel and understand the images we see. Nordic art and film high school, which Norway and Scandinavia's only offer of Bachelor's programme in moving pictures, has proved to be an important point of assembly and anchor for both students and others in the industry. Nordic higher education in arts and film contributes to an important diversity in the Norwegian higher education sector. This diversity is the Christian People's Party engaged in taking care of. In December 2019, the Stortinget adopted amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which require all higher education institutions to have institutional accreditation in order to receive state subsidies. The law on institutional accreditation as a condition for obtaining state subsidies aims to contribute to higher quality and greater non-discrimination between all types of institutions, but there is, of course, no compulsion. As a higher education institution, Nordland has the opportunity to choose sources of funding other than a state grant, but if a government funding is to be sought, which is, of course, the first objective, then one must apply for institutional accreditation on its own, or engage in dialogue if possible with institutions that are already accredited. The Christian People's Party understands that this has been a demanding situation for school and school owners, but I'm very pleased that the school has always been active in its commitment to getting funding in place. That is why I am pleased that the school is now in dialogue with NTNU about integrating the school into an already accredited institution. At the same time, the State Council of Asheim has reported on NTNU's state grants which allow us to assume that NTNU has financial room for action to finance a preliminary project on possible cooperation between the Academy of Arts in Trondheim and Nordland School of Arts and Films. With a cooperation solution here, I hope that the school and the students get the continuity and security they so badly need to continue. As the Christian People's Party sees this, it could be a good solution as the situation stands now. Finally, I want to raise the value of this school. Together with the municipality of Nordland, it has been possible to establish a school that balances innovation and practice in such a magical place as Kabelwag in Lofoten. From this point of view, it has been shown that artists and filmmakers from the Nordic countries and all over the world are visiting the school to teach and hold workshops on content, forms, methods and processes. We hope that the school, through the new cooperation being established, will have a sustainable foundation to be an important school in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e238	The representatives of Storting Freiberg and Søttar have made a proposal that Nordland Art and Cinema School and NTNU receive financial assistance for a transitional period. Nordland Art and Film High School has developed its former vocational school offer for a Bachelor's degree in moving images with financial support from the county. I have registered that the county council does not want to finance the bachelor's study in the long term, and that the county council and the school want state subsidies to finance this offer. The government has over time worked to improve the quality of higher education and research. A major step was the structural reform Concentration for Quality, to which the Stortinget joined in June 2015. The aim of the reform was to pool resources in fewer but stronger institutions. Furthermore, as of 1 January 2020, we amended the Law of the University and Higher Education Act so that higher education institutions are required to have institution accreditation from NOKUT in order to receive state grants from the Ministry of Knowledge. The law allows exemptions from the requirement if there is a particular social need for education. Private colleges without accreditation, such as Nordland Art and Film Higher Education, may apply for institution accreditation or engage in dialogue with an institution-accredited college or university where possible. However, institutional accreditation does not automatically entitle State grants. It is positive that the Kunstakademiet in Trondheim at NTNU will evaluate cooperation with Nordland Art and Filmshögskole. I think the trade unions can benefit from, and get stronger by, just such cooperation. And I think it can benefit the students and give them an even better study offer. This is in line with the government's objective of robust professional environments and high quality in education. If the school becomes part of NTNU, NTNU may choose to apply to the Ministry of Knowledge for funding for this training. Such an application will be dealt with in the ordinary processes of working with the State budget and will be subject to political priorities. Universities and higher education institutions receiving grants from the Ministry of Knowledge receive an annual framework allocation which they themselves shall prioritise and make available as they deem best to achieve their objectives. So they have a great degree of freedom for the use of the appropriations. NTNU is the largest higher education institution in the country and receives a grant from the Ministry of Knowledge of over 7.3 billion. NOK 2021. I therefore believe that they themselves are able to cover the costs of assessing cooperation with Nordic art and film higher education institutions. In order to cover the costs of operating the school until possible inclusion in NTNU, I believe that the municipality of Nordland, as the owner of the school, has the primary responsibility for it, and I am therefore pleased that they have also taken this responsibility. Finally, to the representative Skei Grande's question on the obligation to provide guidance: we have certainly met with Nordland Art and Film School to explain the legislation and help them as best we can, but it may have come a little late in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e265	I am very pleased that the committee is so assembled and so clear in this matter. But I have a concern now, and it's about the Council of States. He said in his speech that this had to be the subject of political priorities. It's not very obvious. Does the Council of State think that the presentation of the Committee is clear enough so that he personally will take this call seriously? And in that case, how will the Council of State do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e270	Of course, the government is very responsive to the signals that Stortinget also gives, and I fully agree: the Committee is very clear that this is an offer that you want when applying for funding through study places to be awarded study places. The reason why I'm saying what I'm doing is really pretty obvious, and that's because it's not just this college that's going to apply for study places. There's a lot of institutions going to do it. If I had started to deal with this continuously from the Great Britain pulpit, I think someone else would have responded. What they are asking for here is that category A places of study — there are expensive places of study — which, of course, will be set up in a political priority towards other places of study in other institutions. It is simply a priority that the government does in the budgets every year when we receive applications for study places. And then, of course, it's up to the Storting finally to make decisions about how we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e277	I thank you for the articles of the Council of State. This is a school that now knows the knife in the throat, a professional environment that knows that it is unpredictable, and the students can also ask questions about the future of the trade union environment and the trade union offer. I wonder if the Council of State can comment on what it would have been like if the Stortinget had made a more concrete decision today, and what kind of prospects we might try to give this school and this environment, which should of course be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e284	First, I also understand very well the frustration of the uncertainty that is now. I sometimes feel as a politician that it is a little frustrating to point out the code towards a very small institution with many idealists who do a great job. The challenge is just the order in which this is done. And, as I said a little bit in my previous answer as well, there are quite a lot of other institutions that are also looking for study places, and that are doing so within the regulatory framework that is. So ask the representative Knutsdatter Strand: What would it mean by a more binding decision in Stortinget? It depends a little on what the decision had been, simply because it's a little unclear to me in the sense that everyone – including me – shares the commitment for this school, and thinks they're doing a great job and is an offer that we need. But they have to follow the rules for the award of study places. So, of course, it would have depended on what the Storting had decided. But if the Storting had said something else, we would, of course, follow up on what the majority had asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e291	I wanted to ask the Council of State questions that concern him saying that there are a lot of people applying for study places, and that is right. However, in this case, the Committee has given a very clear signal that this is a unique offer in Norway that the whole community needs. It is such that diversity in the university and higher education sectors, among others. ensure that the law does not impose general accreditation requirements at institution level. This has been very clear to the legislator in the formulation of the intention of the law, and that this way of governing contributes to the diversity of the sector. Does the Council of State see that by not following up with places of study helping to reduce the diversity of the sector, which the legislator wants to preserve precisely by designing governance in the way we do here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e296	Now we also follow up with places of study. There have been 4 000 more places of study since the coronary apathy, with a new coal continuing from the autumn of 2021. In them, there are also clear allocations to art study sites. I don't think it necessarily is that we don't prioritize it that way. In fact, you just need to apply for a place of study, you need an institution accreditation. It doesn't have this college, because they started at the wrong end, to say it a little simple. It means once again that they have to get it only when they're working with NTNU. I have to say that I am also very happy that the county has chosen to continue the support, because that means that you have the time to find a solution with NTNU. But that's the way to apply, because, as I said, even though we've created 4,000 more places of study, there's competition for these places of study. There's always a lot more to search for. That's why you have to see it in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e301	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e308	It means something where art is created. A former speaker from the Christian People's Party said something about seeing more moving images than ever. It means that some of those images are from smaller places, that they're from districts, from regions, so that you also reflect the reality you live in the north. As the committee has said, it is important that we have a unique art school in moving images in the Barents region. Since the accreditation in 2017, Nordland has lived unsafe art and film high school. I want to commend the school, its employees and also many committed local politicians who have been on for all the years – the four soon to come – who have gone since accreditation. It's taken time to find a port, an accredited institution, for what started as a college, but now is a college with a good bachelor. There have been several tracks in this process, but I think NTNU's artistic education is the right place for this school to belong to. The municipality of Nordland has borne considerable financial responsibility and has also said that it will do so in the future. Even the municipality of Vågan has said: We must make this survive. It has arisen in a special way, it has a unique position in our region. We're even willing to spend money on this. Why don't you just take NTNU and finance these colleges right away? No, they need to spend time on the process. I believe that the Committee – a unanimous committee – today gives a very strong signal to the government and, to the extent also to NTNU: use time, consider taking it within their framework. What would have made it much easier for Nordland art and filmmaking schools, was if the government said, we can actually also contribute. There is so little money, to a school that has arisen in a very special way, that the county council has carried on its shoulders until now, and that is a unique institution in the northern regions. We can make a contribution. They have to follow the rules for awarding places of study, and they have begun at the wrong end, says the Minister today. Yeah, okay, how many projects do we have? How many started at the wrong end? How many have been a college for many years and ready to become a college? It's so unique, it's so narrow. Could the government have contributed when the committee is so clear today, and the municipality of Nordland has contributed so much? It's a wish and a hope from a northerner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e323	Let me say a thousand thanks to the Committee, which has addressed the issue. I, like many of the Committee's members, recognise the efforts made to launch a new, unique offer, which I fully agree is of great importance in the region. It is based on local forces, but is also of greater regional importance, and, as many people have been involved, this is a unique national offer and therefore also of national importance. There's a lot of history stories about how this happened. There's a lot to say about the chicken and egg discussion – what came first, and what came last? – but someone had an initiative, someone had an idea, and someone had the drive to drive it forward and got it, if perhaps not quite after the book as the state wants it. What is a shame is that the matter has to be put at the head, as it has become, with a threat from the county council not to push this forward and put it down because it is not a county municipal responsibility. Then you turn around, because you think this is an important offer, and you assume a responsibility under signals from the Storting that after all, it's an important offer. I have to say that I have a great sense of the way in which the Council of State argues in the matter: that we have legislation to ensure predictability, to ensure that there are real priorities, to ensure state policy priorities on how to drive and develop the sector. But I also agree with the representative, Skei Grande, who was up here and drew the parallel to the news of yesterday's big business, namely the Northern Region Communication. One of the hubs of the northern part of the country has just been developing and strengthening higher education, and perhaps especially in North Norway. This would have been a golden opportunity to actually put it into that context and thus say that this we have to do in a different way. And maybe higher education is particularly important in the northern regions to just counteract what was one of the themes of yesterday's debate: how do we face the relative loss of the population in the north compared to the rest of the country? Let me end by saying that where there is political will, it is also possible to get to something, and as I said, I have the sense of the way the Council of State argues. But there are also examples of other municipalities that jump a bit out of the code. In a nearby municipality, the municipality of Bø, and with this state council, there was a slightly different approach. They chose to give generous gifts to those with the largest assets in the municipality by cutting the local wealth tax. So the state says, yes, but then we're going to set up with extra funds for this municipality because they didn't predict all the implications of the decisions they made. So there's a difference between municipalities and higher places of study in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e336	I would also like to say that I am very grateful for the Committee's clear and clear feedback. Like the rapporteur, we in the Central Party have a clear expectation that the Committee's feedback will be followed up as provided. When the high school of art and film went from a vocational school to a bachelor's degree, it was always with an intention that it should be taken over by university or college. As early as 2017, there was a dialogue with Nord University about acquiring an acquisition. It didn't work, and the county council has been in dialogue with the University of Tromsø for two rounds later without finding a solution, as one had hoped. Now, as we know, there's a fruitful and good dialogue with NTNU, and we all hope that it succeeds, and that a large and professional actor like NTNU can be involved in running the school. It is also correct, as several representatives have pointed out, that the county municipality has decided to cease operations. It's for economic reasons. I think many people will understand that a majority in a county, when there are limited operating resources available and the option is often to continue statutory tasks, such as: higher education, set up against other non-statutory tasks, then chooses to give priority to the first. But when that's said, I'm very, very happy and grateful both for the turn of the county council in Northern Ireland, and for the fact that an overall committee here in Stortinget is so clear that this is something you want to find a solution to. I wish all parties good luck and hope that we get to the goal of this as provided for in the input from previous speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e347	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e365	Although this is a curative matter in a hectic interview for Stortinget in an election year, it still deserves a few words. This issue emerged during the examination of the regional reform of the Stortinget, where it was found that there was actually no official Sami name for the Nordic counties listed in the law of division, as required by the formalia. For this reason, the undersigned precisely called on the county council of Northern Ireland to meet that challenge. I would like to thank the then county rapporteur, Sonja Alice Steen, who took that call and made sure that we have now come to where we are today. The Nordic counties have entries of the Sami population from all three major language groups, both northern Sami, lulesamian and southern Sami, in a long-term state. Nevertheless, it is particularly gratifying that, by recommending a lulesamic name, the responsibility of the county council to support the minority of the Lulesamian people is also made apparent. I am pleased that the entire committee joins that proposal and is pleased that we are now also given an official Sami name in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e376	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e393	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e402	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter, even if we do not put forward a unanimous vote. Ekeberg is perhaps the country's most famous plain, perhaps primarily because the world's largest football tournament, the Norway Cup, has been organized there since 1972. Throughout history, the plains and the surrounding area have had many different uses, from agriculture to the anchoring space for the airship ‘Norway’ in 1926. Today, waste is mainly used for sport and recreation and is part of Oslo's largest park area, which also includes Fire Mountain, Ballsletta and the Ekeberg Forest. This coherent area is an important recreational and leisure area, which, in addition to being the arena for several sports activities, also includes, inter alia, a sculpture park, a visitor's yard and an area of important natural values already protected. Ekebergsletta has, through history, evolved into what it is today, an area of great and versatile activity, and I perceive that the intention of the proposer with the proposal is to prevent the expansion of the area. Over the last 100 years, Oslo has been able to combine the development and use of erased to what it has become today. Already in 1937 the municipality secured part of the area to a park area. The municipality has now stated that it wants the Ekebergsletta to be protected as a protected landscape area under the Culture Memory Act or the Nature Diversity Act. Oslo City Council has stressed that this should not be done in a way that goes beyond the objectives of the open-air and sporting arena, but vice versa, in a way that does not contribute to comprehensive and complex bureaucratic processes for voluntary organisers. The Council of State and the administrator have pointed out to the municipality that the area does not meet the criteria for such protection, but that State protection as an open-air area is the way to maintain the values on the ground. Nor does the villager consider the area to comply with the protection criteria under the Cultural Memory Act. The Committee agrees that the growth of Oslo undoubtedly places free areas and green areas under strong pressure, but it is the municipality that has regulatory authority and it has used it in a way that has been able to develop and safeguard the various interests of Ekebergsletta in a historical light. The decision of the City Council testifies to the consciousness of its responsibilities, so that in the future these areas can also be a source of joy and recreation both for large parts of the population of the city and for those arriving. The fact that Stortinget was going to oversee a well-established local process seems as unwise in this matter as in other cases where Stortinget considered local processes and initiatives well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e417	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good report. I agree with every word that was said, because we all agree that Ekebergsletta has enormous value – which is difficult to describe in words – for this city, for Norway and through the Norway Cup really for the whole world. I think there's a very broad consensus in Oslo and here in Stortinget that Ekebergsletta will be taken care of for the future, in a way that ensures that we can still use it as an arena for outdoors and sports. But the fact that there is agreement today does not mean that there will be agreement on this in the future. So we believe that there might be good reasons to look at ways to give Ekebergsletta a stronger protection. We want to say from the Labour Party that we give full support to what the City Council is doing, with the red-green city council in the front, in the process of ensuring the deletion. That is why we believe that the proposal we are dealing with in Stortinget today is actually in the wrong order. This is a process that is currently being executed locally. I believe that an example of this coming at the wrong time, although the intention is very good, is that after it was promoted, the proposal has been changed to what we are going to vote on today – one acknowledged that it came out a little wrong. Although we do not vote in favour of the proposal as it exists today, we do not say that we are opposed to it. On the contrary, we believe that this is something we hope to achieve, but then the initiative should first be taken locally, and then we might get back to it in the Stortinget if this would become a process that locks itself. But I have very much faith and hope that both the government and the directorate will be positive about the processes that are being run locally, and from the Labour Party side, we will at least strongly encourage a positive attitude towards the work done by the City Council and the City Council in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e428	It is SV who has promoted this proposal for a representative, and we have done so because we believe that this is an important matter on which it is important to progress, and where work is in progress. It is important now to protect the free green areas we have, and the Ekeberg plain is such an area that we think should be protected in the future. There is constant pressure on Ekebergsletta from development interests, so it is not without reason this theme travels in Stortinget. There has, of course, also been a political debate on this in Oslo for many years, where parties, for example. The right has been against such protection. We believe it is important now that all good forces who want to protect the Ekeberg plain, join forces and work for it. That is also why the proposal in the Chamber has now been amended, because there is a process going on. But I want to say that on the SV side, we believe that protection is the solution needed for future generations – and it must be allowed to say early in the process – and we want to take an initiative and press on to find the solution. There's an ongoing discussion about municipal or state protection, but it's important now that all those who want to preserve the Ekeberg plain find a solution to this together, so that we can secure the important values. Ekebergsletta has been inalienable to those who live in the area, but I also believe for the entire Oslo area. There are many from all over the world who have been on Ekebergsletta and have a relationship with it, and it's an area that opens up to the kind of activities that make it possible for children and young people from all over the world to gather. That is why we want to promote the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e441	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e446	Many people have a relationship with Ekebergsletta, especially those who live in Oslo, of course. It's an important clearance area and green space. Also very many children and young people have been playing the Norway Cup at Ekebergsletta over the years and know well both where it is in Oslo and what it looks like. In this case, there is a question about who should be responsible for the administration, and who is the owner. I am pleased with the contribution made by Mr Aukrust, who is the representative of the City Council of Oslo, who is the owner, who is the planning authority. One has to ask the question: what threats does Ekebergsletta actually face? Development interests – yes. That's what Oslo Municipality and the City Council in Oslo are doing. First of all, this is a discussion about whom to protect against. It is then a political discussion about the City Council in Oslo, the City Council, actually wants a protection against itself. I hope it doesn't have to. We must have such confidence in local democracy. I'm very glad that the Labour Party posts say that we have to take this process from below, with the owner, in the elected bodies that manage Ekebergsletta, and that there's a job to do there. Then they have the right to take initiatives and apply to the state for subsidies for different protection purposes. The question is how much funding can be provided gradually. There are many national areas in queue for entry into a grant scheme. I think the Municipality of Oslo has the opportunity to manage Ekebergsletta itself, with the economy they have. The regulation of it – yes, I am absolutely open to contributing to the future regulation of Ekebergsletta, but that initiative must come from the Municipality of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e459	Red has long worked for the protection of Ekebergsletta. This is the urban area for people in Oslo's inner east and Oslo's south and one of our most important green lungs in a city that is heavily and rapidly congested and built down for the benefit of new buildings. When nature and animal life are also threatened by the degradation of their habitats, we must take care of the places where we still find wild animals, such as foxes, deer, grizzly, squirrels and a number of birds. The area that is now proposed for protection on Ekeberg could have been much larger, it has to be said. But two years ago, the Workers' Party, SV and the Greens' Environmental Party went in to build up the Ekeberghallen and the KFUM Arena. Therefore, the forest pit must now be cut down to accommodate a stadium with 3000 stands — not for the latitude but for the top football, and without any guarantee that the KFUM will ever be in use for a facility sized for the elite series. They can't afford it either, so to pay for the value, they're going to downgrade the erase for the benefit of 150 office spaces and a training center. Planned sound and light installations will have a significant impact on neighbours and wildlife in the area, but with the blessing of the Oslo City Council, they will be able to hold on until 11 o’clock in the evening of these facilities. We know there's a bad collective connection to Ekebergsletta. It will also apply to this CFUM Arena. What will it do with the use of the eraser when the parents of 100 children drive a car to pick them up in the nursery? There is no doubt that erased becomes a more unsafe playground, there will be more traffic and less bird's singing. The regulatory plans neither ensure that public bathing is built nor that ordinary people are allowed to use the facilities. What is ensured is the requirements of the law of the elite and the commercial activities to finance this. With this decision, both the Greens and SV ate a bit of the city's largest green lung in favor of a commercial project, for protests from both locals and Reds. The Oslo Council - supported by the Progress Party and the Right - gave away common values for private property development. Red supports the proposal on State protection. We would like to see protection applied to a part of the plaintiff as the City Council, with the support of the citizens – the Advance Party and the Right – has given away to a commercial developer, but we now hope that the City Council can get a little speed on matters, get the initiative and send the application, and then get a positive treatment of it in the directorate and secure the state protection of what is a very important free area for the people of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e474	I have to admit that I think it is a little strange that we have this matter here in Stortinget, especially on the initiative of SV, when it is the City Council with SV in the head that has not followed up their own plans for Ekebergsletta. This discussion has been going on for a while, and last August Oslo's political leadership agreed with the Ministry that if something was to be done in the direction of the proposers here promised, the municipality would itself send an application for Ekebergsletta and the surrounding areas to be defined as a State-secured open-air area. So it's kind of strange that we're discussing it today. But to the matter itself, protected by Ekebergsletta. Ekebergsletta is a very nice area for both sports and outdoor life, and I think we are quite a lot – you don't have to be from Oslo – who have memories and good experiences on Ekebergsletta. First of all, Ekebergsletta is a sports area and an area that has enjoyed its breadth for many, many years. Before it was sport, there was also no open-air area, there was agriculture and forestry there. But the criteria underlying protecting something under the Nature Diversity Act are not present here, and it has been known for quite many years by the City Council and by SV, at least five to six years, as far as I know. That feedback has been given to the City Council, but we are still discussing this today. I don't quite understand why SV, when they sit by a majority in Oslo City Council, with the red-greens, wants the state to intervene in local democracy on a matter that has been local for the most part for many years, and has been discussing quite violently locally. I hope this is not about the fact that the red-greens disagree with the municipality in Oslo, and that SV is trying on a small shortcut past the Workers' Party to put in place the policy SV wants, using Stortinget for it. For this, it really appears that SV wants to solve a local political problem by introducing this state protection. However, this is not the case in the case of protection processes; it is based on professional qualities. It usually starts with an assessment of natural qualities, e.g. I can't quite see what is to be protected on Ekeberg based on the Nature Diversity Act. What I see, on the other hand, is that it's going to be pretty hard to leave a protection according to the type that SV here wants to join in organizing the world's largest football tournament.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e485	Ekebergsletta is one of Oslo's most important sports and outdoor areas. Ekebergsletta and forest areas around have amazing qualities for sports, outdoors, cultural and natural experiences. I fully agree with the representatives of Kaski and Haltbrecken that this valuable area must be preserved in the future. In the proposal for a representative, the government would like to take the initiative to protect the Ekeberg plains as a protected landscape area. Both the Ministry of Climate and the Environment and the national administrator have assessed the possible protection as a landscape area after natural disasters. Both consider that the area probably does not meet the requirements for that type of protection. The Ekeberg plains will probably not satisfy the requirements for peace as a cultural environment after cultural memories, because the natural and cultural historical values do not have the contexts that normally give rise to a peace of the cultural environment. In recent years, the Ministry of Climate and Environment has met with the Municipality of Oslo on the protection and care of Ekebergsletta. In the meeting in the autumn of 2019, the Ministry of the Municipality of Ekebergsletta probably does not qualify for protection under the laws of nature, but it was pointed out that the area probably takes care of the requirements for being a State-guaranteed open-air area. The municipality was in favour of giving Ekebergsletta the status of State-guaranteed open-air area, and the municipality of Oslo was encouraged by letter of May 2020 to assess whether Ekebergsletta could become a State-secured open-air area. On that basis, the Ministry had a meeting of political leadership in the Municipality of Oslo last August, and the conclusion of the meeting was that the municipality would send an application for Ekebergsletta, and possibly parts of the surrounding area, to receive such status. The status of a secure open-air area means that the ownership of the area will still be with the municipality or other landowners, but a booklet on the subject will be ordered, which means that the area cannot be redispatched without the agreement of the Environment Directorate. In this way, Ekebergsletta, possibly also parts of the surrounding area, will be able to protect against major interference. Since the August meeting last year, there has been little progress, but two weeks ago, the municipality contacted the Environment Directorate and called for the launch of a concrete process to ensure this protection. The process is thus in progress, and the first meeting between the municipality and the directorate has been. On that basis, I do not see any need to adopt the proposals that are made here today, but I am allowed to point out that until such a state guarantee is possible, the City Council in Oslo, with SV in mind, is free not to build down the Ekebergsletta.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e508	My question to the Council of State is how he will follow up the enquiry that has come from the City Council in Oslo to secure the Ekeberg plain as a State-secured open-air area – if during the spring he will fulfill the wishes of the City Council and come back to it, for example. in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e513	Now that the Oslo City Council has finally asked for this – it is not that many days since – we can, of course, ensure that things are treated in a safe, quick and effective way. The question of State security of the open-air area is the Environment Directorate that is in charge, so I will not speed up the treatment there. But it is good that the municipality has now asked for this to be done, and then of course it will follow normal rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e518	The Environment Directorate is now under the authority of the State Council, and if the Council of State wants this area to be secured as a State-guaranteed open-air area, it has the opportunity to do so. So then my question is: does the Council of State want to secure the Ekeberg plain as a state-secured open-air area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e523	The normal division of labour between the legislative assembly and the executive authority is that the legislative assembly deals with the budget and the necessary legal bases, and that is the government and the agencies that take administrative decisions. Now it is not unusual for different parties in the Storting to decide that the government should take different decisions, either in such cases. However, in general, it is not a good starting point to rely on such a practice. So that's the way it goes about my post, that I clearly see that the Ekeberg plains have great values for outdoor life and for nature. It doesn't seem to be so much disunity about either, so I believe that what you have applied for here and asked for is something that is good for happening. But I think we have to let it follow the ordinary rules, and in the meantime, the representative Haltbrecken is free to discuss with his party colleagues in Oslo that they might not want to build down the Ekebergsletta.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e530	Then I take it as a signal from the Council of State that he actually wants to secure the Ekebergsletta as a state-secured open-air area with the emphasis you have on the values on erased, and then I look forward to such a decision at the Environment Directorate or in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e535	I am as a government councillor and also as a left-hand man very busy ensuring valuable green lungs and close to nature in all municipalities in Norway – that includes Oslo. I think it is good that responsible political authorities around our municipalities, and in this case SV, as far as they can, avoid building green areas. On a general basis, I would like to encourage the City Council in Oslo to let it be done, and I also thought that municipalities around should work to ensure that a person is able to cope with just the near-nature, important outdoor areas, etc. As I said in my previous answer, I am not going to advance a case that has to follow the standard rules of procedure, which I believe both SV and Stortinget are for one to follow. But it goes without saying that there is no doubt that the Ekeberg plain is a valuable open-air area and a valuable neighbourhood for the people of Oslo, the special areas of Oslo south and east, and I understand that there is a great deal of commitment around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e542	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e549	My first memory with Ekebergsletta dates back to the summer of 1986. Then I was a relatively young boy at the Norway Cup. I can say that both my team's efforts in the Norway Cup and definitely my own efforts in the Norway Cup that year were considerably less valuable than what Ekebergsletta is as an open-air area for the people of Oslo. This is a large and important near-nature area for a lot of people. If there's something in the last year, with the corona pandemic, that shows us, it's how important the everyday nature, the nature that's closest to where we live, is to people in Norway. It is therefore important that national authorities also contribute to the conservation of these natural areas. Now it is clear that Ekebergsletta does not have values that qualify for protection under the Nature Diversity Act, but this area definitely qualifies as a State-secured open-air area. An enquiry has now also been sent from the Oslo City Council to the Environment Directorate to secure this area for future generations. I hope that we will be able to do that, despite the fact that the majority today are voting down SV and the Environment Party of the Greens' proposal to secure this area as an important open-air area. It's basically about taking care of people's nature. I understand that the SV's proposal has already been taken up, so I don't have to do it, I can just say thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e575	Does anyone ask for the word on this matter? That's what the chairman of the committee, Ketil Kjenseth. Mr Kjeseth is, moreover, the rapporteur-in-chief.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e580	Yes, that was most of the reason I took the word. I don't think there's going to be any big debate on this matter, but it's a matter that's been going on over some time. The principle here is important, that there is a polluter who has to pay, and that's what this is all about, to crush the principle of a discount rate when the state has to step in to help someone like that. have lost oil on board. We've just seen examples of that. The Dutch ship «Eemslift Hendrika» came into operation in the Norwegian Sea early in April, and the Coast Guard had to step in and tow the boat into Ålesund, and there was a lot of heavy oil on board. That was one example. Another example we have seen internationally is that the giant ship ‘Ever Given’ crashed into the Suez Canal. That ship has been arrested, so it says something about how expensive such rescue operations are and what challenges it creates when one does not have a system for it. So I'm very happy that there's so much agreement to introduce this. It has been at the hearing and being treated for a few years, so this is good to put in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e589	I'm not going to take advantage of the full speaking time, but just say a few words about what might seem like a technical matter, but that's an important matter for the environment as well. In the proposition that Stortinget has to deal with today, I made changes to my promise to set up a law house that there may be a need for a detainee's interest under the pollution law of § 76, first paragraph. The collection rate shall be possible until the conditions for late payment are met. The main rule, as the Stortinget is well aware, is that pollution and sewage are illegal, and in cases where pollution and sewage occur, it has a responsibility to ensure that remedial and/or remedial action is taken. In the absence of any necessary action or non-fulfilment of measures, the authorities may take action on behalf of the responsible person. The costs and losses incurred by the impurity authority as a result of this work shall be borne by the responsible person. It's in line with the internationally recognized polluter pays principle. So I think, in the light of some of the experiences that the Coastal Agency has done when they've seen action as a result of acute pollution, that there's a need to establish a legal secret of deprivation interest. The Law Home shall contribute to the effective coverage of the impurity authority and to the maintenance of the principle of the payment of the impurity. That is why I propose to introduce a code that gives the authority of pollution access to demand abstinence interest in those cases where they have taken over the cleaning up of pollution caused by someone else, and I am glad that it seems that the Storting will join it. For the purpose of calculating the interest rate on withdrawal, MMF interest added at a rate of 4 percentage points shall be used as an interest rate. Law Homes shall ensure that impurity providers pay and that all costs incurred in cleaning up the pollution are reimbursed to the polluters. The interest rate shall also ensure that impurity covers the loss of interest of the impurity of the authorities as a result of the fact that they have not been able to dispose of the money themselves during the period in question. In some cases, there is no need to talk about large sums, but in large, serious pollution cases, where costs can rise in tens and about hundreds of millions of dollars, there will also be large costs for those who have to cover this in the meantime. I'm glad that the Storting seems to join those changes, and it will be important in the future to make sure that we can keep the forure of the payer principle in such serious cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e606	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e621	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e628	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. The Equality and Discrimination Act of 16 June 2017 aims to promote equality and, in particular, to prevent discrimination. Equality means equality, equal opportunities and not least equal rights. Equality requires the availability and organisation of the public sector. Access to employment is a key factor in gender equality. In Norway, there is a expectation of equal participation of men and women in education, working life and social life. But if we look around us in the world, it's far to the point that women have equal opportunities as men. Only 1 pst. by the poorest girls in low-income countries complete secondary education. We have seen that Turkey has left the Istanbul Convention, which seeks to combat violence against women, including violence in close relations, rape in marriage and female sexual mutilation. It's a big step backwards. Poland is now threatening immediately. So there are some dark clouds around the world when it comes to equality. In Norway, there is little difference in employment between women and men, only 5 pst. differences. More and more women are working full-time. Compared to 2013, 90,000 more women work full-time. In fact, there are 90,000 more women on full time now than it was in 2013, when the government took over. It shows that we are going forward, even though I know that in all the debates here the Labour Party is going to say that it is going in reverse. But we actually think that we're doing a good job on the gas. Similarly, the proportion of women working part-time is decreasing, which is now no more than 35 pst. Compared to other countries, there are also small pay differentials between women and men. This year, as part of the follow-up to the obligation of activity and presentation in the Equality and Discrimination Act, employers will for the first time identify differences in pay and involuntary part-time work. I have great expectations of the outcome of this law. The law also states that the social partners can sit down and go through their workplaces in order to analyse why they do not actually meet the objectives they set. The law means, among other things: that employers in public enterprises, regardless of their size, and in private enterprises with more than 50 employees now have a statutory obligation to carry out a salary mapping broken down by sex. They shall also monitor involuntary part-time. Here, as I said, the social partners have an opportunity to enter their business to look at the state of the situation. The pandemic has different consequences for different groups. Vulnerable groups are particularly vulnerable, and it is often those who have little or no connection to working life. The government is closely following developments. The Ministry of Culture has commissioned the Directorate of Children, Youth and Family to monitor the gender impact of the pandemic and, in particular, the measures taken. For studies, women are more exposed to domestic violence and isolation, and the pandemic is such a crisis. These include: information campaigns on assistance provision, statistics are being conducted, and follow-up guidelines have been provided to the police districts. The important thing under the pandemic is that workers at crisis centres are defined as socially critical personnel. So you have an alert eye on the pandemic, but we don't know yet the aftermath of how the pandemic will turn on equality. It is important that the government follows up that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e647	This is a solemn day in which we have finally got a gender equality policy statement in place and can have a day of gender equality policy debate in Stortinget – talk about the challenges we face, and what is at stake when it comes to gender equality in Norway. The Council's presentation was very good in many ways. I think it's covered and took up all the areas where we have challenges again. Those areas are many, and they are wide. It's not just gender equality that we need to get on with here in Norway, we need to do more when it comes to the broad diversity policy, and I think that the Council of State has highlighted in a good way by drawing up those issues. The problem is when we figure out what to do with it. There, I think the presentation was more recognizable from this right-wing government because there are a lot of good descriptions of problems, but little plans about what to do with them – a lot of talk, little concrete practice. It was about strategies and action plans to be developed and to come — it will be after eight years. Our gender equality challenges, whether they are that too many jobs part-time, that we have racism in Norwegian society, or that LHBTI people experience daily discrimination, need action and political action that comes with it. There are very few policy areas that need more investigation and more action plans in this way. We know in many ways what's going on. This year's gender policy statement is also done with the pandemic as a hindrance. This coronary apnea has also put a magnifying glass on the gender equality problems we have in Norway. In very many areas, it is the women who have stood in front in the fight against the pandemic. When we others were sent home to the home office, there were people who had to fold up their sleeves and go to work, who had to work long and demanding guards in difficult circumstances and put themselves at risk of being safe. The women – and the men – in the typical women’s prisons, health workers, cleaners, shopkeepers, keep the wheels running, are still at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic. The paradox is that it is these people who already have the worst pay and working conditions. It is in these professions that we find the most part-time, the most temporary, the worst pay and the worst pension, but also the most harassment, threats and violence. These ladies had deserved more than thank you in speeches and clapping from balconies. There is now a need for action. Both in the State Council's presentation and in the speech from the right-wing spokesman, it was recently mentioned that the part-time share has now fallen slightly. Yes, it does, but it's about the fact that when the red-green government left the government offices, we had just introduced ten changes to the law to increase the right to full-time. They were launched on 1 January 2014. It is the legislative changes that have now worked, but this government has done nothing — nothing, not a single act — politically to increase the full-time share. On the contrary, they have removed one of the instruments that we introduced at the time and that worked, and that was the full-time pot in the state budget. It's nice to point out that the proportion goes down, but it's not thanks to this government. I think that if the government meant anything about standing up for the ladies in the typical women's churches, there would have been a proposal on the table for more measures to move forward. It can't be that the part-time share we see today is a good level. No, we must go to war against part-time and temporaryity. The councils said we don't know enough about the consequences of the coronary apathy. The majority decided that the government would acquire knowledge of this and take action. It has not been done, but we have some knowledge, research carried out by the Equality Centre in Hamar, but we agree that we need more, and therefore the Labour Party also proposes in a proposal today that we systematically look at the consequences of this pandemic for equality in Norway and take action. I'm addressing the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e668	Then the representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e673	The minister gave a long and good account of things that were going on, and also things that are ahead of us, but to me and the Progress Party it is permissible to be a little impatient anyway. For my part, I have to say that I have called for the action plan against violence in close relationships on a number of occasions. I understand, of course, that Korona has affected the work in all departments, but I think it's stupid that you're just over a year off. There are many people working with these people who are in particularly difficult situations and who have had clear expectations that this action plan would have come. Governments also focus heavily on social control. I think that is good, but here too, the Progress Party is impatient. Some have been done, but we believe that there is still a lot that needs to be done. Governments also focus heavily on women. That's good, of course, but in order for us to have equality in this country, we also need to talk about the men. I think maybe there was strikingly little mention of men and young boys' challenges. We know, among other things. young men top the statistics on suicide. The fact that guys and men also have challenges in this country is something we have to talk about, and that we can't sweep under the carpet. But what I'm going to commend the Council of State for is that he got into the problem that you see internationally, you see a tendency for children's reality to explode around the world. There is also a potential impact on children in Norway. There I have also asked for the proposal for which the Progress Party was given a majority in 2018. Now, fortunately, the government has delivered something on it, and then we'll see if we agree that it's sharp enough. That's what the Progress Party will come back to. But now there are at least some important steps in Norway that also send an important signal to the big world that we do not accept that children are being married away. I see there are a number of suggestions in the room today. I can only notify you immediately that the Progress Party will not support any of those proposals. Part of the problem we might come back to in the revised budget, so we'll take that. However, it is important for me and the Progress Party to make some proposals that I believe are important in terms of equality, which we hope to have a majority in this session. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to abolish the limitation period for sexual acts against children. And then there was one thing I specifically focused on about women's day, which I hope the other representatives here can take a debate on in their parties in order to support, because it's actually also about equality. This concerns the issue of the ban on children's ehijab in primary school. Children are not sexual objects and should not be allowed to cover themselves in a free democracy. Furthermore, the third part of the parental leave applies. It wants the Progress Party to abolish. Of course, parents should be allowed to decide about their own everyday life. We have now tried this for a while, and everything suggests that this is not equality, rather on the contrary – more and more women are taking out unpaid leave, and still the situation is such that fathers today do not have the same rights as mothers and women. That is why the Advance Party also wants to grant independent exit rights to fathers. These are some of the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted, and which we believe are important for equality. Unfortunately, we were unable to bring the whole room with us as it was about the issue of co-ordination bottling, but we managed at least something there too. So my hope is that we can also agree on something here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e696	I also thank you for the statement that the minister made last week. As so often before in the Norwegian gender equality context, I am turned off, and I am glad that there is active work in the whole country on this problem. At the same time, I know of a renunciation because it's still so much to work for here at home, and not least internationally, where equality and the women's case have had a setback that scares me. The minister was in many areas in which I am passionate about, whether gender equality or gender equality in terms of choice of study and occupation, involuntary part-time work, parental leave, living conditions of disabled persons, age discrimination, rights and opportunities of LHBTQI persons, negative social control etc. The Minister mentioned initially that this year employers will for the first time monitor wage differences and involuntary part-time work as part of the activity and reporting obligation. Both the Minister and I believe that the obligation of presentation and activity will be a good tool for raising awareness of Norwegian businesses, and that active targeted and planned work is needed to promote equality and prevent discrimination. Unfortunately, there is a great weakness in the system. 98 pst. by enterprises in Norway have between 20 and 50 employees, and all of them are not covered by this scheme. A group of ministers mentioned in the statement are immigrant women, as they have lower participation in employment than the general population. It is particularly low among female refugees. The reason for this, as the minister said, is complex, but I believe that job-oriented actions as well as the relevant training courses will be incredibly important. Last year, Bufdir presented a report, a knowledge summary of immigrant women's links with the labour market. The report looks at Norwegian and Nordic research in the last ten years and finds that good measures such as Jobsjansen, labour market training courses and talent programmes are useful to increase the potential of immigrant women in working life. In other words, we need more targeted action to get more immigrant women into work, which is, of course, the path to economic autonomy and freedom. We have to keep doing this. Another topic that concerns me and concerns me is violence in close relationships. There's especially now in these corona times reason to be extra worried about it. The Minister stated in his statement that the government had a campaign running from December 2020 to January 2021 against victims of violence, in particular with a migrant background, or known by victims of violence. The aim was to inform about the crisis centre offer. But is it just me that responds to the short time frame for that campaign? How wide is it when the information campaign had such a short duration? The government also has a few–three action plans, including: Incited by us in the Central Party, which aims to combat racism, hate disorders, prejudice, harassment and discrimination. These action plans are incredibly important to prevent and reduce prejudices and to combat racism, discrimination and harassment, and they will be important for improving the success of gender equality and diversity in the future. However, it must be said that it is very strange that the government is launching an action plan against discrimination and hatred against Muslims while continuing to provide million-dollar support to the Human Rights Service. It is simply paradoxical, unprincipled, inconsistent, illogical and self-contradictory, especially all the time the minister was one of those who might have been at the forefront of the barricades to remove support for the HRS. I would like to mention that to me, as for most people in this room, certainly everyone, it is very rewarding to work for more equality and against less discrimination. I promise Norwegian equality policy and our actions internationally as best I can in the role of the Storting WPL Ambassador. Unfortunately, too, there are still plenty of things to raise here at home, such as the fight against hateful statements, the equality issue is actually ensuring that fathers and mothers are treated as parents in law and practice, or it is always worth noting whether we politicians in various small and large cases really do well to ensure that different groups, such as minorities or those with disabilities, are actually involved as much as possible on equal terms with everyone else in our society. The tasks are many enough for all those who fight for equality and against discrimination, and all of our duties are to follow this up all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e721	Equality is about freedom, justice and equal opportunities. And equality doesn't come of itself. It is fought through the movements from below and through active equality policies. Equally, gender equality is weakened when the government makes a historical tightening of the abortion law, or when the government opens up more profit and revenue in well-being, giving more pressure to pay, pension and work conditions for employees in women’s dominated health and care professions. But the most acute threat to equality now is the consequences of the coronary crisis and the lack of action to remedy it. We see more reports of more violence in close relationships. We see that the equal pay gap for the first time in many years has increased, last year, and we even see in a Fafo report that women do more of the job at home even though both parents have home offices. Now, hopefully, we're going slowly, but surely out of the worst crisis, and then we're going to have to put on the equality glasses in the reconstruction. If not, we're in danger of having negative, lasting equality consequences of the time we've been through. The least we can do then is to ensure that equality becomes part of the further work of the Korona Commission, because in the Commission's report equality is only mentioned, even if, after the mandate, they were to investigate the social consequences of the crisis. And it's too typical that the gender perspective is forgotten when the really big issues are on the agenda. Therefore, SV is proposing today to ask the government to ensure that the gender impact of the crisis is investigated in both the short and long term, and that knowledge-based recommendations are put into action to address these impacts, for example. by clarifying the mandate of the Commission. Women’s dominated professions have been at the forefront of the crisis and have perhaps been hit hardest by the crisis – in health and social matters, but also in many service professions. The jokes they get are well deserved, but as we know, no bills are paid with applause. That's why the time is overdue to make a rise for the working life of these women, because without their work Norway would really have stopped in this crisis. For this reason, we also propose to ask the government to provide full-time measures, better health and care staffing, co-operation of the partners for equal pay and labour market measures and sectoral programmes for women's dominated professions, including in the private sector. The crisis is affecting equality, particularly internationally. In many places, the pandemic is used as a pretext to defeat sexual and reproductive health and rights, and women are financially affected by the consequences globally. That is why we are proposing today that the government should take on a driving role internationally to contribute to the fight against this. But the last year has not just been about the Korona. We've also seen massive and widespread popular commitment to racism. That commitment is important and must lead to political action. When we see that minority people have less chance of being called in on a job interview, police stop more often, stand at the back of the queue in the rental market, or are more often denied entrances to outdoors — yes, there is racism at the structural level of our society. Although each action is not racistally motivated, the result becomes a racist structure. Now is the time to recognise structural racism in Norway, put in place more research and facts and then move on to do something about it. And in such a tough debate as the racism debate has become, we need such a common reference framework. That is why SV has proposed earlier in our proposal to put down a commission that will do just that, while we are proposing a number of concrete here-and-now measures as well. Finally, the largest minority in our society are people with disabilities. That's why it's so disappointing that this government is probably making a gender equality statement for the Storting without having incorporated the UN Convention on the Human Rights of Persons with Disabilities into Norwegian law. For that the Party of the Minister for Equal Opportunities, Left, has once again this year agreed to vote down. All of this really shows the need for a new red-green government that has equality as a political main project, if we are to get something done with the major gender equality challenges of our time. With that, I take up the SV's proposal in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e742	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e747	For the Christian People's Party, it's always important to point out that equality is about everyone having equal opportunities, not necessarily that everyone should choose the same. Equality is about gender not being a barrier to individual choice of education, occupation, participation in child care and participation in other social services. In an equal society, therefore, there must be respect for the individual's choice of lifestyle. We can adopt laws, put strategies and address structural challenges. However, equality is not something we can politically push through to see the results we want, as the parties on the left would often want. It will always be largely about raising awareness, about attitudes, and about changes that need to grow beyond time. In the same way, I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is part of a government that is offensively committed to strengthening equality. We have strengthened the obligation of activity and reporting, and this year, among other things. identification of the use of involuntary part-time work and gender salary mapping is part of this. We will present a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. We have started a major national effort to get more men into kindergarten and primary school and to get more applicants with immigrant backgrounds. We support the programmes ‘Women and Technology’ and ‘Human in Health’, we have established a low-threshold service for dealing with issues of sexual harassment, and we have put in place gender-neutral job titles in the public sector – just to mention something. Because the list is long. Equal pay for equal work is a matter of justice. It is an overall objective that everyone should be able to become financially independent, both in the working years and at retirement age. That is why the fight for equal pay is so important, and also the fight against involuntary part-time. It is therefore gratifying that under this government there are 90 000 more women employed in full-time jobs. It is also important to provide services for unpaid care and not least for a generous and flexible parental leave, cash support and all the other rights we know in various ways ensure the right to adapt working life to family life. If that's what we in the Christian People's Party are burning for, it's precisely that the working life should adapt to the family, not the other way around. Being able to combine working life with children in a good way is something both women and men want. It is crucial for the gender equality issue, and it is probably also one of the key prerequisites for more children to be born in our country. Unfortunately, we still see trends to the opposite, that especially women feel that they should work as if they do not have children, and behaving as if they do not have jobs, and that they are being overlooked in promotions because they have been at home with their children for periods of time. If we look a little further into the world, for example to the United States, it has come to the conclusion that large, well-known tech companies arrange so-called "egg-freezing parties" and pay young female employees to freeze their eggs, so that they can wait until later in life to have children, and rather bet everything on the job in the 20s and 30s. You can shake a little bit of it's head, but this reality is sadly closer to us than we think. In an article in Today's Business a few Saturdays ago, we could read about the supplier Frøya Life, who would like to work with Norwegian working life to offer women to freeze eggs at the employer's expense. These kinds of schemes are pure cynicism, and women should say clearly from, because that is the opposite of feminism. It's the opposite of respect for the female body, and it signals anything but recognition of how important it is to our society that people have children. This development takes us as society and the whole equality in the wrong direction, and I have to say I'm worried about the future if this is the way we go. Let it be clear: it's the working life that has to adapt to women's biology, not the other way around. Being a parent should be seen as a good quality in working life, which makes workers more suitable for taking on managerial duties. I believe and hope that the attractive jobs in the future will have more room for workers to be whole people with all that it entails. The Christian People's Party will make it clear that good family policies are in no way opposed to good equality policies. It is, in fact, linked if the principle of equal opportunities and freedom of choice is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e769	The management of the coronary crisis has shown the injustices of our society and also how political choices increase the gap between them at the top and the rest of society. Crises often go hardest on those who are exposed to society from before: people with disabilities, minorities and not least women. It's not a coincidence, but a consequence of bias that was there before the crisis. Since these crises are raging and increasing class divisions, a policy is needed to counteract this. That's why Red proposes a long-term plan of action for groups that are particularly hard hit by unemployment, to get people back to work. Many immigrants work in vulnerable sectors, but we must realise that immigrants' positions that were exposed are also linked to discrimination and racism. Last summer, thousands of people, not least young people, took to the streets because they've had enough of racism. Today, Red proposes that the government monitor discrimination and racism in working life in order to take concrete action in terms of recruitment processes, recruitment and anti-racism in these contexts. We also see that the pay gap between women and men has increased in the last year. It is not natural force that causes this, but it is differential policy that causes wage differences to increase when there are crises. Socially important occupational groups such as health professionals, cleaners, kindergarten workers and others are vital to all of us. These are often women-dominated and low-paid professions. In the last year, many people have had their eyes up to the point that many of those who do the most important jobs in our society, often serve at least, are often underpaid and overworked, but pay cuts are not reflected. These workers deserve and need full and regular jobs, not least a reduced normal working time up to the six-hour day, in order to reduce the work load on their bodies and not become ill with the work loads. I hope that the majority of the population will support the Redt's proposal for dialogue with the social partners on wage developments in social critical professions, especially women's dominated and low-paid professions, in order to find out what the State can contribute by means of appropriations to ensure a necessary and fair pay gap. Without the state making money, it just becomes empty talk what the Progress Party and Siv Jensen have brought about a paylift for nurses and teachers. Then someone has to turn up the money, and that's what Stortinget has to do – by voting in favour of Red's proposal – and then engage in dialogue with the parties on how to distribute it between different groups. Even before the crisis, violence against women was a major problem. Some 150 000 people in Norway, mainly women, experience violence in close relationships every year, but there has not been a significant increase in police and crisis services in the last year. It underlines the need for increased investment. In its statement, the Council of State said that we should combat violence in close relations, that an action plan should now be drawn up. The same thing was promised last year at this time. No additional appropriations and measures have been made to meet the needs. If the government is to have credibility, funds must also be allocated to an action plan against violence in close relations, and it proposes Red in the UK today. We do not achieve real equality when freedom and security are threatened. It's about the freedom to choose even if you don't want any, one or two or more children, and also about the security of having a fixed income. Gender equality is also a question of cleaning workers, health professionals, hotel staff, shopkeepers, kindergarten workers and many others who are underpaid, overtime and who deserve better pay and better working conditions. The Stortinget cannot hide behind and point to the parties. We also have to take responsibility by offering and setting up funds to ensure a pay gap, because the employers' side is the municipalities through the municipalities of KS and Oslo, and then there is the state on the other side of the table for hospital employees and other important welfare professionals. Here, the Storting must take a joint responsibility and go from word to word. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e786	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has drawn up the proposals he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e791	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the contributions that have been kept so far, for the fact that the Storting is quite in agreement with the breadth and depth of the statement, and that we are united in achieving equality in Norway across different dividing lines. When I made the last year's contributions to the debate, I was not alone concerned about how the pandemic could turn out for equality. The government has followed developments, and we are concerned about the setback for gender equality both in Norway and, in particular, internationally. Here, in addition to the presentation, I would like briefly to take into account the consequences of the pandemic on violence in close relationships, for people with disabilities and for negative social control. There are important things for all of us, and I see that there are several people who have affected this. I think all the parties are concerned about this. It also says something about what we have in common, and that what we have in common in terms of equality, is far more than the small thing that divides us. We may disagree on which measures work or do not work, on what came early, and what came too late, but I think we all agree on the objectives. Unfortunately, there will be no less violence in close relations during crises, on the contrary. Nevertheless, there is a decline in the use of crisis centres during the most severe periods of infection prevention. I would think that it is not necessarily related to the fact that violence has gone down, but that it is more difficult to seek help. This is also why staff at the crisis centres were defined as critical social personnel. The government is now also investigating legislative changes and assessing measures to improve the quality of supply at crisis centres. We see that there are fewer reports relating to violence in close relationships. It is difficult to conclude unambiguously whether the pandemic has led to fewer incidents in 2020 than in 2019. The decrease may be due to natural variation and other services do not reveal and report to the police, but we also need to see this in the context of the fact that it may be difficult to seek help under the pandemic. The forthcoming action plan to prevent and combat violence in close relations will take into account the experience we are now making in the context of the coronary epidemic and will have a separate chapter on crisis preparedness. Persons with disabilities, as mentioned by several representatives here, are particularly severely affected by the pandemic. Many are at risk and especially at risk of infection. Many have experienced reduced services or a complete lack of practical assistance, day care and relief services. More disabled children and young people have been without a good training offer over time. This has been addressed and addressed by the respective State Councils. But there have been several bad stories about people with developmental disabilities who have been isolated because of illegal visiting bans. As you know, the Ministry of Culture has commissioned Bufdir to assess how the Action Plan for Equal Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities can be updated and further developed in the light of the coronary apathy. The IMFI figures show an alarming increase in requests for negative social control. If we include other categories such as: threats and violence, fear of coercion, involuntary survivors abroad, etc. is the number of cases of minority advisors 723 in 2020. It is far more than in 2019. The increase is 33 p.m. These are alarming numbers, for there are many children and young people who are unable to make physical contact and get help. After all, I have, as you are familiar with, even through my own growth known on the body the consequences of negative social control, and I have said many times and repeat again that absolutely everyone in Norway should have equal opportunity for a free life. This government is going to set up for everyone in the process, and I also know that the Storting will do so in a cross-political way. But then we know that not everyone has equal opportunities. We must be aware of that. In fact, minority advisors say that the anti-infection measures are being used as a new control tool against young people who are subjected to negative social control. For young people who are already living with severe restrictions, the strict restrictions on the protection of infectious diseases became another barrier to their freedom. The fight against negative social control is one of the most important equality struggles of our time. The government is working on a new action plan against negative social control and honour-related violence. The size will be given an overall explanation of the gender impact of the coronary apathy in the Ministry of Culture’s budget proposal for 2022. I guess we're going to have even better overview than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e819	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e824	The Minister for Gender Equality also mentioned the LHBTI area in his presentation and was there, quite correctly, in the face of the challenges that LHBTI people experience in their everyday lives from discrimination and invisibility. In the statistics on countries where it is good to live for LHBTI people, Norway has sunk from second place to fifth place under this government, and there are five concrete reasons for this, among others. the fact that we have not implemented a ban on so-called homotherapy. A year and a half ago, we discussed the Workers' Party's proposal to ban homotherapy in this Chamber. Then the then Minister for Gender Equality, Skei Grande, said that during the winter, i.e. in the winter of 2020, one thing was to come back to the Stortinget. Since then we have not heard anything, and the time has passed. What really happens to the investigation of bans on homotherapy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e829	I can assure the Storting that the government is working on this matter, and you are also investigating the human rights consequences of this. It concerns both ways, because it also concerns the issue of freedom of belief, which is also a human right, and it concerns another important right, which is freedom of expression. The government is focused on this. I can assure Storting that the work is in no way delayed. I have met representatives of LHBTIQ people – it was last week or the week before – and discussed this, and we intend to come back soon with this when we have concluded. So the government doesn't care, the government has an impact on this. It is important that we do all of these jobs legally, so that we ensure that what we come up with, stands up legally, both against the Norwegian Constitution and against international human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e834	A year and a half ago it was said that this would not take long, that it would take a few months. It is also the legal expert who has said that this is a good investigation. But I think for the government it's about having to decide, and here there's no doubt that there's different opinions within the government, with a Christian People's Party that doesn't want to ban homotherapy at all, but hopefully other parties that want it. Now it is that we are approaching the end of the session, and matters that are to be decided upon by this great crowd must soon be promoted. Is it the case that the right-wing government is going to promote a case where you propose a ban on homotherapy – or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e841	At the beginning of that question, the representative was involved in our different views, and at least I can assure the representative that I believe my view and the representative's view is quite similar in this area. So it's important that we do the legal investigations properly, so now the government hasn't concluded on that question, because first of all we have to get the legal sides of this. We have a lot of pressure on this, and once the legal sides are mapped and defined and the space for action is clear, the government will of course make a decision. When that decision is taken, I can't shoot now, but when it is done, we will of course come back to this question both in public and to the Storting, in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e846	The Council of State was concerned that social control was an important theme for him. The party of progress and I believe that the children's hijabe symbolize values that radically break with our basic values in Norway. The garment can be said to be legitimized by Islam as an active action to avoid excavating the luster of the opposite sex. Barnehijaben represents a sexualisation and view of children who are simply not compatible with Norwegian law, and it may also be one of the most visible forms of social control of children shown in Norway today. Does the Council agree with the Advance Party that this should be banned in primary school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e851	Let me just say that I was born into a Muslim family, I've grown up with this garment and have had a different view of this through my own growth. As an adult, and also as a politician and Minister for Gender Equality, I believe that this garment does not belong to children. It limits children's freedom to unfold. It's kind of about what we personally mean and how we perceive the garment. From there to go to law-enforcement is another type of step for what kind of society we want. But I, as a politician, as a minister for equality, as a politician for the Left, and I personally, as born and raised in a Muslim family and immigrated in this environment, believe that this garment should not be used on children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e856	The Council of State itself was concerned about a worrying trend under the corona, with increased reporting by the IMFI on social control. I think it was an increase of 33 pst. in registered cases and concerns from children and young people. My question is what the government has done, and what measures have been taken to meet the worrying trend of the corona.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e862	A number of measures have been taken both to monitor and to follow-up through the different departments, through the Ministry of Children and the Family, for example. mental health, and through the Ministry of Justice in legal matters. I think we have to admit that the equality that maybe a lot of people take for granted in Norway in terms of basics, basics, values, like falling in love with someone and spending time with the one you're in love with -- which I think maybe the Nordics, if we're going to classify ourselves in some terms, maybe take a little too much of a given -- it's in a way not so given to a minority population who have migrated to the country, even though their children were born and raised in Norway. Under the pandemic, parental control is increasing, and that is what we see — that this pandemic has also helped to strengthen negative social control of children and young people. We are concerned about this, we are further following up on the measures taken by different governments, and we are also going back to the proposal for 2022 to give a comprehensive explanation of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e869	Everyone here understands and sees and knows that equality work is going backwards internationally. It also applies to parts of international sport, for the jam, it became clear this weekend that the International Ski Association once again rejects the application for girls to compete in skiing. It is quite clear that FIS does not have this gender equality aspect, does not care about it, and it is also clear that they have also not come to realize that the girl jumpers are at least as good as the men jumpers were only in 2012, but the master jumpers have been allowed to compete in skiing for a minimum of 60 years. The first time it was the World Championship in skiing was in 1972. What does the Minister of Sports think about this refusal and the positions of the International Ski Federation, and what does he think Norway can do to pursue this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e876	Thank you for the question. This shows why equality and gender equality are important, and why the representative addresses it is important. Yesterday there was a decade mark for the date when Grete Waitz went away, and she could not be allowed to run long in her time because she was a woman. You didn't think women could run long. Then she went in when she was really at the end of her career, and ran the New York Marathon when they opened up for it, and she won. I think she beat the record with a few minutes. And then she won the New York Marathon all nine times. She paved the way for women who were just Maren Lundby. I remember that when I became a state councillor last year, it wasn't long after she hit to jump in a big hill. You took some action to let her do it. The resistance is great all the way. So now she wants to go skiing, but they're stopping her anyway. Thanks to Grete Waitz and thanks to Maren Lundby taking these games, we can be drivers to achieve full equality in sports as well. I think those who run this should go by themselves, look at the story and choose which side they want to stand on, even in the years to come. So thank you for the question, and thank you to the representative for taking it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e887	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for a good presentation that was widely welcomed, in all the important areas of equality and anti-discrimination policy. In the presentation, the Council of State listed a number of action plans, messages and strategies that have mostly been dated. It's a pleasure, isn't it? But when it comes to the news of human rights for people with developmental disabilities, it's very quiet. It was actually to come before Easter last year, and then it was to come before Easter this year, but we still know nothing. That is why I would like to ask the Council of State when this paper is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e894	I can't answer that exactly. I have to say that I also think the representative sees that the government as such and the Ministry of Culture in many ways have been in a very demanding time to deal with a crisis for a sector that has been hit very hard. Much of the resources in the ministry have been used simply to deal with the coronary crisis. This applies to culture, volunteering and sport as well as to the disabled and gender equality field. So there are a number of things that are unfortunately delayed as a result of using the resources that are available to deal with the coronary crisis. Then it's important for the government that people with developmental disabilities get help and support to make choices and live their lives in harmony with their own will and wishes, that everyone should be the head of their own lives. In the Single European Act, we are just working on improvements in the use of state instruments that can help to ensure that people with developmental disabilities have their human rights in practice. We'll get back to this in an appropriate way when we're done with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e901	The cord shift is over. The President has taken a much greater interest in, and eagerness to take a line than the debate has given way to, but takes note of the fact that it is possible to subscribe to the speaker list for 3 minutes. So the speakers who are given the floor below have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e908	Initially, I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good review of gender equality in a broad, national, international and corona perspective. For me, one of several good parameters for gender equality in Norway is the proportion of women who work full-time, and here we see a very good development. For women, the part-time share has decreased from about 40 pst. in 2013 to 35 pst. in 2020, as we have heard earlier in the debate. In the rest of my post, I want to take the subject up under the heading of action against racism and discrimination. We all agree that everyone should have equal opportunities regardless of background. Different forms of racism and discrimination are involved in pushing people into the outside world, and this can have major consequences for individuals. And we know that today there is discrimination based on ethnicity and religion in schools, in working life and in society. The government has significantly increased its efforts against racism and discrimination in recent years. One example of this is that the government has established a system of subsidies against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. This is the first of its kind. The action plan against racism and discrimination based on ethnicity and religion is important. The same is true of the Action Plan against Discrimination and Hatred Against Muslims, which came in the autumn of 2020, and not least the Action Plan against Anti-Semitism, which was presented on the Holocaust Day in January of this year. All these action plans provide a good basis for systematic and wide-ranging action against discrimination, and several departments are involved in the work on the different plans. Action plans are presented and rolled by all governments. Action plans are the guide to action and action plans are the basis for many budgets. The Tritebergstuen would like to complain that there are many plans, but as a former marine officer, I think it is safe to have a good map to navigate after. The paradox is that the Labour Party itself, in a loose proposal today, proposes to draw up even more knowledge base. It is not the responsibility of minorities to combat prejudice and discrimination, where we all share a shared responsibility. We see a world changing, and knowledge is our foremost means in the fight against hate and disbelief. Although the general population becomes more tolerant towards minorities, we see some environments where more people express themselves more hatefully than before, and we have to take seriously what minorities in Norway tell us. There are attitudes that we have to fight. That is why we must continue to work systematically to combat all forms of discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e925	I would like to take up the thread from the representative of the Supreme Court in the change of line and the government's work with a big message about human rights for the developing population. Yes, we know that the government is working on it, because it has ordered the Storting itself – right against the voices of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, but decisions are now taken. The problem is that we don't know when it comes. Now, both the Workers' Party and others are starting to wonder if it comes at all during this large-scale period. The answer to the Council of State may indicate that, unfortunately, this is not the case. Among those who wonder, are those who perhaps wait the most, namely the developmentally impaired themselves. Last week the Norwegian Association of Developmentally Disabled posted an article on their websites expressing disappointment that the message has not arrived: ‘When the notification of fundamental rights to people with developmental disabilities has not been notified, the non-will, commitment and priorities of government teams indicate.’ I expect that the NFU has not taken this out of the air, since the first decision during Storting's specific order was that the organisations should be involved and get fixed contact points into departmental departments. The Council of State, on its side, said that there is an important message, precisely because it focuses on concreteising the human rights basis in different areas, including self-determination, equality and participation. Yes, that's exactly what Storting's order is all about. The Stortinget has rarely been so specific about what we expect a big message to contain. It was because a good deal of work has already been done on the part of the so-called Rights Committee, both in terms of pointing out the lack of rights and in terms of concrete proposals on how to end discriminatory practices. This concerns the right to express our opinion, and there we also had the relatively sharp criticism of defence practices by the National Audit Office. It concerns the right to education, work, access to health care, the right to owner-occupied housing, recreational activities and the pursuit of life views. One decision was not attached to the message itself, namely the right to a second year of higher education. That decision the government has chosen to ignore completely. The councils referred to the pandemic, and we understand that, of course, but June 12 is three years since the decision of the Storting. I expect the Council of State too to think it is time for that message to arrive soon. I had, as I said, intended to ask the Council of State to answer in concrete terms: Is it coming, or does it not come before the Greatness separates? But now I unfortunately know that the answer is no, it's not coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e943	Yes, we are one of the world's most equal countries, but we have challenges in equality and discrimination. That has been confirmed in the debate here. I choose to stop at women's health, which no one has mentioned so far. Because there is a need for more knowledge about diseases affecting women more often than men. Some of these diseases have been exacerbated during the pandemic, such as: eating disorders, especially in young girls. But we also have women who are more often affected by rheumatic disorders and multiple sclerosis. There are women who get heart attacks, but have symptoms other than men, and we need to know more about that. I want to draw up a quote from the Sanity Women. It's an organisation that contributes a lot of money to research on just women's health. Secretary-General Grete Herlofson said in an interview that women’s health is often associated with bikini medicine: breast and abdomen. That's why I'm just saying that we need to see women's health in a larger and more comprehensive perspective. The government has set down a public sample, a NOW, on women's health, and it will be completed in the summer of 2022. I really have great expectations for that investigation. It is part of the follow-up to the promise to improve women’s health, presented on 8 March 2019. It shall contribute to providing more knowledge of women’s health, and not least knowledge of minority women’s health. When we talk about bikini medicine, at least we have to say it's worrying that many minority women choose not to vaccinate against HPV virus. Although the cervix programme is strengthened, we know that there are many who refuse to go to the doctor and get checked out. That's why it's also important. The Norwegian Research Council has also received funding. They will focus on research on women’s health and gender perspective. Actually, it was $15 million. it was granted in 2020. So we get knowledge. Politics must be based on knowledge. That's when we get the right measures and the right actions. Finally, I just want to say that maybe the biggest concern after the pandemic is negative social control. We're back to the closed homes, closed environments, when we don't get insight. There I am concerned that the government will quickly get in place with an action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e960	When the majority of people voted against equalising the human rights of people with disabilities with our other human rights, it showed how far it is left, and how many people still believe that the rights of people with different types of disability are about social and health issues – and not about discrimination and gender equality. It's been five years since the rights committee gave its position, NOU 2016: 17 On the same line, and three years since the Stortinget asked the government to prepare a big message on how fundamental rights should be guaranteed also for people with developmental disabilities. I think it's that group of society that is most discriminated against, that has the least self-determination in their own lives, where society at all is not adapted to them, but others. So it's been five years since this NOU made a lot of good proposals, and then I hear the council say it's been Korona, and it's hit the department. Yes, it has, but the jam has affected the services of people with developmental disabilities as well. Many of them have, contrary to the law, been refused a visit even in their own homes. And exactly that shows how crazy the attitude is still in many places. You look at people with disabilities or developmental disabilities and think, as long as you need public help, we can decide about you. You don't see a difference between a nursing home and your own home. These are also people who, more than anyone else, will be affected in such situations as we now have, but there were no systems to take care of it – there were no systems to take care of it. That is why we need to get these measures in place. This groceries message should have been on the table a long time ago. It would have been possible to work it out before the pandemic came, if it had been a priority area for the government, but unfortunately it doesn't look like that. I also want to point out something else within this field, which I am very concerned about. The equality center at Hamar runs something they call VIP courses. Then ‘VIP’ is a term meaning ‘important, interesting person’. It's a course plan for people with developmental disabilities to learn how to take care of themselves, because we know that many of them are victims of abuse. Many of them are subjected to deception. And they get to go on course, so they learn to say no and deal with difficult situations. This is also part of the gender equality work that the Equality Centre has taken on, and now it is time that the government also delivers in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e975	I would like to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation and also thanking you for a good debate. There are many important things that have been taken up here today. As many people have experienced, the last year has been a test and has done many of the challenges we are discussing here, even more demanding because much more than other things of both our time and our lives have moved from the outside into the private home within the four walls of the house, which means that the most vulnerable can often be even more vulnerable, whether it be violence in close relationships or, for example, violence. social control, which was also addressed by the Council of State. Some of those phenomena have seen an increase in concerns for already, and I fear that we will see a chain leap effect when the restrictions we have are over. This applies not least to children who are sent abroad. We have discussed several times here the report that came last year, that 415 children were sent abroad during a two-year period, and I fear that part of the type of activity will both be resumed and increased to an extent in the time that comes. We can't have that difference in what kind of rights you have, what kind of freedoms you experience in Norway, depending on whether you're born and raised in an ethnic Norwegian family, a family with healthy social values, or whether you have a migrant background. It is unfortunately the case for a number of environments, and many individual ships, children and young people, are affected by this. I think it was the representative of the Christian People's Party who said that the goal should not be that we all make the same choice, but that we all have equal opportunities and a similar starting point. That is something that I and the Progress Party also support. The goal of equality is not for all to choose the same things, but for you to have the opportunity to make the choices in your life and go in the direction you want. Finally, I would like to mention what I think is part of the derailment in the debate. I disagree with what SV said – that private actors in health care make you less equal. On the contrary, these actors are creating livelihoods and jobs to the delight of thousands of both women and men across the country. I'm also critical of what the Center Party said about the Human Rights Service. I'm glad the government is continuing that support. I believe that a broad debate, several nuanced votes, gives us a better debate. Then I would like to say that I agree with many of the things that the representative Karin Andersen from SV raised in his last post. I think that now when you evaluate all the sides of the corona, the settlement will also come for the things that were made wrong in terms of that kind of restriction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e991	Many women in shops, kindergartens, child protection, hospitals and hospitals, schools and the transport sector have ensured that society has functioned — despite restrictions for over one year. At the same time, they are the hardest hit when a crisis strikes. Part-time, unorganised jobs, violence and insecurity affect women most. We know that. The pandemic doesn't change this, it reinforces it, and we know that. The equality statement was good at the problem description, but it was not so much new, unfortunately. The same thing was, mostly, problematic also last year. Because we're all here concerned about the consequences of the crisis, also about equality, and it's good to evaluate and evaluate data and situations afterwards. But in my opinion, it would have been much better to demand, as Minister for Gender Equality, that the various departments should wear the glasses when the action plans and packages were made, and then we could have a better explanation this year. But it is clear that this government has not succeeded in taking the big grips on equality. The many action and escalation plans and now strategies I believe are clear signs of disease. They should mention the measures and structures that the government's own policies fail to achieve. For example, paying homage to the unorganised world of work is not good for equality. To spend 50 billion. kr of cash support in the last few years is not good for equality. Having a small commitment full-time strategy is not good for equality. Commercialisation and increased kindergarten prices are also not good for equality. The minister often refers to the right not to be discriminated against and to his struggle to marry whomever he wants, a fight that for him ended well. The Labour Party has listened to women and men who are subjected to just the social negative control in their own communities, in congregations that matter to them and to which they feel attached. The Labour Party knows that this work takes time, and that is why we want to invite you to engage in a continuous dialogue in the allocation of religious and life-view grants. The right-wing government has voted against this and must make stronger demands for gender equality and anti-discrimination work in religious and life-seeking societies. Because we have learned that with clear demands for more transparency and control, there are changes. The government hasn't agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1002	Equality is about so many, so many different groups in our society who experience discrimination or who need to have their rights strengthened. Some of these groups can't stand up to themselves for different reasons, they can't shout out loud, because maybe they don't have a voice at all. For these groups, it is particularly important that we, as elected representatives, are target carriers for their cause, for their rights. I want to be the target bearer of such a group today. Yes, I will be the target of the unborn life, for the thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen-week-old child in mother's stomach, who the National Assembly of the Workers' Party this weekend decided to take away all legal protection when they decided to remove the abortions and extend the limit of self-determined abortion to week 18. They did so without their party leader even mentioning this important question in their national meeting speech, and without him later in the evening being able to explain what they had decided, actually meant. It's completely hair-removing, and it's just so infinite, infinitely sad. It is radical policy when the Workers' Party will deprive unborn life of the gradual increase in legal protection it has today, between week 12 and week 18. And it's just the wrong way to go, considering all the knowledge we have today about the baby in Mother's life. We know from an early stage that the fetus is an advanced creature, and we save children all the way down to week 23. So that large parts of the left side now go in to expand the abortion limit, when technology gives us the opportunity to save premature children ever before, is just completely incomprehensible. A simple online search can show us the most amazing pictures and movies of a child in his stomach in week 18, and these pictures speak for themselves. An abortion will never be just about the woman's body. It's always about two lives. The Christian People's Party will always stand up for the weakest group in our society, the unborn, who has an independent human dignity. But the question is, who else is willing to take the fight for this group, who cannot fight their own battle? It is a huge responsibility on the Labour Party and on the other parties on the Left which will deprive unborn life of all legal protection. In this way, there is also a great responsibility on the Central Party. They should clarify whether they can cooperate with lots that add to an abortion liberalisation completely unparalleled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1013	We are in the time of the home office, and rarely has employment in Norway had a greater share of universally designed jobs. We should see that again in the statistics on disabled people who are currently out of work. A wheelchair does not prevent you from using keyboard and mouse and from participating in digital meetings. It should not prevent you from working. The fight for inclusion in the labour market has been going on for a long time. 100 years ago, women could be quit their jobs if they got married. It was not until 1939 that the Supreme Court stated that being married was not a cause for pronouncing women. Most people today have accepted the idea of gender equality. But for other groups, there's still one piece left. According to the SSB, there are over 100,000 disabled people in Norway who want to work but are still out of the labour market. The wheelchair didn't stop Stifanos. "They have to see me use my brain. Raise your eyes.’ [[...]] It was his call when he got a job at Scandic through a project in collaboration with the Norwegian Handicap Federation. He met a leader who looked at him as a resource, and cleared up his own attitudes. Stifanos is not alone. He is one of many who are daily exposed to prejudices and attitudes that result in exclusion. According to a study by Incita in Denmark, 91 pst. by employers reject applicants who are blind. For deaf people and wheelchair users, the figure is 81 pst. and 62 pst. So the vast majority will not even consider employing disabled people. It's a well-known recruitment issue that we prefer someone who looks like ourselves. We also have too many similarities between disability and disability. There are two different things that don't necessarily have anything to do with each other. The ICT company Unicus considers autists and highlights it as a competitive advantage. Unicus sees the benefits where others see obstacles. In Sandefjord, a group of deaf people, without public assistance or subsidies, established four activities, including: the media enterprise Supervisual. They have now been operating for seven years in the open market with employees who eight out of ten employers would not even assess. Unfortunately, the biggest obstacle to getting more people with disabilities to work is often those who do not have a disability. We need more knowledge about this for a diverse working life. We need to be better at including people with disabilities in the discussion about how they can be included in the working life. They can also challenge us in our attitudes. There are few wheelchair users who feel linked to the wheelchair. It's a tool for them to participate. It's time to challenge our attitudes, because the equality struggle is not over, and we all need to work in the future. And maybe the home office has opened up new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1039	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. The difference between women and men is reduced year by year. But the tax lists are a sad reminder of where the shoe is still pressing. Women in Norway still own their part of the country. There's a lot of reasons for this. The labour market in Norway is gender-divided. All 85 pst. by Norwegian workers working in a profession dominated by either women or men. The gender-based labour market has implications for differences in, among others: wages and salaries. We also know that women have a more limited opportunity to run entrepreneurial activities based on typical women's activities, such as: in the health and care sector. From the left, it has advised that it is not possible to provide care services from private individuals. Concepts such as ‘welfare profitors’ have made it difficult for women to establish new and different care offerings. These are attitudes we have to do something about. Why is it possible that, as a taxpayer, asphalt is financed by municipal roads via the local contractor, but it is not possible to pay Kari for good care solutions? As long as it doesn't cost anything for the individual user, there's no logic that we shouldn't be able to buy services from Kari. It also provides a variety of services and freedom of choice for care professionals. The government has set up an action plan to get more women to start their own business, which also affects the opportunities for social entrepreneurship. Part-time work is also a challenge and women are most affected. Luckily, progress is being made, and more women today have mentioned that 90 000 more women are working full-time now compared to 2013. This government has given part-time employees the right to full-time jobs when new jobs are published, and from 1 January last year, all public employers and the largest private sector must monitor the use of involuntary part-time work with a view to achieving a full-time culture. There's a lot of good happening on the equality front of this government. We're going to do even more so that we can get women to own our legitimate part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1056	In this debate, I think there is a very good example of what characterises this government's equality policy: extremely much talk about problem areas with anecdotes and otherwise no action. Yes, sometimes we're actually being led behind the light, because you say you should act, but you don't choose to do it. In the line change, the council released the cats from the sack. A year and a half ago, we debated the ban on homotherapy in this Chamber. Then the representatives of the government parties said that they agreed with the opposition that this had to be banned. They were just going to investigate it first, and then there would be proposals for a ban in not long time. Since that time, a year and a half have passed, we have not had a case for Stortingen, but today the Council of State said: No, it is not the case that the government has decided whether or not to ban them. We were led behind the light. The government is obviously more concerned with keeping together as a government than actually making progress for equality. The issue of abortion is one example. Lack of willingness to ban homotherapy, as an important human rights issue, is another. And the fact that you stand here talking about the importance of employment among women, but at the same time holding on to the old age creation cash support, which prevents integration and prevents participation and gender equality, and as the Employment Committee, as it has pointed out in its heart and forty-fourth – excuse me, President – the sample and experts – is a barrier to employment and equality – yes, that characterises this government. People, whether they are women, men, LHBTI people, people who experience racism on their bodies or people with disabilities – who are not experiencing gender equality in today’s society either – deserve a government that wants to do something, and who put forward policies and actions and take action. This government does not, and then the world does not go forward – no, then equality is put in reverse. Finally, I would like to make a explanation of vote on the loose proposals that have been put forward in the Chamber today. The Labour Party will vote in favour of the proposals No. Two, four, five, six, eight. We are going to vote against proposals No. 3 and 7, because these proposals directly interfere with the formation of wages and salaries of the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1069	I also took the floor to say that the Central Party will support the proposals No. One, two, four, five, and six of those solutions. Otherwise there have been many good posts today, posts that have taken up different areas. This field is very wide, so it's good that we politicians raise different aspects of it. What was not surprising was that the Christian People's Party wanted to talk about the abortion law today. What was surprising was that we in the Central Party are being challenged if the Workers' Party's decision this weekend will do something about whether we want to cooperate with the Workers' Party. The representative of the Christian People's Party knows very well that we in the Center Party want a new course for the country. We're concerned with social, economic and geographical cohesion, and we're engaged in a very active gender equality work. We only get that by getting a new government. For the matter of changing the abortion law, it has been very frustrating for the Central Party that the Christian People's Party made sure that a law we have suspended and worked on since it was adopted for over 40 years, and the fragile balance that has been in that decision was challenged and put into play at the time of their accession to the government. The fact that the Christian People's Party is now going so hard on the Workers' Party, I think you might not be able to, because you are, in my opinion, responsible for us being in the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1078	There are actually quite a number of posts from the right-hand side of the room today that show the difference on the right-hand and the left-hand sides when it comes to equality policy. In particular, it is about economic equality, about power, autonomy and freedom in economics as well. Because there are two things we know, welfare professionals are mostly men, while health and care workers are mostly women. And if that's a third thing we know, it's that about 80-90 pst. the cost of a health care service, either in the field of child protection or in the care of the elderly, to mention two examples, is related to staff costs. So the question is, when you introduce the market, competition, bids, profit in our welfare services: what are the commercial players that compete for the public and the ideal offers? Yeah, it's just on the 80-90 pst. of their costs: it's wages, it's working conditions, it's retirement. We see it very clearly, for example. in Oslo, where the Red-Green City Council takes back the services to the community, that the employees are left with better conditions. That is why, in fact, the fight against well-being, the withdrawal of services to the community, is one of the very best issues of equality, because it provides better employment in women’s dominated professions. Then it's nice that a right-hand representative here mentions the list of Norway's 100 richest, who – quite rightly – are mostly men. It shows that distribution policy is also a question of equality, because when these 100 wealthiest get more and more money pushed into their bank accounts through tax cuts, it is also anti-equality. Distribution, economics, well-being is also about gender equality policies. It's not just that everyone should have equal opportunities to make free choices, but that everyone should also be able to make those choices. For example: full-time/part-time, as many have spoken about, is still about 30 pst. of women working part-time, while just over 10 pst. by men it does. Many women say that they cannot stand in a full-time position because the staff is so poor, because the job is so tough – and perhaps they also have a greater responsibility for care at home. All of this is related, so if we're going to get a gender equality policy for the many, we also have to give people the opportunity to make free choices. We have to have a gender balance policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1089	Tomorrow, April 21, it is 49 years since the Storting abolished the penal code § 213 that time, which prohibited sexual intercourse between men. The decision of the big business did not come about by itself, but after several years of focused, strategic and political work led by the skeleton and their organization, with Kim Friele at the head. Since 2019, the National Museum, the National Library and the Skeivt Cultural Year have been working to mark the decriminalisation under the heading Skeivt Cultural Year 2022. Several institutions have connected. Oslo Pride is also part of this work and is now planning how the Skevt cultural year can become an important part of Norway's largest and most important Pride event in 2022. As both Minister of Culture and Gender Equality, I am pleased that Oslo Pride is starting to mark the 2022 Year of Culture, i.e. a 50th anniversary, next year. And the last thing I did right before I got here was actually to meet representatives just for Oslo Pride and talk about this. It is an incredibly important matter both for the government, for the Left and also for me personally that we support during the skeleton fight for equality, also today and next year and in the years to come. As I said, the government and I in these days are working on a blast with a new four-year plan of action for the rights and living conditions of the disks, the LHBTIQ action plan, which is to be launched before the summer. That's what we're doing. And in this context, which I have been dealing with, I take personally, as a politician, as an equality minister, as a left-wing representative, as a member of the government, at the strongest distance from so-called homotherapy, which exposes people to psychological pressure and negative social control. It's a utility, and it's an unpractice. But now this is about figuring out. The representative Trettebergstien is trying to draw the government's will into doubt. There's no basis for that. We are investigating the consequences of this, because on the one hand you have the support of any democracy – freedom of expression. Then you have the freedom of religion, and you have the right not to be subjected to this kind of negative social control and homotherapy. It has to be looked up to the Constitution. It has to be seen against human rights. We have a lot of pressure on this. And of course, once the legal aspects of this are resolved, the government will also see what room we have for action to possibly make a ban. The fact that we're investigating is not about the government not wanting to go for a ban. Both Trine Skei Grande have been ready for this before, and I've been ready for that. The government's will for this cannot be questioned. Examining the legal consequences does not weaken our willingness to take the necessary political action when the investigation is ready.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1108	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1113	We all remember very well the debate before Christmas in 2019, when the representatives of the Right and the Left in this room again and again assured that the government would present a case to the Stortingen on the ban on homotherapy. You just had to figure it out a little bit first. Earlier today, the Minister for Gender Affairs said that one should investigate, and then one should decide whether to introduce it or not. There is something quite different than what was said before Christmas in 2019. Now later the Minister for Gender Equality as if this is a difficult investigation. It's not. This is not new crime. There are extremely many countries in Europe that have already introduced such a ban. The EU recommends that we do so. It has nothing to do with troubling neither freedom of speech nor freedom of religion. These boundaries are drawn by others. It's just doing it. But the government is pulling the water because – and you can just say it outright – the Christian People's Party does not agree. And once again, we see that the Right and Left choose to scrape the equality in order to maintain their own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1121	It was Raja's last post that made me draw. It is very difficult to understand what the Minister for Freedom of Speech believes the relevance of the freedom of speech argument is here, because homotherapy is not a discussion. It's a commitment to freeing people from their gay lay. It's a quack salvage. And that's what we promise. It is not freedom of speech to cure cancer patients with stones lying on the chest, or magical words read from an old book. And at least it's not any kind of disease prevention to start getting rid of people's natural legging. So I think the Council of State almost has to explain what this has to do with freedom of expression, because we're not talking about the opinion. We're talking about people who think homophilis can be treated. The council was a little surprisingly clear really, I think, so I think it's very important that he comes up and clears up. As Drettebergstuen said, the argument in the past has been that you have to figure out and then see if we are going to impose a ban. Is it so to understand now that Abid Q. Raja, on behalf of the government, says that they want to introduce a ban, you just have to make it clear that it is possible in relation to international law? That's a completely different point of view. We can have this adopted at any time in the two months that are left of the ageing period. As Trettebergstuen said, other countries have. I believe that they also conducted an investigation into international legislation or what it is now the Council of States should investigate, but at least we deserve an answer as to whether it is such that the government has now concluded that they will introduce a ban – it just has to be checked out against all sorts of international rules. The Council of States must be able to answer yes or no to that. If not, the post he held in place, in my view an attempt to seduce the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1130	Now I'm a lawyer and head of the Ministry of Culture, but it's not like I'm sitting there doing all these investigations myself. We have a lot of good lawyers, fortunately, in the government apparatus, i.e. in the departments, who do this. When you say that you have a desire to ban something, and also a willingness to ban something, you still have to identify the different legal complications of this. It should not really surprise a former Council of State that before introducing different prohibitions, it is necessary to identify the legal consequences of this. It is clear that this also affects one aspect of freedom of expression and that it must be seen in the context of those provisions. It must also be seen in the context of the provisions laid down in the international conventions of which Norway is bound as regards religious freedom. Those borderline drawings must be viewed by the best lawyers the government has available in the departments. It is clear that this work needs to be legalised: when a ban is adopted and the extent to which a ban extends, it is important that these restrictions have increased in advance, because the law must also stand up to the provisions of the Constitution and to the conventions of which Norway is bound and which have been given priority in the law. This should not really be very complicated for the representative Giske, who has a lot of experience as a government council in different departments, that governments are investigating before introducing different laws that may be in favour of prohibiting. In terms of homotherapy, we saw this documented through VG's report a few years ago. It's not all things I have an overview of what's happened in practice, but it's quite cruel that young people, and also children for that matter, and adults are exposed to that kind of practice, the type of pressure, the type of 'therapy' to get away from their sexual orientation, their sexual orientation, and that LHBTIQ people are to be converted to something else. That kind of thing we're taking the complete distance from, and I've said that a number of times. So the one thing is, where are we going to draw the limit of the law? It has to be properly investigated, because when a ban is imposed, it has to be in line with both the Constitution and our international obligations. This can't be very complicated. Once this has been resolved, the government will of course see where the action space goes, and in line with that conclusion and return in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1147	Jorunn Gleditsch Lossius has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1152	I would like to thank the Central Party for a very important clarification, that they say so clearly that the liberalisation of the abortion law, to which the Labour Party is now putting up, is something they are not upset about, and that this is a course they want to welcome. It was very elucidating. So to self-explanation in terms of so-called conversion therapy or homotherapy: of course, the Christian People's Party is strongly opposed to any out-of-office or forced attempt to change human orientation. People must be who they are. There should be no doubt about it, and we take this issue seriously. In Norway, violence and abuse are prohibited; treatment and therapy are prohibited which are harmful to health, and here we have laws, as the representative Giske said. But some people want to ban mental health and prayer, as the representative Trettebergstuen himself said in the debate in 2019, and it is serious. The Christian People's Party will always defend that people have to seek out conversation and plead for absolutely everything they strive with, including sexual questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1159	It is true that I have been in government for a few years. One thing I've learned there is that if you want to solve a matter, really want to get facts on the table and get a case through, it doesn't have to take a year and a half. It's been a year and a half since we were in this room and discussed. The left was with us, the Right and the Advance Party, saying that we want a ban. Over the course of a year and a half, it should be possible to send an e-mail — or fax, if that is what the Raja Department uses — to countries that have imposed a ban and heard what they have assessed, to get the excellent lawyers in the department, including the Council of State, to go through the legal issues around it and to get a proposal promoted. What has changed since then is that the Christian People's Party has joined the government, and the Advance Party has gone out. My question to the Council of State is again, because he only says if and if and if and what: is it that the government of Solberg, with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, has decided that you want to introduce a ban on homotherapy, so if you just finish these investigations and get it clear that it is in order with regard to international legislation? Or even more precisely, set the limit where it goes up against international law -- because it's right as Raja says, that it depends on what you ban, and what you don't prohibit. It is not safe to forbid that it is permissible to say that homophilis can be cured, but one should definitely forbid people with a religious book in their hands to sit down and try to reorient people sexually. We know more than enough that that kind of activity leads to mental harm, it leads to self-harm, and in the worst case, it leads to suicide, especially for people who are really trapped between their own god and their own lay. The Council of State must simply speed up these lawyers. It's not supposed to take a year and a half. Over the past two and a half years, probably more people have been harmed. But once again, we need to get the answer to the most important question – and that is a yes/no question, so listen carefully to whether there is a yes or no: has the government decided to introduce a ban on homotherapy as soon as it is clear how this borders on international legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1170	The representative, Mr Sem-Jacobsen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1175	I simply have to comment on the fact that it turns out that the Christian People's Party here in the Chamber is as bad to listen as they are in politics. Because what I said instead was simply a criticism of the Christian People's Party, which has put the entire abortion law at stake in the political game they were in when they were going into government. It frustrates the Center Party because we have wanted to fend for the balanced and good abortion law. It's now another situation, and those we believe are responsible for it, are our Prime Minister and the Christian People's Party. We're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1180	I thought I would take the opportunity to comment on something that actually makes me very sad. Part of this debate actually shows what kind of polemics and rhetoric we can go into in the future, when the abortion law is dragged into politics and is part of an election campaign and is going to be part of a political game. Norway had one of the best assumptions for a good follow-up of women who were going to have an abortion. We had an abortion law that was regulated in Parliament, not by the Supreme Court, as it is in some places. There was a regulation of abortion that allowed all the batches to agree on when the abortions were to be carried out. What makes me a little sad is that this is recorded in a game by opening the Workers' Party so that you can have abortions until week 18. Why they want to do that, I don't understand. They say the abortion students are a problem, but most abortions are actually taken during the first few weeks of pregnancy. In Norway, we have learned to do this quickly because we have free health care for all women. Health sisters are readily available and referral to abortion is readily available in Norway. Because the system is made the way it is, you get caught early, and abortions can be done at an early stage. It is, as I see it, not a need for the decoration, the liberalisation that the Labour Party says there is so much need, because the whole process of liberalisation lies in the fact that we have these services so easily available and can come to the doctor and get that hour and get it done. So in order to attract and seem much more feminist, you have to be able to open up for week 18, just to try to prove that you're on a team with women. But it did the abortion law from before. It was on the team with women because it gave us an abortion law that the whole Stortinget actually agreed on. Now there is uncertainty — where several parties may actually start to live against abortion in Norway. I find it sad to make an abortion law that not everyone can still agree on. That's what I wanted to say. I feel sad that we have come here in Norway. Maybe we're going to end up like -- let's say -- other countries that don't have regulated abortion in the legal system the same way we do. They haven't set a limit. The limit is before the fetus is assumed to be viable, and that is a very wrong limit. Then I would just like to say about the claim that it was the fault of the Christian People's Party that the abortion law came into play: it was not the fault of the Christian People's Party. It was the technology, it was the opportunity that was given us to end pregnancy in a different way than it had been done before, and intervention that required waiting over 12 weeks to carry them out. It was not regulated in the law. The Christian People's Party asked us to do that, and I think that was a right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1195	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1200	I just want to clarify the Right's position and view on the matter of conversion therapy. Of course, we want it to be presented to the Stortinget, but I have to say that I understand that it has to be investigated. It is about human rights issues, it is about discrimination issues and where the law is to be enforced. I'm impatient with the others, but I trust the government will do this. Then you might not have to forget that the most urgent thing in the department now has been to make good arrangements for cultural life and use the investigative capacity – the capacity you have there – for this. I get to say it like this: the session is not over, and there should be no doubt about the Right View in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1209	Democracy, as we know it in Norway today, has emerged from great thinkers, far back in time, like John Locke and John Stuart Mill, who promoted the principle of freedom of speech. In Norway, the prohibition of the classic right to express itself, but also to make strong, offensive statements, is measured against freedom of expression. That's the legal boundary drawing to be done. Take a completely basic thing like threats. A threat is an opinion. If you're going to ban this threat, you're going to have to pull up that borderline. Where do the limits of freedom of expression go? Racist statements, such as: «your package» – shall it be prohibited? Where does the limit go? Another example is alcohol advertising on television or elsewhere. The right to advertise it falls within the scope of a protection of expression, but borders are being drawn; it has to be investigated – just as with pornography, just as with homohat, and also with homotherapy. This has to be investigated, and it has to be done properly when we are in favour of different prohibitions. It's not about what you want to do, or not, it's not about what you have political will to do, or not – it's about looking at the legal boundaries that are enshrined both in the Constitution and in the international conventions Norway is bound by. It has not been as easy to make legislation that also prohibits racist statements. There have been a number of cases in the judiciary about this — where the boundaries will go for it. Although we believe that racist statements are not good, it is difficult to limit what is forbidden and not, what can be prohibited. In this way, conversion therapy, homotherapy, similar borderlines also have. It's not that we don't think it's cruel or cruel, or that this is something we take the complete distance from. What I've said is that we're working on bombs with this, on high. We don't sleep at all. And as for the conclusion: there is something about banning racist statements, we want to ban threats, and many of us want to have a ban on pornography. However, it is necessary to draw up the limit for this. Similarly, I would like to prohibit conversion therapy. It is necessary to draw up the limits for this legal action. And that's what some lawyers have to look at, so it's not based on feelings of stomach, it's based on what's in relation to the Constitution, what's in relation to the international conventions. The concession, what we can conclude in the direction of, the investigation will answer, and of course we will, as said several times now, come back to it as soon as it's clear. Because it is not a matter of political will, it is a matter of where the border is drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1227	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1232	John Stuart Mill, who is certainly an example of Councillor Raja, and I would believe for the Left Party, left what he called the Harm Principle. It says that the only legitimate reason to restrict people's freedom against their will is to prevent harm to others. So I think councillor Raja is pretty safe in his ideologist's work on the fact that an intervention against exposing people to conversion therapy is completely legitimate. And again, I noticed that when the Council of State said that a ban was to be imposed, he went from the expression "the government wants" to the term "I want". We have not been given the answer – and the Council of State has unlimited speaking time – to whether the government has decided whether they wish to impose such a ban, of course with the restrictions imposed by international legislation. We have to get a yes or a no on that. I don't think any answers are a no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1239	We might get an answer to that, because the Council of State has re-signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1244	I'm not hiding that John Stuart Mill is one of my leading stars, and his ideology is something I find great tranquillity and great freedom in. It's good to think that my party's ideology jumps out of John Stuart Mill's thinking. I remember that former Prime Minister of the Workers' Party, Giske's party, Jens Stoltenberg, used to quote Voltaire from time to time. He said, "I totally disagree with what you're saying, but I'm willing to die for your right to say it -- about that, it's not exactly, it's been a long time since I had ex.phil. I think it's something that's in the classic freedom of expression, that when you limit opinions, it has to be done properly, and that's why we're doing this investigation. I've gone through many of the different dilemmas in which freedom of expression has stood, and there are even more dilemmas than that, of course. Freedom of expression is the most important pillar of any democracy, not least in Norway. I'd say it's the most important freedom we have. On it rests everything else. You cannot have freedom of religion without freedom of speech. I can do that very much, which has grown up in a Muslim family – about what you can say, believe and mean, and not. The classic freedom of expression is the most important value we have, and when restrictions are imposed, it has to be properly investigated. We're doing great. We're going to get back to that. And I've said it many times: our will cannot be drawn into doubt. Our will and what we think and believe about conversion therapy cannot be questioned. I told you. It has also been prepared by Mr Örmen Johnsen, Chairman of the Committee, on behalf of the Right. The government will conclude on these questions when we get the different borderlines in place. We'll get back to it in an appropriate way, but there's full pressure on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1275	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1284	This is an implementation proposal for Directive 2014/26 of the European Parliament on collective management of copyright and related rights and multi-territorial licensing of rights to musical works for use on the network in the internal market. This Directive is EEA-relevant and the EEA Joint Committee adopted by Decision No. 186/2017 of 22 September 2017 to include the Directive in Annex XVII to the EEA Agreement, Copyright. Through Prop. 97 S for 2017-2018, Stortinget was asked to take decisions to approve the decision of the EEA Joint Committee. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Inner. 90 S for 2018–2019. Norway will therefore be obliged to implement the provisions of the Directive. In Norwegian law, collective management organisations are not specifically regulated, so the implementation of the Directive requires amendment of the law. The Breathwork Act confers on the author the exclusive right to possess the work by producing a copy of it and by making it available to the public, either by distributing and displaying the copy or by making the work publicly available and transmitting it to the public. Similar protections have also been provided to a large extent to related rightholders, including: performers, producers of sound recordings and films and broadcasters. The use of protected material usually requires agreement from different holders of copyright and related rights. Normally, the rightholder may choose to manage his rights himself or to do so through an organisation. In Norway, collective management of rights is exercised by organisations such as TONO, Kopinor, Gramo, Norwaco and BONO. The purpose of the Directive is to establish a legal framework for collective management of copyright and related rights. Such management usually has the authority of the individual rightholder and/or management contract with an organisation representing the rightholder. The law strengthens the position of rightholders in situations where they have entrusted the management of rights to a collective management organisation. The Committee held an open consultation on the proposal on 22 January 2021. The agreement of the Committee shall be promoted by an overall committee, the provisions of which shall be adopted by all the parties. The only disagreement in the examination of this law has been whether Norway could choose a different approach from the inclusion of the Directive, and this is where the Committee is divided. I refer you to the comments that the government parties are in and that have received a majority in the vote. I'll come back to the rest of a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1307	I am pleased that the majority in the committee joins the government's proposal for a new law on collective management of copyright. In Norway, we have a long tradition of rights being managed through collective management organisations. The system works pretty well. The proposal will harmonise the regulation of collective rights management across the EEA. For Norway, this means that collective rights management is more regulated. In the long run, the proposal is in line with the practice in this area. Several of the rules aim to strengthen the position of rightholders, including: as regards this co-determination rule, requirements on the extent to which organisations can apply to administration and the principle that remuneration should be returned as far as possible to the individual rightholder, i.e. individual distribution. Some administrative organisations only have organisations as members. The legislative proposal is adapted to this established administrative structure in Norway by imposing certain obligations on membership organisations. This has been done to achieve the objective of the Directive and to ensure that rightholders are given the same rights as if they had been direct members of the management organisation. The minority’s proposal to restrict the scope of the law would clearly weaken the rights of rightholders. It will be the form and structure of the organisation which determines the rights granted to individual authors or performers. It opens up the possibility of organising away from the rights and obligations contained in the Directive. In the government's view, that would be unfortunate. I would also like to comment on the minority's proposal to clarify that the law does not change today's practice of collective distribution of remuneration. As stated in the proposal, the Directive and the Collective Distribution Act are open, but it requires inter alia: individual distribution is difficult or impossible. An unreserved clarification, as requested by the minority, would be contrary to the Directive obligations of Norway. I also record that the opposition in the setting has a number of comments on different parts of the law. Several of these I think are due to misunderstandings. It has, for example, not intended to amend the basic rules of the copyright law, which were unanimously adopted only three years ago after thorough treatment in the Grand Duchy. Nor is it common lawmaking to repeat regulations that are already in the copyright law in other laws, for that matter. It is important that collective management of copyright and rights clearance is transparent, reassuring and trusting. I believe that the new law provides an appropriate legal framework for collective rights management – a framework that facilitates creative activities and the development of new and innovative services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1326	We've had a lot of rounds on this in the current period, and it's an important job because it ensures basic income for many in cultural life. We have good organisations that take care of this. We've had a good system for many years. We have a minority proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to limit the scope of the law on collective management of copyright, etc. for membership organisations in accordance with the Directive on collective rights management, and to return to Stortinget by clarifying that the law does not change the current practice of collective management of remuneration funds, such as scholarships.’;» The Council of State says that this is contrary to the Directive, but it is quite specific in the proposal that a solution should be found which is 'in accordance with the Directive' in order to facilitate the best possible operation of the present system. So I'm going to deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1340	The representative Trond Giske has taken up the proposal he referred to. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1347	Then we're really going to get to the heart of the fight. It has been to see the possibility that the opposition is talking about in order to do so in line with the directive. I do not think that is possible, and I also believe that the Council of State has explained this. Parts of the opposition are of the opinion that there was an opportunity for Norway to adopt a so-called minimum requirement for the inclusion of this law in order to keep the membership organisations outside. We are not of the same opinion, and refer to the whole purpose of the proposition is to ensure the transparency and involvement of copyright holders and related rights, and that it is the individual tasks performed by the member organisation that determine whether it should be governed by the law. Management of rights on behalf of members and payment of remuneration means carrying out tasks to be governed by law. It is the intention of the Directive and provides participants with rights relating to the performance of these types of tasks, precisely because it entails obligations to guarantee rightholders. I think it's amazing that this isn't considered important enough of the opposition, or that it's hard for the opposition to understand this, which is very clear in the proposition. I do not fully see how the purpose of the law can be implemented unless the law and the obligations outlined by the law apply also to organisations that manage rights on behalf of others. I tried to understand parts of the opposition, which are so safe in their case. It almost seems that the individual parties are more concerned about how to ensure that membership organisations get the most out of the funds, which can be made available freely to scholarships, than what I think is also very important, that the individual rightholder and owner of copyright works are paid for the use of their works.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1373	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1380	The case concerns the approval of the Decision of the EEA Committee of 15 March 2021 amending Protocol 10 to the EEA Agreement on the simplification of checks and formalities in respect of the carriage of goods. The case consists of two propositions. Prop. 90 S was promoted by the government on 19 February 2021, and Prop. 106 S was promoted on 12 March of that year, with the intention of amending draft decisions in the light of decisions of the EEA Committee on 15 March 2021. The need for two propositions is linked to formalities, not new and changed content. Nevertheless, it is most tidy of both the government and the Stortinget to take their decisions after the examination of the EEA Committee and with a proper attitude of the government. The summary in the configuration states that: «The adoption of the Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 15 March 2021 makes it necessary to amend the proposal for a Decision of Prop. 90 S [[2020-2021]] It sounds pretty similar, but there's a significant difference. Both propositions aim at ensuring a smooth and good freight transport in the EU and between the EU and EEA countries. New customs security requirements have been introduced requiring the adjustment of Protocol 10. The need for smooth freight was strongly illustrated when the United Kingdom left the EU without an agreement being in place. The result was several days of delays and chaos. This clearly illustrates the need for contractual rules that allow goods to pass without undue delay. The Committee recommends that the decision of the EEA Committee of 15 March 2021 amending Protocol 10 to the EEA Agreement on the simplification of checks and formalities in respect of the carriage of goods be approved. The majority of the Committee consists of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1404	The centre party considers that in this proposition there are uncertainties about the consequences of disregarding national definitions and risk management, risk criteria and priority control areas for customs security. This also has higher costs, i.e. economic consequences. We believe that such assessments must be made more clearly before the Storting can agree to the definition by each party of its risk assessment framework, risk criteria and priority control areas. We point out that Iceland has so far not seen the need to establish a common EU regime in this area, and that Switzerland has a separate customs security regime in a separate agreement between Switzerland and the EU. The Central Party considers that the Storting should postpone this decision because of these uncertainties and until after the legal entity has dealt with the matter of Norway’s link to Acer and the Stortinge has dealt with the EU’s fourth railway package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1413	In 2009, Norway and the EU concluded a customs security agreement to ensure a good flow of goods between Norway and the EU. The Agreement was incorporated into the EEA Agreement Protocol 10 and ensures that Norway is not considered a third country under the EU customs security regime. The agreement incorporates Norway into the EU customs security area and therefore exempts goods dispatched between Norway and the EU from prior notification. This is a simplification for business, which would otherwise have increased costs. In order to fulfil the obligations of the Agreement, Norway has established similar rules for prior notification and risk assessment as the EU for goods dispatched to and from third countries. In 2016, the EU introduced new customs security rules to strengthen controls related to the import and export of goods that could pose a threat to health, the environment and safety. This implies a need to amend the Norwegian customs security rules accordingly. The changes involve some tightening of the reporting requirements for economic operators in the case of goods to and from third countries. Nevertheless, participation in the Customs Security Agreement will continue to entail overall simplifications for Norwegian business. In addition, more detailed information will be available to the customs office at an earlier date than today, so that the quality of customs controls and threat assessments will increase. Experience has shown that the changes are a prerequisite for continued Norwegian participation in the customs security area. On behalf of the Government, I ask that Stortinget agree to approve the decision of the EEA Committee of 15 March 2021 on amendments to Protocol 10 to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1426	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1443	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1450	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its cooperation. This proposal concerns the right to drive a light motorcycle if you have a driving licence for a car. In addition, a proposal has been made by the Workers' Party in the case. The majority of the Committee points out that a long-term commitment to road safety has reduced the number of fatalities in traffic. This saves human suffering, it's in line with the zero vision, and it's a good social economy. There has been a halving of the average mortality rates on motorcycles following the introduction of training and testing, despite a large increase in the number of registered motorcycles in the last 15 years. The number of deaths in motorcycle accidents remains relatively high and exceeds 20 pst. the number of deaths on Norwegian roads, despite an overall low driving distance. Unfortunately, these injury figures have not been well developed, and that is why the majority emphasises this requirement to continue to focus on ensuring that drivers of heavy and light MC and mopeds have the specific competence that is vital for the use of such vehicles. Being able to drive safely on a motorcycle requires significantly different skills and competences than those required to drive a passenger car. Driving competence is a central element of road safety work and it is essential for the accident picture. The recommendation of the Committee is that the proposal should not be adopted. Then I'll say a few words on behalf of the Center Party. I would like to point out that the need for a driving test today is reinforced by that 19 pst. by the candidates in 2020, strike the practical driving test for category A1. These are persons who have completed what traffic schools consider to be sufficient training for each candidate, but who still do not pass a practical driving test. There is no reason why Class B training should automatically result in the same driver being fit to hold category A1 entitlement. Now maybe some people think I'm negative about motorcycles. I'm not, I've driven Kawasaki myself before – 1000 cubics!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1465	A long-term commitment to road safety has reduced the number of fatalities in traffic. By 2020, we were under 100 killed for the first time. For the Workers' Party, the zero vision is fixed. We have no one to lose. Nevertheless, the working party shares many of the evaluations of the proposers, thinking in particular about the efforts that are being put down in many places to reduce car traffic. If this work is to be successful, a wide range of instruments must be used. In that perspective, it would have been interesting to consider whether increased use of mopeds, scooters and motorcycles, as well as increased use of public transport, bicycles and bicycles, can help reduce car traffic. Nevertheless, one shall be aware that the risk of death in driving a light motorcycle in 2020 was 20 times higher than in driving a car. The Council of State is clear in its opinions that the proposed proposal for a representative is likely to cause more deaths and serious damage to our roads. So clear statements from the responsible state council cannot ignore the Workers' Party. Safety Traffic also states that liberalisation of the regulation on driving rights for light motorcycle cannot therefore be recommended from a road safety point of view. The working party considers that no changes must be made which result in more deaths and damage to traffic. We therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the government to find out if it should be easier to obtain a driving licence for a light motorcycle when you have a driving licence for a car. Such an investigation must answer road safety, greenhouse gas emissions and other significant issues. Now the committee members from the Right and the Left write that such an assessment was made two years ago. The working party believes it was an investigation that related to simplified access to category A1 driving licences for category B licence holders, and we believe that we now need to have a broader investigation than what was done in the internal investigation in 2018. I am therefore addressing the Labour Party's proposal, proposal No. 1 in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1480	The representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1485	This representative proposal from the Progress Party may, for the first time, appear both logical and comprehensible. If a driver card training for a passenger car has passed the test, a driving qualification for a light motorcycle should also be available, but being able to drive safely on a motorcycle requires different skills and competences than driving a passenger car. Norway waived the possibility of automatic driving rights for category A1 with category B for driving licences issued in 1979 or later. The reason for that change was that the State Road Administration saw that it was a very accident-proposed group of road users and considered that one measure to improve road safety was driver training and driving test in line with the other driving licence categories. There has been a halving of the average death rate on motorcycles after the introduction of training and testing, despite the fact that for the past 15 years it has been a major increase in registered motorcycles. In 2018, the Ministry of Transport commissioned the Directorate of Road to make it easier to obtain driving licences for light motorcycles for those who already have driving licences for cars. Three TØI reports were used as a basis for these assessments. State Road Administration writes in the report: ‘The driving training required for the current category A1 entitlement is designed to align the mandatory elements of the curriculum with the competence required by the vehicle, which can be easily established through class B experience, with the exception of one course, road safety course, which was introduced from 1 January 2018.’ Norway has had a very positive accident development in recent years. Measures that have contributed to the positive development are many and have accumulated the desired effects. There is good reason to believe that the division into driving licence classes and appropriate training has been an important part of this development. For Right's part, traffic safety in the high seat. I am pleased that this proposal is not being adopted, and we do not want to go back to 1979, when it was just so that a driving licence for a car was one that qualified to drive a motorcycle. That year, about 50 people were killed on mopeds and motorcycles. Last year, 20 people were killed on a motorcycle. That's 20 too many. It is therefore important that continued road safety work against zero vision: zero killed and severely damaged traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1501	It's interesting to listen to the previous speakers, because here there's no doubt that the repeat button comes on almost immediately. Firstly, it is important to bear in mind that this is not about MC and heavy motorcycle – it would also be skeptical to do without more training. But there are so many fewer accidents with a light MC than with a motorcycle, and the propulsion batch would not apply to a motorcycle. So I think, when I hear the debate, you almost don't get what it says, because it sounds like you don't think you have to increase your skills in actually driving a motorcycle or a light motorcycle. It's the whole purpose of this, that you actually have to have more training. It is in the proposal for a representative to have more training, but you do not have to take a new driving test at the Car Authority. It is largely where some of the difference is in the proposal of the Progress Party and the others. I also record that Safety Traffic managed to turn from being positive to becoming negative to this proposal over the course of a week, and I record that in 2018 they were very clear that it was possible to support such a proposal where there were some requirements for competence and training, both practical and theoretical. There is also some of the things that remain in this proposal for a representative, so I almost don't understand that you want to go against what you were last time. I think that is a very good proposal. It can be positive as well, as someone has said, in relation to using less space, that it's easier to get there, etc., so it can be a very positive measure. I recommend Stortinget to think about one more time and not just go straight into the repeat button, as I feel that both the case rapporteur and several of the other speakers here have done – and just been negative, obviously because it comes as a proposal from the Progress Party. In fact, this is a smart and good proposal that ensures road safety in a good way. So I want to bring up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. We will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Labour Party, not because we believe it is necessary, but it is better than nothing when it seems that the majority does not support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1514	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1519	I have also had a light motorcycle at a young age, at the age of 16, and a really heavy motorcycle – a 1200 testosterone bomb V-max – as a well-ripe man. It was among Norway's smallest used motorcycles, so it was sold for the longest time. I have also cycled a lot, and I drive a car – I have driven a lot of cars in my old profession. I know well the differences between all these modes of transport, both in terms of hazards and in terms of driving skills and requirements for knowledge of what to control. I have to say that I understand the statistics very well – that among the roughly quarter of a million Northmen who have some type of moped or motorcycle today, the danger of accidents is very great, for all categories of motorcycle. I had sailed several near misses, sail if I drove incredibly carefully and had a long experience as a driver when I had a heavy motorcycle – and little adolescence and speed, I have to say. It is simply that the drivers you meet do not deal well enough with motorcyclists on the roads. It does not help to keep the law on their side, the traffic rules, if you are hit by a car. You can be dead or hurt for life, and then it's of less importance whether you were right or not. Statistics show that the risk of death per kilometre is about twice as high for light motorcycle as it is too heavy, says the TØI report referred to in the setting. Much is, of course, due to the fact that today drivers of heavy motorcycles are much older than drivers of light motorcycles. It's probably often associated with some sort of 50-year crisis getting heavy motorcycle today, I think. But maybe it is also that light motorcycle is most often purchased first, and then there are many new challenges in driving skills. It's a long step that's taken from a bike to a light motorcycle – it's a giant chalk. Everything happens faster, the assessments have to be done faster, and there is also much more to be done with collision or derailment. It is also a big step from dropping the steering wheel in a car to grab hold of the steering wheel on a light motorcycle. You underestimate the dangers, and you overestimate the ability of drivers to discover you and take into account you. In addition, it overestimates its own ability to handle the motorcycle, whether for swings, smooth driving, gravel in the roadway – or sheep around the next turn, for that matter. You need a separate course for this – and the representative Hoksrud also says you should have – but also a separate test, in the opinion of SV. It is a part of your own exclamation mark that you have to carry for a motorcycle compared to a car. It is highly likely that the proposal will cause more fatalities and serious damage to traffic. That is why SV will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1532	It looks like there's evidence of how many driving licences you have. I've been a bus driver, just to say it. I have not driven so much motorcycle, but I have driven a lot of scooter, among other things. What's my point is that there's a constant development of vehicles and adaptations to both the laws and age groups that it suits. When, in 1979, the driver’s right to drive a light motorcycle was taken away, it clearly had its reason: more training, more exercise, more competence simply to drive a motorcycle, and the comparison between driving licences for a car and motorcycles was not satisfactory with regard to the frequency of accidents. A little later, the popular scooters came, and you could say they were a little closely related to light motorcycle, but with the big difference that they had limited speed. And we know that in the case of traffic accidents, it is very often the speed that is dangerous. That's the speed that kills, and that's where you have to have constraints. You've done that with scooters. This is partly done with electric bicycles. You also do that with electric bicycles. I think that when it comes to the technology of electric motors, you might try to limit speed more to those areas where it's most dangerous. We'll look at the evolution here. There should be new legislation and adjustments for the different bicycles and motorcycles. I think that's a reasonable line we in Stortingen put on today. You don't have enough practice, enough practice, so you can't just allow this. I see that the Progress Party has a proposal somewhat similar to Germany, that you should have extra hours and extra training, but it is also possible to require full training. It is fully permissible to take driving licences for light motorcycles for those who wish to use that vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1543	Like Jon Gunnes, I was also impressed by the experience and breadth of the representative Arne Nävra. I can't say that I have the same thing. Therefore I have taken a thorough round with the best professionals before we have given our answers to this matter. I am glad that the majority of the things in this setting do not now make it possible to simplify the possibility of running a light motorcycle for those who have a driving licence. As I have reported to the Storting in the matter, it is likely that the change proposed here would result in more deaths and serious damage to traffic, and it is contrary to the zero vision and they override the objectives of traffic security policy. Therefore, it is positive that the plurality is proposing to continue today's rules in this area. The proposalers refer to and will introduce a rule which we abolished in 1979. As someone has already done well here, in 1979 we had numbers that were quite different and on a whole different scale from what we have done hard damage and killed in traffic in 2021. So we've done a lot of work. Norway is completely in front of the world in this area, but it is not. We have also seen positive developments in motorcycle accidents for a long time. These developments have stagnated in the last few years, while the sales are now increasing. The deaths in motorcycle accidents now exceed 20 pst. of the total number of killings on the Norwegian road, a total of a modest runlength. Injury has also not a good development. There I still think we need to focus on ensuring that drivers of heavy and light mc and moped have the special competence that is vital to the use of such driving gear. Several have pointed to Germany, which has introduced a system of extension from category B to light untested motorcycle. But there are stricter age and experience requirements than we have so far assessed in Norway, with minimum age requirements of 25 years and five years of experience in Class B. There are also demands for a total of 18 hours of training, eight hours of theory and ten hours of practical training. It is also true that the experience from Germany is so new that it is not yet possible to say anything about the impact of the change in traffic safety in Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1557	The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1562	The European Driving Licence Code opens up the possibility for those who hold a category B driving licence to also obtain an A1 light motorcycle licence. This is possible even without any requirement for theoretical and practical training. Based on this possibility, the Progress Party has proposed that those who have a driving licence for a car should also be able to drive a light motorcycle. This is a fantastic cause of joy, and I actually thought it would be possible to adopt this proposal, especially since today's proposal is more stringent than what other European countries practice, by requiring that you have both a theoretical and practical training from an authorised driving school and have had a driving licence for a car for at least two years in order to obtain a driving licence for a light motorcycle. But today's cause of joy does not seem to be a cause of joy, since it is suggested here from previous speakers that there is probably a majority on the Stortinget to vote down the proposals of the Progress Party. It's both strange and very disappointing. We would have thought that a proposal that is actually perfectly adapted to both climate, land and environmental rhetoric and not least to the policy of the parties from the far left to the right to limit land use, reduce emissions and reduce the number of vehicles and choose alternative means of transport that light motorcycle would be well received. Actually, I would like to say that it is actually a bit well received. Especially the Workers' Party impresses in this matter. At least they have understood the point, because even though they in traditional style want to employ bureaucrats by continuing to investigate and assess before they dare to decide or implement something, at least in the rhetoric and in their proposal they agree with the intention. They just want to spend a little longer time deciding. But where's the Center Party? I look across the hall here and really wonder where the center party is in this case, because light motorcycle is not just a city phenomenon, it's not just a nice alternative to driving cars in the cities to get easier and take less space. It's also, to the most extent, a building case. At least I perceive that the Labour Party and the Advance Party really agree here. We agree on the intention, we agree on the goal. The working party will only go a little – or maybe a long – detour before they arrive at the goal. As my colleague Mr Hoksrud said, the Progress Party will support the proposal of the Labour Party in a subsidiary way. I hope that more people in this room also do that. I feel at least that the majority may understand that it may be wise to open up for more use of light motorcycle, and that there is a little unwarranted fear of road safety here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1577	When I take the floor, it is because I have followed the debate and heard the speeches from this pulpit. It's not often I say that, but I'm almost startled that a Transport Committee can use the arguments they're making from this chair in terms of driving rights and types of driving licences. Several stand here and keep posts about mopeds, light MCs and heavy motorcycle in a large sauce. There are a wide range of drivers. For moped, it's a moped driver's license, not a driver's license. Dragging it into the MC debate with driver's rights and light MC and along with heavy motorcycle are very, very wrong, and there are factual errors, which actually some should go into themselves about. Light MC is also not comparable to heavy MC. There are two wide-ranging vehicles. When you're talking about lifting the 1979 court, that's not what this proposal is about, on the contrary. You talk about competence – yes, exactly! That's exactly why the Progress Party has taken on the basis of what the State Road Service itself provided in its sketch to a possible driving licence for light MC if you have a category B licence and after a probationary period of two years. So it's competence. It is both theoretical and practical and practice, not automatically getting right. It's a difference of substance. When you say you have to know more, you know more. You're talking about accident statistics and it's not just sitting on a light MC. No, that's not it. That is why the Progress Party wants a course. And that's about the same thing as today. As a 16-year-old, you get to drive in traffic for the first time with a light MC licence. We want to extend the possibility for those who are 18 years old and have had a driving licence for two years when the probationary period is over. You can take the same course you have today for the 16-year-olds. Then you have the sense of traffic. You've learned it, and it's easier to handle the MC when you don't have to learn everything again. Some people talk about having a motorcycle or having had it. I've had both, and I still have. I would never, as Hoksrud said in the pulpit, given the possibility of automatic driving rights for heavy bicycles. It's something else. I also hear that we are talking about land policy – there is a lack of land in urban areas. Yes, the Progress Party will also have the opportunity to facilitate MCs in urban areas. It's a wish from more people. Five MCs are provided in one parking space in the city. For those who do not want cars in the city, this is a handshake, they are given an opportunity. It's absolutely right that there's a high accident statistics for MC, but it's heavy MC. Because light MC is something completely different, and there are 16-year-olds we're talking about, not those who have the right to drive, I want to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1594	The reason for the scepticism of the other batches and the government is road safety. When that word is used, everything stops. Then no one dares to challenge or change anything. However, the word road safety is unfortunately a bit abused. Every time there is a change you disagree with, the card is drawn: road safety. It was also used diligently when the Progress Party got a pass to increase from 100 to 110 km/h. The party of progress was criticized by many teams. Then it crept with undocumented claims, and the message was that this is an irresponsible proposal from the Progress Party, and this will lead to more people being killed in traffic. The progress party disagreed, and now we've got the fasitite after several years with 110 km/h on our best, safest and safest highways. The progress party got it right, and the critics were wrong. The safest traffic itself has been silenced, and no one is now protesting at 110, at least not from a road safety perspective. We in the Progress Party are convinced that the 110 history is comparable to the light motorcycle proposal. The government and its opponents come back with views, assumptions and undocumented claims that this could probably lead to more deaths. The exact same rhetoric we heard now. The only difference is that the Minister of Transport has now changed sides. He's on the team of opponents. The Minister writes, among other things: that, if the proposal goes through, ‘there is likely to be more death and serious damage to our roads’. It is alarming that the minister uses such rhetoric, based on vision and assumptions. It's getting very unyielding and stigmatizing. Because here the Minister indirectly says that those who support the proposals of the Progress Party will help to kill more people in traffic. It is surprising to make such undocumented claims and assumptions to ensure that people do not support a proposal from the Progress Party. The matter was actually investigated in 2018. In that case, the professional authorities themselves proposed a limited national driving right for light MC, without a driving test, but with training requirements, both theoretical and practical. It is also important to remember that there is a big difference between light MC and heavy motorcycle. It can't be repeated enough times. The Great Valley was in it in the city, and Arne Nävra himself was also in it in the city. It simply cannot be compared, heavy MC and light motorcycle. It is also important to bear in mind that driving skills, attitudes and understanding of traffic change significantly with age and experience. I remember that the proposal from the Progress Party only opens up so that you can obtain a driving licence for a light motorcycle if you have been driving a car for at least two years and have had theoretical and practical training. I doubt that it is relevant for 20-year-olds who have finally received the registration for the car, that they should then give priority to taking a driving licence for a light motorcycle. It's probably more my age group, about 50 years plus/minus, for which maybe that proposal is relevant. I don't think they'll be the worst in accident statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1607	I feel that this debate is part of a confession of what has been done within the MC and non-MC. When I was 18 years old, I thought I'd start driving a heavy bike, but I left it. I was probably a little overjoyed in speed, and I think it was okay to stand over. But that's a little bit interesting. I have a daughter who has just taken the note, and the moped training that you now have is quite extensive compared to the one that I had when I started moped – that was the second year after you had driving licence training on mopeds. I have to say it's a little special because no one asks questions about whether I can raise myself on this 16-year-old moped that goes in 45 km/h. I don't want to say exactly that it's for the best of life with such a rusty guy on a little moped. I mean definitely that there had been a lot, a lot better to open up for it. I believe Morten Stordalen said very clearly and clearly what this is all about, and I think the debate in many people has been very concerned about suffocating everything that is possible. This is not about inexperienced drivers who have no experience of being in traffic. The assumption is that you have had the note for at least two years. That means you have to be over 20 years before you can ride on light MC. In addition, you have to have about the same qualification requirement: you have to go to driving school and you have to have both theoretical and practical experience and training, but you don't have to take another test. That's a little bit of what's meant here, that you should be able to drive because you have a lot of the other skills. Mass has happened in terms of competence and training in traffic training, and that's very good, along with all the other good things we've done by building new, good infrastructure, we've got new cars, we've got new technology, etc., as well as probably having the very best traffic training in the world. That is why I believe this could be a good measure. It's, as Morten Stordalen said, not going back to 1979 – it's taking 2021 and what reality is like in 2021. That is why I hope the majority, at least those who have signaled that they are a majority here today, think again and support the proposals of the Progress Party when the matter comes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1618	Since it's so short speaking time, I'll have to go again. I could imagine asking the Council of State a question and hope he can come and answer it from the pulpit. There's something about this being sent to a hearing from the department a couple of years ago. It was then that all the hearing bodies were positive to the sketchwork that the State Road Administration itself made. I'm really wondering what's new, what's happened in the department since the government and the government are now negative. Now it's obviously dangerous, while the underlying office in its own establishment and all the professional environments working with motorcycle and safety have been positive to the outlined solution, with a course, theoretical and practical practice. Then it's interesting that you turn around and stand on the pulpit in Stortinget and say it's dangerous, while the same agencies that work with certainty have said that this can be a good setup, and that they support it. I know that Safe Traffic turned 180 degrees. They meant something two years ago, they meant something to the committee in the first letter, and then all of a sudden they turned around. It must safe traffic itself answer for that they turned to those degrees around, but I'm even more excited about why the council turns around. It could have been interesting to know. Let there be no doubt: the progress batch is for road safety also in the case of two-wheelers, to the greatest extent. I expect – I hope, at least – that several representatives in the Committee will also have close dialogue with those working on it in Norway. At least it has the Progress Party. That is why the proposal is also being promoted, precisely because it is so positive to this very thing – as long as it is not a 1979 model, as more people in the committee clearly thought it was. Then I can clarify one more time: it's not a 1979 model at all, it's a 2021 solution, with course, theoretical and practical practice. I would like to hear the Council of State justify why he has turned the reel around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1629	I have had one point of view on this matter. That is the position I presented to the Committee in the letter at the beginning of March. So it's the earring that Morten Stordalen picks up. It was a hearing that was completed in 2019. Then there was considerable scepticism among the hearing authorities of the proposal. Courts with special heavy competence just at MC training, such as: Traffic Schools Association, the Transport Forum, opposed the proposal of simplification in principle, and the ATL, the Norwegian Automobile Association, the Norwegian Motorcycle Union and the Police Directorate were clear that they could not support the fact that there was access to driving rights for light motorcycles without a driving test. As also shown here, safe traffic is against such a change. I thought that it was precisely that Safety Traffic has carried out a thorough assessment and that the countries so clearly, they are honouring. And then I also want to say that if we look at what our neighboring country is doing here, they have the practice that we have. When we look at both Sweden, Denmark and Finland, which we often do in that kind of question, they are completely in line with the number of people in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1638	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1643	Let me clarify one more time – it seemed to me that the Council of State could use one answer that would suit the Council of State. But I specifically mentioned the sketched solution that the State Road Administration itself offered with course. Then the same organizations responded positively to the solution. I am not talking about the first hearing, but the one where the State Road Administration itself outlined the solution with course and how it could be implemented. There the very same organisations as the Council of State now mentioned from the pulpit responded positively to the hearing. It's public.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1648	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1665	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1672	With experience in the previous case, and perhaps lack of experience in driving a motorcycle, I have all the more experience in driving a ferry. We're going to the seaway. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the matter. With the amount of proposals we have in the Committee at the moment, I hope we can maintain the good spirit of cooperation even until the summer. The Committee was asked to examine the proposals No. 1, 3 and 4 of the proposal of several members of the Central Party. We have done so, and I will explain our views on the matter. I expect the other parties, of course, to explain their proposals and their views. In the treatment of Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021 earlier this year, the majority took the following decisions: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget of 2021 with proposals for reduced ferry tariffs already for the current year and a binding plan for halving ferry prices for both national road and county road links. Solutions for lower rates for commuters shall be given priority and the reduction shall be financed by the State.’;» In addition, there is a decision last year which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess lower advance amounts for AutoPASS for ferries and that this is assessed for all tariff groups.’ In our view, it would be sensible to see these proposals in this case, in the context and follow-up of these two request decisions which the Storting has already discussed and adopted. We would then have a more comprehensive assessment where the economic effects were also assessed and the necessary appropriations could be made. We are in favour of contributing to a reduction in ferry prices, but we will not vote in favour of any of the proposals that have been put forward in this matter, precisely because we believe it must be dealt with in the context of the current budgets. As the Storting has asked the government to come back to these questions already in the revised national budget, I think it would have been most tidy if this debate had been taken when the government submitted its proposal. In addition to that, we do not have much more to say about this matter now. We come back to this when the government presents its proposal in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1697	I also have a lot more experience in driving with a ferry than with a light motorcycle. The working party shares the opinion of the proposers that high costs for ferries and speedboats are going wrong. Much of the value creation and what we're going to live on in the future lies on the coast. Under this government, ferry and speedboat tariffs have increased dramatically. This applies to both national and county road connections. It is the inhabitants who have had to take the costs of the climate objectives and requirements adopted by the Storting. There is also the introduction of AutoPASS which has made the ferry journey free of charge for passengers, but increased the cost for those who drive alone and depend on a car. The Labour Party has not long since promoted a proposal by a representative to reduce the amount of advance payments in order to obtain a discount. The decision to ask the government, as the local representative said, to assess the lower advance for AutoPASS for ferries for all tariff groups. The size also decided to pray ‘The government will return to the revised national budget for 2021 with proposals for reduced ferry tariffs already for the current year and a binding plan for halving ferry prices for both national road and county road links. The solution for lower rates for commuters shall be given priority and the reduction shall be financed by the State."; This is the Working Party very pleased with. We believe it is natural to consider new proposals now related to ferry prices and advance payments against orders already made by Stortinget, which we expect will come in the revised national budget. We also believe that the state allocations to county municipalities have not been proportionate to the costs incurred by boat and ferry companies, based on the requirements adopted by the Stortingen regarding such national climate targets. We have pointed this out and prioritised increased transfers in our alternative state budget. We also believe that harmonisation of tariffs across the country is necessary to make them fair for both national and county road links, and that this must be done in dialogue with county municipalities. And it's important for us that the state takes the costs. We will follow up this matter when we see what the government is going through, and I take up proposal No. 2, of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1719	Then the representative Kirsti Leirtrø has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1724	The Progress Party believes that both national and county roads are very important for both peoples and businesses. In many places, the ferry or speedboat is the same as the bus, tram and T-Bahn in central Eastern Europe, because it is dependent on using this offer to get to and from work or other activities. So it's a little bit interesting with the proposal from the Center Party. The progress party initially wants the ferry as part of the infrastructure to be free of charge for those who use this offer, just as we believe that tolls are a utility and an imbecile that we prefer not to have. That is why we also propose that from 2022 there should be free ferry services in Norway. Unfortunately, it doesn't look like we're getting a majority for it now, but we're glad that we've had an impact on the AutoPASS system, and not just on the passenger car, as the Center Party suggests, but on all types of cars, because it also costs the business a lot to pay for driving a ferry. That is why we are pleased that there is a case coming back to Stortinget already revised, because the government has to do so because of the requirement and the request decision that lies there, which is both about reducing the ferry fare and about AutoPASS. But anyway, it's a little bit fun to see the proposals and consequences of the Center Party. I went in and got an overview of More and Romesdal, and there are 24 ferry sections with national and county roads, where 18 of them have traffic of over 100,000 passengers. And the numbers for 6 of the 24 ferry routes: Molde–Vestnes, 1.5 million, Hareid–Sulesund, 1.2 million, Sykkylven–Magerholm, 1.1 million, Volda–Lauvstad and Stranda–Liabygda, 323,000 passengers, or travellers. So there's someone here who's going to pay the full price if the Senter Party's proposal today goes through. The progress party thinks it's stupid, just as we think it's stupid that those who depend on driving Bastø Fosen, Horten-Moss, have to pay the full price. So that's the difference. We are concerned that everyone should travel by ferry without paying for it, because it is part of the infrastructure. We have not managed to get a majority for that, but we are promoting our proposal again. Then we have a proposal that we are with the Central Party on, proposal No. 1 and we will subsidize proposal No. 4, although we believe that that proposal is a little unreasonable for many who travel by ferry and depend on ferries and fast boats, and still get no reduction in the fare. But it's better than nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1737	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1742	The centre party is taking up the fight for better and cheaper ferry and fast boat offers, and I am addressing the suggestions that the centre party has made on this matter. I will clarify, after listening to the other speakers, that this matter goes much further than the ferry agreement, to which they referred. The centre party is behind the ferry agreement, but with this proposal we want to go a lot further. To the representative Hoksrud: No, the centre party does not go in for the full price of the ferry sections that he mentioned, we are behind the ferry agreement in half price of these sections. In addition, we want and promote proposals on the maximum price for commuters. So this ferry battle that we've been at the forefront of leading, will lead to cheaper prices for everyone. But with this proposal, we will start with free boat and ferry to those who live far away, and those who do not have a continental connection. The centre party has been the ones who have taken this fight every year. In recent times, more and more people have joined our positions, and that's great, because we need more parties to get involved in getting prices down. High costs of ferries and fast-seats are disproportionately affected, both socially and geographically, and people along the coast are suffering from unreasonably severe consequences. As tickets on ferries and fast boat are not differentiated by income, this is probably an example of a cost that affects those with the lowest income. Therefore, the Senterpartiet will provide cheaper ferries and speedboats. The Progress Party is now trying to present the party as the heroes of the coast, but if one reads the proposal from the Progress Party, they have not proposed to do the ferries free of charge. They have proposed that the government submit proposals on this until next year. The Progress Party has been responsible for all state budgets since 2013, so how credible is it that they are only now proposing to do something about ferry prices? But it is good to see that more people support the Center Party in that cheaper ferries and speedboats are important to ensure settlement throughout the country. The District Demography Committee, led by Victor D. Nordman, drew up a number of recommendations. the fact that free or cheaper ferries are a very important regional policy measure, and in their report, presented in December 2020, the sample states that: ‘It is wasted on society’s resources to collect ferry tickets and tolls on routes and ferry services that will have free capacity even without user payment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1756	The representative Siv Mossleth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1761	SV also believes, as the government parties, that it is natural to consider proposals relating to ferry prices in the follow-up to the request decision made here in the Chamber on 23 February this year. That's what I'm talking about. We take it for granted that the Stortinget will have the government's concrete follow-up in connection with the revised national budget in ours. However, once this proposal has been made, SV would like to have the best possible effect on the device, in the form of its own individual proposals. In a few rounds, the Progress Party has proposed free ferries from next year – simple and simple. It's maybe a captivating thought, and had SV been populistic enough and only had voice purchases in mind, it might be something for a district party like SV. But a modest requirement for consistent drawing should we, too, be demanded by the Progress Party? What about other public transport? I heard the representative Hoksrud took the parallel to other public transport. We have not heard anything about that from this pulpit from the mouths of the Progress Party. What about the T-Bahn and the train? Express buses from the districts, should they also be free of charge? Why does that have to be different here? I know a difference. On ferries, there are cars involved. In the case of tolls, cars are involved. Could it be a common denominator? I'm just asking. I might be wrong. In any case, this is the background to proposal No. 8, from SV, about public transport. In addition, a modest assessment of what a proposal implies should be requested. I cannot see any reservations, either in the proposals of the Progress Party or in the proposal of the Centre Party on almost free AutoPASS chips and free ferries to islands below a certain population. What about the locals who have to wait in line all summer because there is no capacity for them to bring with them easters and foreigners who are going on vacation to ferries – what about miles of cows? Is it perhaps a Bear Service Progress Party and the Center Party offers here? SV believes it is important to bring down ferry prices, especially for commuters, for those who live on the islands. We have to distinguish between local and arriving passengers. That is why we are promoting proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox The advance payment to the AutoPASS chip and the accompanying discount is too high. I guess that's $3,600. It's too high for many. But it can't be set so low that it doesn't have any meaning in terms of discounts. Then everyone can get a discount, and all the tourists want the piece. So we're equidistant – or even worse still. I therefore take up the suggestions that SV is behind. I would like to announce that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 5, from the Center Party, and invites them to support proposal No. 7 from SV, which is even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1781	The representative Arne Nävra has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1786	There has been a great deal of commitment around ferry prices and fast boat prices, which is a bit of a matter for today. I must say that I agree with the previous speaker, Mr Nävra, that this can be compared with many other fares in public transport. At least there I don't think the Left has such a very bad conscience, as we fight hard to put down the price of collective travel. Because we have faith in the market mechanisms, so that its cheaper, the more users. That's what can, of course, be the danger in terms of ferries and speedboats, that there won't be room for everyone. Arne Nävra was in on that problem. But in general, the Left believes that the price should be reduced, and we are excited about the proposals that come from the government in the revised national budget in May. That's where this belongs. We need to allow money through such a system, so that's where these proposals belong. That is why we will vote, as we have said in the committee position today, on these issues. So it's those who use these offers very much, and that's maybe the ones that apply in other public transport, by bus, multi-travel tickets, and stuff like that. It's probably those that it's important to look at in terms of the discount schemes that are there today. Because it is clear that those who depend on these daily ferry and fast boat offers have a high cost and should still get a discount scheme, so that there is a difference between them and those who might use them only occasionally on weekends. Discrimination actually creates equality in a free living and working environment. Then in the left we are very pleased that we get many electric vessels, both ferries and fast boats, and we look forward to that. We believe that the prices we have in operation today will immediately be lower, and then there may be hope that the ticket prices can be reduced even a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1797	Then we have come to a matter where at least I personally have a greater basis for experience than what I experienced in Arne Nävra presented in his article. Not only have I traveled a lot with both a ferry and a speedboat, I have also had the job of accepting the speedboat at home at Bømlo. Then I had two jobs, and it was selling tickets and taking the ladder up and down. Both tasks have actually been streamlined – the purchase of tickets through apps and the ladder through the fact that it has become automatic. But I thought it was nice to see the involvement in Stortinget at the price of both speedboats and ferries. I know it's occupying the coastal population. Nevertheless, I believe – and we should not forget this – that one of the most important things is what is available there. We must not forget that in this debate, because what we are adopting here is to be paid. And it's now even so that I believe the offer is the most important thing. Then we have experienced that on ferries it has been a quite large increase. It's because of the AutoPASS conversion we've had, which has made it free for those who travel without a car, i.e. the passengers. Then that cost is passed on to the cars. This has led to a fairly large increase. We also know that what is positive is that we now have a big change of climate – but it means that we have a slightly higher cost in the first few years, and that is the years we are now in. But then we also know that the operating costs in the long term are going to be lower. I have received a clear call decision that I am working on following up, and it is not that long before the revised national budget comes. Then we will have that debate, as the majority in the Committee points out. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that we must not forget that the quality of the coastal population is at least as important as the price question alone. When it concerns the debate related to AutoPASS: Yes, I have also received the lead to look at AutoPASS. But it's clear that if we go down to $200, there's a discount that applies to absolutely everyone. Then we've actually taken the opportunity from the coastal population to get that discount, because then it's given to everyone. And someone is going to pay for this, whether it's through the government budget or whether that's how we ignore this change that came about with the administrative reform in 2010, when the county got this responsibility. I look forward to the debate, not least the one related to RNB, and I'm doing what I can to follow up the decisions that are already made in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1814	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1819	The costs of the green shift have come to a great deal for the inhabitants along the coast. We have just adopted a climate plan and say that the green shift can provide local value creation and new export products. The county councils have contributed a lot with the introduction of new technology, especially on the ferry, but on the speedboat it is a little stopped. The feedback to us in the transport committee is that this is expensive with new boats, infrastructure and the tenders. Can the Council of State say anything about the government's ambition regarding the speedboats of the future and how to cover the costs of county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1826	I thought that mainly there were very good experiences from the holiday site. We have managed to get climate-friendly ferries. Now it's going to be said in the whole country. Some states are of course a little ahead of others. It is also so that this is Norwegian technology, it is Norwegian business that drives that development. I think we need to learn just in the speedboat area right now, that we get to the same positive development, that we get zero-emission ferries, and that we also get technology developed by Norwegian business. The export market is significantly larger than on ferries. The solution that the state has been to spit in money, but not least Enova's important work tied to ferries, should also be the solution we see in the speedboat sector. I feel that the county is offensive and positive, and I believe we will be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1831	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that these are great opportunities for our country and our coast. The Council of State was also involved in AutoPASS, the benefits for those travellers who do not have a car, but that it costs more for the drivers. We get pretty soon, in the revised, the answer to how the Council of States views it, but my question now is: Will there be any changes in the AutoPASS system? Does the Council of State realize that there may be an answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1838	I feel that the assignment I received from Stortinget was to see the wholeness. Then I thought it was natural to also look at the AutoPASS level. What I commented on in my post, and as I thought the representative, Mr. Leirtrø, would bring up here, is: what is the right level? I think the signals I received from Stortinget are that the level today is quite high. $3,700 is a pretty big sum. But if we do go all the way down to NOK 200 – I think it was the representative Arne Nävra who took it up in his post – it is a discount for absolutely everyone. That's kind of the discount away. Then we have actually chosen to go away from the concept we have. So it's a debate we have to take. But I have also chosen to look at that issue. We know we're in the interview with RNB, but I think it's natural that there's also a part of what the Stortinge assesses when RNB comes, to see the health. That's definitely also AutoPASS is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1843	I think it is good that the Council of State talked a lot about the costs and that there is someone who has to pay if you have free ferries. But I feel that the Council of State is in the quaint of those who are very concerned about replacing them with zero-emissions, etc., and in connection with that, there are huge costs in many places to put the infrastructure of the ferries in place. Maybe the Council of State will have a little less optimism and enthusiasm to put on the kind of costs for those who use the ferry, because it's to a large extent the ones who pay that bill too, so it's about what's important. Is it actually getting the costs down a little bit for those who have to pay – or removing them, if you want to? It is about the political priorities. Does the Council of State see that it is a challenge for those who depend on ferries, as long as the Council of State and the Government do not want to eliminate the costs of those who use the ferries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1850	I think it's a good question the representative Hoksrud takes up, because I think that if we want that conversion, we know that it can be a cost, and then we have to take it with us. I believe that what has been called the ferry uprising has caused something of the extra cost. The vacationers have been patient, they have paid the ferry ticket for decades after decades, but they have experienced that with some of what happened to the couple-three last years, the increase has been too great. Yes, AutoPASS is part of it, but not the full explanation. And the climate change that we're forced to do, it's increased. I think we should take that with us. That is why I think that some of the leads I have received from Stortinget have been positive, but I also think that we have to think carefully about it. When it comes to AutoPASS, I think it might be right to do something about the level, but maybe not remove it completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1855	Tomorrow I might have thought of taking a trip to Røst. Ferra leaves at five o'clock in the morning from Bodø, but the Korona has postponed my trip. A voice is a very important fishing community. Dryfish from Røst is one of the national laws of Italy. The neighboring island of Værøy is also very big on fish. If one of the people who lives on Værøy needs to take a small passenger car out of the municipality, take the state ferry – which Transport Ministers from the Progress Party have run for many years – to Bodø with their car, and they cannot afford to pay NOK 3 600 for AutoPASS discount, the ferry costs NOK 996. My question is, what will the ferry from Røst to Bodø cost with a car?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1865	So with the changes we're making here, this type of ferries will also get a lower cost. What I've been told by Stortinget is that they want 50 pst. reduction in a plan, and that's my intention to follow it up. Then this stretch will be treated like the other stretch. It is entirely in line with my intention to follow up the proposal that lies there. What was my point about AutoPASS is that yes, it's $3,700 that's the limit today at AutoPASS, but it's clear that it also makes it clear that those who use that discount are the ones who travel a lot by ferry, i.e. the coastal population. If we see that this is a discount that applies to everyone, we can lower it to $200, as the Central Party suggests, but that means that everyone gets a discount, and that could affect the coastal population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1872	I understand that the minister could not take on what it costs to travel from Røst to Bodø with a small passenger car, but it costs 1,228 kroner one way. If you cannot afford AutoPASS, you must double that amount when you are going back with the car. So it's $2,456 round/return, which is almost $2,500. There is an incredible amount of money for everyone, but especially for those who have poor advice and cannot get this discount. For almost eight years, this right-wing government, with the Progress Party on the team, has centralised, closed down services and pursued a policy that has given rise to a district uprising. What's the reason why the minister can't afford to pay in arrears on ferries, when it's done for tolls on the car all the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1879	We might discuss whether we should have another solution on ferries, but my point is very simple: yes, it has a cost that we do in this area, and then we have to take it from one place. I'm not sure if it's wise for the coastal population to take from the advantage they've attached to the discount. Is it that we lower AutoPASS to zero – or actually 200 kroner – everyone will get that discount, so it's actually taking from the coastal population an advantage they have today. So we can say we're going to lower everything, but then we also have to have money for it. I think what we should be careful about now is just to make statements about free of charge both on the one hand and on the other. I believe the people know it won't be delivered to. I also think we should be aware that one of the most important things for the coastal population is the supply they receive. It's not just the money that matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1886	In my post I pointed to the consequences of the proposals that are on the table today. We saw everything last year, where there were no proposals on the table and nothing had been adopted here in the hall on ferry prices, that there were large cows at the ferries. The Nordics were supposed to go on vacation in their own country. That's great, but it turned out to be a long wait for the local population. What I was wondering was the Council of State's assessment of the proposals that are on the table from among others. The Progress Party, considering their impact on the local population. Has the Council of State and the Department calculated or assessed how this will turn out with regard to the ferry capacity we have, and how much local population might now have to wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1893	That's a good question. I don't think I'm going to give the impression that we have very clear answers to that, but we know that if things get free, it gets more demand. I also think that the summer of 2021 is going to be a Norway summer for most of us. We saw some cows just tied to the ferries. I think it's part of what the locals are used to. They know that it's a queue just in the summer months. But it's hard to put up with it after a request that happened at that time, for example. The coast is part of our travel life measures. I kind of think it's hard to add up to a supply that's so high. What I think the coastal people are busy about is that they get an offer. They probably also thought the price increase has been too great in recent years, but I think they are positive for the climate change that is taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1900	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1907	In the local view of Finland last week, we could read that the Central Party will punish people in the coastal communities. They do not support the Progress Party which has worked hard and long for free ferries. The centre party has taken the fight for cheaper ferries and speedboats every year. We will now start by providing free ferry and fast boat services to communities without road connections to the mainland and ferry connections with less than 100000 passengers per year. The Progress Party has not proposed to do the ferries free of charge, but they have proposed that the government should submit proposals on this until next year. The Progress Party has no credibility in ferry policy. A solid ferry insurrection was the legacy of the six years in government of the Progress Party, with responsibility for finance and transport. The ferry revolt came because the Advance Party and the government would not bring down the ferry prices. On the contrary, ferry prices increased enormously with the Progress Party in government. The progress party was previously also against tolls, but the result after the Progress Party had the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance, was that there has never been as much toll as in that period. Before Christmas, the Senterpartiet presented a proposal for a better boat and ferry policy. Among the proposals was to obtain a national maximum price for boat and ferry tickets, where the state fully compensates for the loss of income of the counties by introducing such a scheme. Only the Central Party and the Red Party voted in favour of this proposal. The other parties voted against. I encourage everyone to support the proposals of the Center Party, both: ‘The Government is requesting the introduction of a free ferry and fast boat system for non-road communities to the mainland and considering making all ferry connections with less than 100000 passengers free of charge annually.’ And... ‘The deposit requests the government to introduce a refund payment for AutoPASS on ferries, with a deposit amount, equal to the AutoPASS toll scheme.’ So it means free to get this system. People pay enough taxes and do not in our opinion have to pay several thousand kroner to get this piece. Finally, I would like to say that we have received many new ferries, so-called environmental ferries. But what's important is that when the Storting decides to get such ferries, you have to make sure that these ferries are able to go when it's a little bad weather. In my experience, that is not the case, as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1932	It'll be a break until voting time. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1944	The vote will then be taken at voting time and will begin with voting, which will remain on agenda No. 66 from Tuesday 13 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1956	In this case, there was a similar voice in the one vote, and in line with Paragraph 61 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will re-approve the vote above the III, Paragraph 25, second paragraph, second, third and fourth sentences: The Committee had decided to adopt the following decisions:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1978	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e1990	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2000	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2012	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to consider measures to ensure that providers in the field of free choice of treatment are also required to have a clinical ethics committee». The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2257	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2268	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2280	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Kjersti Top on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that Gaustad Hospital be maintained as a treatment institution for patients in mental health protection and interdisciplinary specialised drug treatment, and that plans to prevent the use of the hospital and hospital areas for this patient group be stopped.’ The Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Greens/European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2310	Proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to launch an investigation into alternative development options for Oslo University Hospitals and to come back to Stortinget with proposals on how to organise an investigation into the localisation options.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2327	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is not asked to allow the demolition of functional building stock at Oslo University Hospital, and to await any demolition plans until after stage 2 of New Oslo University Hospital is regulated and investigated in the preliminary project and detailed plans are in place to ensure that the entire population of Groruddalen is provided with its local hospital services at Aker Hospital.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2344	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government not to allow the sale of hospital premises on Ullevål and awaits any sale decision until after stage 2 of the New Oslo University Hospital is regulated and investigated in the pre-project and detailed plans are in place to ensure that the entire population of Groruddalen is offered its local hospital services at Aker hospital.’ The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2389	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Tore Hagebakken on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 3, from the Bears of Moxnes on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the activities of Granheim Pulmonary Disease are maintained and extended in order to address the need for the treatment and rehabilitation of pulmonary diseases.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2418	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the rehabilitation offer at Granheim is maintained and strengthened, with sufficient staff and medical resources until the evaluation has been completed and that Granheim lung disease is also equipped to handle rehabilitation for patients with covid-19 disease.’ The centre party and the environmental party Dei Green have already received subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2435	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the supply of Granheim lung disease is maintained as a minimum at the same level as today, until the announced evaluation of the need for rehabilitation and treatment for pulmonary disease in the region is completed.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already given subsidiary support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2459	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2522	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2532	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting. Case No. 12 was an interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2546	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Ole André Myhrvold, on behalf of the Centre Party, the Left Party and the Green Party No 4-16, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment Proposal No. 4–16, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a systematic monitoring of the need for flood and tailoring measures across the country and to report to the Stortinget on the progress of this work in relation to the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a full plan for financing and implementing the necessary measures in the area of flood and step-by-step prevention and to report to the Stortinge on the progress of this work in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure, as soon as possible, a full monitoring of the risks to the population of mercury deposits and other vulnerable areas throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for adequate information on step-by-step risk and guidance on how to deal with the information to be provided to citizens in outlying areas.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased appropriations for emergency seats to strengthen its capacity for crisis management, even if several accidents were to occur at the same time, and to return to Stortingen with a draft budget at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support for the work of municipalities and counties on climate adaptation, and to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a budget, at the latest, in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals which make it clear in the law who is responsible for securing existing settlements against floods and migration.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a system of acceptable risk limits for existing buildings and infrastructure equivalent to the acceptable risk for new constructions as laid down in the Construction Regulation [[TEK17]] Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a full review of the rules for the development of mercury clay and other non-negligible areas and to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for intensification to reduce risks and ensure that each municipality does not have decisive responsibility for risk assessments.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider the introduction of a national ban on new construction in grade 5 mercury regions. ‘... Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national ban on new construction in areas where NVE suspects mercury but has not yet been adequately mapped.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the appropriations for road and rail road and rail safety and to return to Stortinget with a draft budget at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the work of restoring ants and other natures in order to make society more robust against extreme weather, floods and floods.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2635	Proposal No. 1-3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a flood and step-by-step forecast, with an overall knowledge base and a plan for the management of the flood and progress situation of the future in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for a State fund scheme from which county municipalities can seek funds when major damage occurs as a result of unforeseen natural events.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of NVE’s work on flood and rapid response prevention in order to secure the areas that are currently known to be exposed and to return to the Stortinge with a draft budget at the latest in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2679	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2698	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Else-May Norderhus on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party Dei Green proposal No 2, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party proposal No 3, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment Proposals Nos 4-6, by Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA Group Proposal No. 4, from the Environmental Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose a new environmental tax that favours low resource consumption and land consumption through the life cycle of a product. The fee shall reward the quality, durability and reuse of materials already in the economy and stimulate a more circular economy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2728	Proposals Nos 5 and 6 from the Greens/Greens/EFA will be voted on. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reduce the rate of VAT to zero on re-use and repair of consumer electronics, sports and tour equipment, white and brown goods, furniture, clothing and shoes and on parts needed for the repair.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure, through proposals for changes to the law on second-hand trade and changes to the second-hand trade regulation, that re-use shops can receive goods from persons under 18 years of age, not to register products with a low value for sale individually, and to allow them to sell such goods immediately at the store.’ Red has already given its support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2752	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to reintroduce a ban on the marketing of additives.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2769	Proposal No. 2, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking how standardisation requirements can be imposed on different product groups in order to reduce unnecessary additional purchases, consumption, costs and environmental pressures.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2787	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set aside funds to support types of lending schemes other than equipment centres for sports and leisure equipment, for example for tools and other products suitable for sharing.’ Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2854	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2866	We shall then proceed to the vote on the matter from Monday 19 April, agenda No. Sixty-eight. Case No. 1 was a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2880	A total of 15 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 3-6, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 7-12, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, by Anniken Huitfeldt on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 14 and 15, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Mr Henriksen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2906	There is an explanation of vote. The Labour Party has promoted proposal No. 13 in Case No. 2 to put in place a thorough decision-making base with the goal of achieving the North Norway track. We think it is a good proposal, but we see that it is possible that that proposal does not get a majority. We don't want to get into a situation where there's a real majority in this room that will say that work on the track is going to start, but that a disagreement around formulations means that nothing is going to be adopted. That is why we are choosing to vote in a subsidiary way for proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We see it as an intentional sale in line with what the Workers' Party has proposed, and that normal investigation and prioritisation processes are followed. That's what we're doing to get work done, and we're going to support sales no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2911	Proposal No. 8, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the establishment of a Northern Region Directorate, to be located in North Norway.’ The Greens have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2928	Proposal No. 7, 9-12, 14 and 15, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with its own case on how it will follow the recommendations of the Northern Region Communication of Youth: A Northern Region Policy for Youth.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a new strategy for rescheduling and cooperation in the north. This should specifically address the need for concrete resuscitation measures in the North and the strengthening of the Arctic multilateral cooperation bodies.’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national large-scale digital technology programme to return to the United Kingdom in order to promote knowledge and competence building across the country.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy to increase opportunities for local vocational training in cooperation with local enterprises from the first day.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on value creation in North Norway with efforts and concrete measures to address the main challenges for the development of the national divide.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a research strategy to strengthen north-eastern research, with emphasis on social sciences and humanities, and to strengthen the place of the Nordic research communities in north-eastern research.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to move the coordination work of North Norway’. The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e2978	Proposal No. 3, 4 and 6 from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Barents Secretariat is given a firm commitment to the State budget from 2022.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: "The government is asking the government to develop an application to reduce the maintenance run on the county roads. The programme shall outline a follow-up plan for county road maintenance with proposals for funding models and an organisation aimed at enhancing maintenance and post-storage on the county road network.’» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a pilot project in North Norway where a greater part of the higher education provision of the region’s universities is made available at study and higher education centres.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3008	Proposal No. 5, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to the Higher Education Structural Communication with a plan to strengthen the regional role of the study sites and describing how to strengthen broad professional training and practical research in order to ensure access to decentralised education across the country. Future higher education at Nesna shall be part of the plan.» The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3025	Proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a thorough decision-making basis for the North Norway Railway in the National Transport Plan – to clarify trasé and technology choices, climate impacts, costs and progress – so that the project is brought forward with the aim of achieving the North Norway Railway.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3042	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for strengthening Barents’ cooperation and cross-border civil cooperation in the Barents region through a longer-term and strengthened funding model that ensures greater predictability and better framework conditions.’ The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3059	Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to initiate efforts to realise North Norgebana’. The Labour Party, the Greens and Reds have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3093	Furthermore, it was set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3114	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Siv Henriette Jacobsen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals that can help to increase the number of people with reduced working capacity and organisational needs to be at work.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3140	Proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a further increase in the number of permanent, organised jobs in order to strengthen the supply of work to the disadvantaged.’ The centre party, the environmental party Dei Green and Red have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3164	The Socialist Left Party and the Greens have already received subsidiary support for the vote. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3183	During the debate, Mr Wiborg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present the necessary legislative proposals to ensure the right to daily allowances and sick leave for working age and subject to the pension reform up to the age of 72, with a further increase in response to the need.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3200	Red is in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3219	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 2-4, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 5, by Eirik Faret Sakariassen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the use of figures and statements provided by Nav in line with the Chapter of the Equality and Discrimination Act. 4 on the obligation of activity and presentation, to propose the necessary measures to ensure better non-discrimination between the employees of the State and the Municipality of Nav.’.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3248	Proposal No. 1, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a plan showing what is needed for organisational changes and strengthening the professional skills of the establishment’s professionals so that the first line of the Nav offices in municipalities and urban areas can take decisions on temporary benefits and labour-oriented measures in line with the original objectives of the Nav reform. This is in order to meet the need for authorised Nav offices in all municipalities and urban areas where the local government decides to do so.» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3265	Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that the first line of Nav be strengthened so that the individual user is seen as an individual and that Nav becomes less bureaucratic.’ Red is in favour of the proposal. The Socialist Left has already received subsidiary support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3282	Proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to present the necessary legislative proposals to terminate the Nav partnership and to place all Nav services and services under one State guideline.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3305	Alternatively, between the recommendation of the Committee and proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to assess the termination of the partnership and bring together all Nav services and services under one government guideline.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3320	Case No. 6 was an interpellation. The size then goes on to vote on case No. 1-8 on today's map, agenda no. 69. Case No. 1 is the second processing of laws and applies to legislation 92. There are no comments suggested. The law of the Grand Duchy is agreed upon during the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3384	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3394	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3406	During the debate, Mr Andersen presented a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left and the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, asks the government to secure Ekebergsletta as a State-secured open-air area.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee shall be rejected. Red is in favour of the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3477	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3487	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3499	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Anette Trettebergsttuen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposed no. 2-4, from Freddy André Supreme Court on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposed no. 5-8, by the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red Proposal No. 7 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to engage in dialogue with the social partners on wage developments in occupational groups in critical social functions, in particular women’s dominated professions, in order to find out what the government can contribute by means of appropriations to ensure wage increases.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3528	Proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures in the context of the revised national budget for women’s dominated professions which are particularly affected by the effects of the coronary situation on the economy and working life in both the short and longer term, including measures for increased full time, the launch of long-term reduced working hours, the increase of manpower and the start of dialogue with the parties on pay gap for women’s dominated professions in the public sector, as well as specific measures in women’s dominated private sector industries such as service industries.’ The Environment Party and Mr Raudt have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3545	Proposal No. 8 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to secure financial resources for the action plan against violence in close relations and to return to the United Kingdom in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have already supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3562	Proposal No. 5 and 6 from Red. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asked to present a long-term employment plan with targeted measures for groups particularly severely affected by unemployment.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify discrimination and racism in the labour market in order to implement concrete measures for recruitment processes and recruitment, with the aim of getting more people to work.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3587	Proposal No. 2 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the gender impact of the coronary crisis is examined, both in the short and long term, and that there are recommendations for action to address negative gender impact, by, for example, clarifying this in the mandate of the Corona Commission.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Norway takes on a driving role internationally in the use of the Corona situation to prevent sexual and reproductive health and rights, such as abortion, and that development policy takes into account the economic impact of the pandemic in particular.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have already supported the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3611	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for research to be carried out that looks at the gender impact of the coronary apathy and looks at the crisis measures introduced from a gender perspective.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3628	The President will propose that the statement be appended to the minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e3640	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Giske on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to limit the scope of the law on collective management of copyright, etc. for membership organisations in accordance with the Directive on collective rights management, and to return to the Stortinget by clarifying that the law does not alter current collective remuneration practices, such as scholarships.’;» The Greens and Reds have already given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4536	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4546	The law decision will be passed until a second time treatment is given in a later Storting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4565	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4577	Continue processing of
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4592	We have just discussed the Northern Region Communication, which makes it clear that the overall policy objectives of North Norway, among others, are: are boating, well-being and increased job and value creation. At the same time, the district demographics committee believes that it is appropriate to reduce prices or remove tickets on ferries with free capacity in order to increase the benefits of the ferry offer. The proposal of the centre party in the case addresses both of these aspects, but most importantly, it is a proposal that is a requirement of the coastal population itself. We can't expect people to live where the resources are, when it costs a quarter of a month to bring the family and caravans on a weekend trip to the neighbouring municipality. So the question is, why should the state contribute more? Well, that's because housing and value creation across the country requires political will and political priority, and the Central Party wants to prioritise that very thing. If we look at the operating budgets of the ferries, it is obvious that there is no more to pick up. The route offer has been reduced to far below what should be a minimum, and prices are too high. We in the Center Party are painfully aware of that, but it is no longer going on in today's income system and with today's arrangements. At the same time as we've been involved in the past, it's being transformed into a low- and zero-emission ship as a state requirement. This is expensive, but not fully compensated. When three new ferries on the Helgeland coast are immediately switched to electric power, emissions are reduced by 4000 tonnes of CO 2 annually. It is very good, but we believe that the additional expenditure must be fully compensated by the state and not be charged to the county councils. The centre party also proposes that the payment with AutoPASS on the ferries should be equal to the bomb striker scheme. Then only a deposit of 200 kroner is paid and journeys are invoiced. The current cloud-high pre-payment solution is very unfair. It frightfully falters in society and makes many simply unable to afford a discount. At the same time, coastal transport operators have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to Skyttel AS. For us who depend on the ferry, it is our ‘bomb road’, and we believe that the arrangements must be equated. That's why $200 is enough. I noticed that the Council of State was concerned that if everyone were to get the same discount, it would again affect the coastal population, but I believe that when everyone can get bombers for the car for 200 kroner, regardless of where you live in the country, it should be equal to ferries. Of course, I would like a majority in Stortinget to see the importance of supporting our proposals in this matter. All the beautiful words about district development, industrial development, value creation and housing fall on stone floor if you don't see the need to introduce the one reform that people actually want, the one about financing the ferry and fast boat service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4616	It's not just easy to record the thread after half an hour of vote in Stortinget. But I have asked for the word to clarify some details in this matter. First of all, I would like to inform you that the Central Party will vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the SV, and subsidized for proposal No. 7, from SV. And it is that the decision in this matter is that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Minutes. Then I want to clarify a little bit more about what the minister said about the offer being important, it's not just the price that applies. The Central Party fully agrees with this. Proposal No. 1, which has been promoted by the Centre Party and the Advance Party, is very clear that we want a plan to ensure and improve the ferry and fast boat services along the coast. It doesn't help with cheap or free ferry services if the ferry doesn't go. So we just have to confirm that this case is completely clear: we want to have good and improved offers. Then the representative from Bøkestad Andreassen took up how many of our proposals are completely concrete. Proposal No. 4 applies to free ferry and fast boat services for communities without road connection to mainland and ferry services with less than 100000 passengers per year. We want a maximum price for commuters who depend on ferry and fast boat services. We also want AutoPASS for ferries, with a deposit amount, equal to the AutoPASS for tolls. It goes for a car, and it has to go for a car on a ferry. Finally, I would like to say a little about the importance of value creation in the districts. Many of the communities that depend on boats and ferries are also societies with very high value creation. There may be little people in some of these coastal areas, but it's often communities that are very important for the large export revenues we have from fishing and aquaculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4635	Now I'm not in this committee, but as a citizen of Northern Ireland, it's clear that the ferry debate is getting us along. I observe that the Center Party, in various local media, hassles with the fact that the Advance Party has now become so sorry that we do not receive support for all ferries being free, and then they also claim that this is something new we have come with, suddenly, after we have come out of government. Then I must be allowed to point out that once again, unfortunately, the centre party is quite historyless. The progress party has had free ferries in its party program for many years, but the device has been slightly different after the red-greens promised us a revolution in the area, after the red-greens in the municipal proposition promised that everything would be so good when the administrative reform was adopted in 2010, a reform that would almost take the county municipalities and the ferries to new heights. But the county councils don't take responsibility. They only impose greater and greater burdens on the population, which depend on these services. So this is nothing new. Once again, when the Center Party makes claims out of the blue -- or maybe I'll say out of the green -- they should check the story around this. At the same time, the Center Party also accuses the Advance Party of forgetting the speedboats. This is also proven to be wrong. We are together with the Center Party in the comment that says that high costs for ferries and speedboats are going wrong, and that the inhabitants along the coast are being hit unreasonably hard. In addition, it is stated in the comments of the Progress Party that we support proposal No by the Central Party. 1, which has now become proposal No. 4, which states that ‘The government is asking for a free ferry and fast boat system for communities without road connections’, etc. So these are proposals which the Progress Party supports in a subsidiary way, even if we had of course hoped that our proposal for free ferries for all would have been adopted. But when it comes to this in plain text in the Central Party setting, why should the Advance Party write a separate proposal? And then I wonder if that's how the Center Party is really against the fact that the Progress Party supports some of their proposals. Then they should say it rather than try an alternative storywriting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4650	Helge Orten [[H]] There is now a request decision — there are actually two, but one in particular — to be followed up in the context of the revised budget. Then we're going to have a real discussion, where all parties have to sit down and evaluate this against other priorities that one might have, and have a binding plan to reduce ferry prices. I'm looking forward to that, and it's going to be very positive. So a little comment that the Center Party says they've been fighting for cheaper ferries every year. Yeah, does the Center Party really have that? If we go back and look at the alternative budgets that the Central Party has put forward, at least throughout all the years I've been on the Stortinget, I can't discover very big steps to bring down the ferry prices, and that's a matter of priority. I can't find the big grips to make the big reductions in holiday prices in the Central Party's alternative budgets. The second is that where the Center Party itself sits and rules in the county municipalities, they have done the opposite. You have run out of money. One might want to blame the fact that there is not enough money available, but that is the model that the Senterpartiet itself was in and adopted in 2010. It is within the framework of the county councils that one should give priority to this, and that freedom has also been enjoyed by the central party in the county municipalities to reduce ferry prices, if they so wish. So I believe that making yourself so very high and dark now – if it's a parliamentary expression, President – and saying that they've always been sitting here and helping to try to reduce ferry prices, it's just going to be wrong. I can't find it in the work that the Central Party has done in Stortinget, and I can't find it in the work the Center Party has done in the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4659	It was interesting to follow the end of the debate before voting instead, where the right hand side of the Center Party is almost as if it was a problem that the Progress Party wants free travel. A typing reading entry will try to generate a number from which the Progress Party did not get enough government in this field, and one almost makes a number out that one has not done anything. If you look at the facts, you see what has increased the income of the county councils in the almost eight years that we've worked together on the civic side. These are significant amounts of money set aside for delinquency. The challenge is that the politicians in the municipalities have given priority to spending the money on something else. They have not used them for what we would like: more road construction and lower ferry prices. So there's a lot of people in this room that should assume that one has created a system of county councils that directly prevents the money from being targeted at what we want them to be used for. If you look at the history of the Center Party here, there is not much to shout for. I was a deputy in the last period of the Red-Green government and was in here a couple of weeks and then asked some questions to Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad. I would recommend all the central parties both here in the hall and in the country to read the answers I received from Marit Arnstad, who was then Minister of Transport. It is quite similar to the answers given by today's Minister of Transport. One points to a administrative reform and that this is a responsibility of the county. Therefore, it was not possible for the then Minister of Transport to do anything when I asked questions. It was also not possible to do anything about the advance payment challenge to get the discount. Then the then-coming Minister of Transport from the Center Party replied that no, that's not true, then everyone will get the discount, then the economy will collapse in the financing arrangement, so she advised against going on with it. Then you can't pretend the Center Party is for something that they themselves have had the opportunity to introduce when they sat with the Minister of Transport. It is simply not credible, what the Central Party is involved in the ferry pricing policy. Had a really busy part of this, it could be a voice for the proposal we had in the crisis package. That would have been half the price from March 1st this year. There is nothing to stop one from joining the proposals we have had, but attacking us because we have not done enough will be completely wrong when all the facts show that we have both contributed more money to the county councils, we have contributed proposals here, and we have proposed to shut down the county council, which would mean that Stortinget had direct financial responsibility. If you want lower ferry prices, at least you don't want to smoke the center part of the house. Then a better strengthen the Progress Party, so that we can get the government to do more in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4670	The representative Siv Mossleth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4675	The Right Party and the Advance Party have been responsible for the state budgets for almost eight years. They've fed the county councils hunger. The centre party has spent more money on the budgets of the county municipalities all those years. So to the representative Sweetheart: the Progress Party has had the Minister of Transport for many years. I want to ask the representative, Sweetie, if she knows how much it costs with a Røst passenger car. The representative was not present when we talked about this earlier today. So it's going to cost 1,228 kroner every way if you can't afford to buy AutoPASS for ferries. It provides a return cost of almost NOK 2 500 – and it is on the Guard The Advance Party has had.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4682	That's a little bit of some story stories we get from Stortingen's pulpit. Once again, the Progress Party owes it to the county council, but it is also a national road network that has the same increases in fares. It is a co-ordinated increase that has asked the government to come back in revision with halving the tariffs, harmonising and also looking at AutoPASS and reducing the advance payment. The county road connections and the speedboats are responsible for the county municipalities, and they got it in 2010. From 2013 the Progress Party was part of the government. Since then, new technologies have been needed, following the adoption of climate targets by the Storting, and this has not been fully funded. We have introduced a tunnel safety regulation where it has not been fully financed. We have a race insurance plan that has not been followed up. We have a broadband and mobile coverage that still requires county funds. So in total it is that the county council has been given responsibility for new tasks, is not financed, and it must also be part of the Progress Party and take responsibility for it. I agree with the local representative that this has already been decided by Stortinget, so there will be some election campaign. We'll see what the government comes back with in the revised, and then we'll see if we can adjust the solutions that come then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4691	There are many articulate stories from the pulpit here today in terms of ferries and ferry prices. The funny thing is that when the Center Party and the Workers' Party ran the Ministry of Transport eight years ago, the budget for transport was about half of what it is today. It definitely means that there's come a lot of money to make sure that there's more traffic in the whole country. In addition, the county councils are not hungry. The counties have received quite a lot of extra money in those years the Progress Party was part of the government, and by the government now. When I listen to the Center Party, it's like you've got a lot of money. How much money did the Senter Party have in its alternative state budget for ferries this year? It wasn't a single penny to reduce the price of the ferry tickets. They had money to compensate for increased costs associated with zero-emission ferries, but there was no money to reduce the price of ferry tickets. It's okay to have the Center Party say we didn't do that much. Well, we actually did a lot. But the Progress Party wants even more. We want to remove it that you have to pay to travel with ferries in Norway. The center party hasn't got anything here in this room for eight years, but they've run most of the states around, along with the red-green parties. What they've done is they've increased the price. They have built new ferries that cost a lot more money, and that makes you get the ferry uprising because you hadn't taken up the challenges, but the Progress Party has done so. That is why we have today's proposal to provide free ferries. It's a little weird to listen to the Central Party saying that this is really what they want, but they're not going to vote for the proposal. We are now voting in favour of some of the proposals we are in favour of, although they are not as good as the proposals of the Progress Party to remove the price to travel with ferries in Norway. To the representative Nävra: I have heard nothing but that we have talked about collective. Then I dare to remind you that under eight years of red-green government this town got barely one penny here. It was about a picture of shine, what got you to strengthen the collective effort. After nearly seven years with the Advance Party in government and almost eight years with a non-socialist government, Oslo has got many, many hundred million dollars to strengthen the collective offer, just to make it cheaper for those who use it. To the Centre Party, which is trying to chatter with the Toll Resistance of the Advance Party: Yes, the Progress Party has voted against more than 40 of the toll projects that have been promoted in this Chamber since 2010. The centre party, as if they were opposed later on, has not voted against a single proposal – not one of the 80 proposals that have been discussed in this Chamber. I guess that shows that it's the Center Party that should go in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4709	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4731	Societal economic profitability, or socio-economic benefits, is a central concept of development decisions in Norwegian transport. We've heard about it many times, and we've read about it many times in our papers, in the cases of the Transport Committee. Many ask important questions about this. Which models are used to calculate this? What reasons are given the most weight? Is it just financial considerations? Is there any difference between the models in the Nordic countries? These are absolutely central questions. But perhaps the most serious thing is whether it is possible to set up the models so that you get the answers that the responsible politicians read: the government parties, at any time want to get? So, as you call in the woods, you get answers. These are absolutely key questions, and I think many of these considerations can quickly go under the radar. It's probably the office that works on these models, not the politicians, and I've said it many times: I don't think the office lives in a political vacuum. Especially for a government that sits for some years, it is possible to give leadership in some direction on some of these parameters. These are very important questions to think about. It can turn out several ways, depending on which government sits, but the principles around it we should be aware of, and we should go into it a little bit, ask some questions and get some answers. The president quoted what the three researchers from TØI, the Transport Economics Institute, recently wrote: ‘The Norwegian national transport plans contribute to a net socio-economic loss while contributing to a net increase in CO 2 emissions.’ Obviously, these are strong words. But is that what we want? Are we on the right track, towards a green and sustainable future, with this? You can ask questions about that. The concepts that are used a little bit around each other are also involved in blurring and deceiving. Cost-benefit assessments are not the same as socio-economic analysis. The last one should contain something a lot more. These questions should be of such interest that the hall should really be full here today. Traffic leaves farms with so many billions in the state budget that how we prioritise, what underlies the decisions, should be of top interest, not just to the politicians, of course, but to curious digging journalists as well. The models include key parameters such as time savings and carbon prices of emissions. These are all not randomly selected. And that's not without meaning to the outcome of what we're coming out with. If you put the price of carbon down and e.g. If the time savings are more important in the models, the four-field motorway will come out at high speed, even if ants are excavated and mountains blown up. Let me take one by one these criteria that are incorporated into the models. Then we can pretty easily see how easy it is to change the conclusions by changing the criteria, the parameters, that are inserted. This is not least the case in the choice between a simpler road solution than four fields, and between the concepts of road or rail, for example, in view of what choices we are going to have in a corridor. Take the time factor first: when you enter a high value for shorter travel time, it is obvious that you will have a four-field motorway with 110 km/h instead of a safe and fully usable road with two and three fields with 90 km/h. It may well have been the two previously speedy state councils that we've had in the government before, the blue-blue, were happy for such an angle on the models. We're not going to ignore it. The time gain from saving travel time is high per time unit. But the time value of a ruined life and a long hospitalization, or a life of reduced quality due to. traffic damage, resulting in much lower value per time unit. Rune Elvik, researcher at TØI, has put his finger on an article entitled ‘Better to be dead than to be in a queue?’. It is said that the value of avoided deaths in traffic has been significantly reduced from 2014 to 2018. Why is the value of a life set down by several million dollars in the State Road Service Manual? This is a crucial question. Consider how much such a valuation means for the advantage of the railway compared to the road, for example. It's absolutely crucial. So we have a new parameter that comes in. So for energy and electricity: with the relatively low price of power as it is in Norway today, rail energy efficiency does little to calculate profitability. Is it possible to take into account a likely increase in the power price in the future? Because in any case, there will be a struggle for our valuable power, not least when the country, yes the whole world, is electrified. The socio-economic cost of energy use should logically be higher, as many projects have a long lifetime. Energy pricing is strongly reflected in the relationship between rail and a road solution. It's obvious, because the railway is very energy efficient. So to the greenhouse gas emissions of the civil engineering in many of our transportation projects. This has been very little assessed in the submitted NTP and is a field government almost ignored. Yes then, a zero emission report was made in the civil engineering sector, it came well in January this year, but it took care of the fuel, only the energy carriers, in the engine park, not the expansion itself, it was skipped. We're talking about blasting, using concrete and asphalt, and not least excavating land, which ants. Both the method of calculation of emissions and the carbon price play an important role. The NRK has had several excellent reports that have put greenhouse gas emissions from excavating ants on the agenda. As far as I understand it, and the Council of State would like to correct me, the government's determination of the carbon price is based on emissions from builds on input from the floors. As far as I understand it, the railway budget would have set a price of NOK 2 000 per tonne of CO2, while the road networks, with New Roads at their head, would have NOK 1000 per tonne, they're building so much wider and much more land-consuming. So what does the department choose? Well, if the Council of State thinks, then the truth has to be somewhere in the middle. Then it would probably be NOK 1500 per tonne of CO2. I'm looking at the Council of State. Maybe I'm wrong? Then I ask him to correct this to what is factually correct. In Sweden, at least the carbon price is set at NOK 7 000 per tonne. 7 000 kr per tonne! That's a huge difference. In Finland, the carbon price of such expansions is also much higher than ours. The priced impacts of the social economy are the main factors in the assessment when new developments are to be undertaken. That means that the factors that I've been dealing with here will mean enormously for the outcome of a project. And that's what's coming out in the big guy's case papers, our basis for right decisions. Experience has shown that non-priced impacts are best used to select concepts within a project. They are rarely so important that they can decide a yes or no to a project. The other existential threat facing humanity, alongside the climate turmoil, is the loss of natural diversity and the degradation of nature and habitats. The International Natural Panel points out that land management errors are the main cause of threats to some one million species. Therefore, spatial considerations should really start counting in the assessment of concepts and alternatives in a particular corridor, but it's almost absent. We almost never discuss this in the hall. I have more examples to come with, and I've taken them up every time. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten far in this, and NTP is very weak when it comes to taking important steps here. It comes a little bit into it, starts to smell a little bit, but it's too small and too few strong grips. We have to go in a direction of area neutrality, in the same way that climate neutrality. We need to collect land budgets and land accounts in all administrative areas, just as climate budgets and climate accounts do. In conclusion, to re-examine the specific questions that I hope the Council of State will answer, and which the President also referred to: What are the assessments behind the government's choice of a carbon price of NOK 1500? Will the State Council review the models of socio-economic benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4771	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important debate. I think that socio-economic analysis is an important part. They're not everything, but they give us very useful information. I shall answer as conscientiously as possible the questions raised here by the representative Arne Nävra. I want to say yes, there is a policy in this, but it has been important for me to base the work done by the professionals here. I also think we're on it. Nevertheless, we have to admit that the type of analysis is not done in a vacuum. But e.g. in the kind of questions that have been asked here, I have followed the professional recommendations that have been made, and I think that is good. I also think it would be good that we follow under varying governments. But I'm going to answer the important questions Arne Nävra raises here. Socio-economic analyses form an important part of the decision-making framework when decisions are taken on investments and the launch of projects in the transport sector. The government emphasises the highest possible return of resources to the community and the most effective and appropriate solution to challenges. Then socio-economic analyses with important knowledge contribute, and it provides decision-makers with a systematic and comparable basis for the decisions to be taken. The socio-economic analyses reveal the consequences of different options for groups that they are indebted to and for society otherwise. The analyses include both pricing and non-priced effects. Key cost elements of socio-economic analyses are investment costs and change operating and maintenance costs in addition to external effects, such as: the significance of the project for climate and the environment. This is where the carbon price comes into the socio-economic analysis. Important benefits include change in travel and waiting time, punctuality and increased road safety. And that's where the value of travel time savings comes in. It is true that significant travel time savings in isolation will ensure that a project has good profitability, while a high CO 2 price in isolation will lower the cost of measures leading to increased emissions. In June 2020, the Ministry of Transport received a letter from our transport companies requesting a recommendation from the Department for the selection of CO 2 price path for use in NTP 2022-2033. The background to the agency's contact with the department and asked for a recommendation was that the companies did not get any information on which path should be used in the NTP calculations. The companies presented three alternative paths in the letter. These were, in short, an alternative with an initial price of NOK 2000 per tonne of CO 2 in 2020, an alternative with an initial price of NOK 1000 per tonne and a third alternative where it was argued that the professional uncertainty around what is correct pricing was that the price should be put in the middle of a place, i.e. NOK 1500 per tonne. For all three options, the cost is adjusted annually by the discount rate. The Ministry of Transport replied in a letter dated 6 July 2020. This letter provides the basis for the ministry's recommendation. In short, the ministry pointed to the following: The large selection of CO 2 price paths that lead from a range of sources, means that it is not right to determine which CO 2 price path should be used. There are professional arguments for many different paths, and there are advantages and disadvantages of different paths. Because of the short time we had to start working on new impact calculations, the ministry did not have the opportunity to make a professional assessment of which carbon pricing businesses should benefit. For most NTP projects evaluated by socio-economic analyses, the carbon price level is likely to have little effect on profitability compared to other effects. This means that the choice of the carbon price path is not decisive. However, there may be some exceptions, such as: for freight transfer project. The Ministry stated in its explanatory memorandum that it is entirely decisive that transport companies use the same CO 2 price path so that the results of the impact calculations are as comparable as possible. For this reason, we asked that the companies use the middle track, i.e. starting at 1500 kr per tonne of CO 2 equivalent in 2020. In addition, we requested that the enterprises carry out screening analyses with a starting point in 2020 of approximately 500 and 2500 kr per tonne of CO 2 equivalent for projects where the choice of CO 2 price path is expected to be high or where the main objective of the action is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the light of DFØ’s guidance document in the socio-economic analysis of 2018, it is recommended to analyse the carbon price needed for the project to be profitable, given that everything else remains unchanged, in the event that an action explicitly aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A break-even analysis should also be carried out for projects with climate as their main objective or as their main basis. The government is now working to establish common guidelines for cross-sectoral carbon price trajectories. Such guidelines will also apply to the transport sector when they are established. So here's a development work. When determining the value of travel time savings, one is based on a time-estimated study carried out by the Transport Economic Institute, TØI, on a mission from the transport companies in 2018 to 2019. Values are relatively new, so there are no plans for updating the time values in 2021. In the evaluation carried out by TØI, there was a reference group consisting of international experts in the field, including quality work. Work on time values in Norway is highly respected internationally, and there are several international articles based on time value work in Norway. The fact that the time values for Norway are slightly higher than for Sweden is due to different levels of pay in the two countries. Value of the time value is divided into two. For work trips, the time values are based on average wages in Norway. For the other journeys, the value is based on peer-to-peer analysis, which is a recognised method of screening. Time values for groups of goods transported were established between 2018 and 2019. Previously it was only with the time costs for carrying out the goods. Now the time value of the goods being transported is also included. In the context of the national transport plan, transport operators, in cooperation, have made considerable efforts to improve the basis and ensure consistency in the socio-economic analyses across the transport sectors. The methodology used and the model tool used by transport operators are internationally recognised and the enterprises have developed methodological manuals that are regularly updated. Since socio-economic analyses are a key element of the decision-making framework, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Transport will continue to develop analytical methods and input from there and will regularly assess the need to adjust key commitments. To sum up, I've done well what led to the carbon price selection associated with NTP. It was actually based on the recordings from our professional etats. What was important to us was that they got a common price. They did so in cooperation without the ministry making an overall assessment. It was not time for the summer of 2020. So we want to follow up the carbon price with our own assessment and get it in common for different sectors. That's what I mean. Then it is also natural to look at our neighboring countries and assessments there. The time-saving part is also a work that has been done quite recently and that has been followed up. In this particular area, we see some leads that give us an indication that there is also a reason to be politically vigilant, but I have therefore based the professional assessments and have not made any political governance over them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4838	I thank the Council of State for both comments and answers, and in particular I thought it was interesting to hear the answer and the explanations about the carbon price. It was also a strange answer, because the Council of State says that he has not had time to assess the carbon price professionally. It's strange, when we're going to adopt or present a Bible for Norwegian transport policy for 12 years, and when we've been served the climate plan earlier in the year, the climate announcement, which sets out a huge exclamation mark on which it goes, that not one of our most important tools, which is the national transport plan, where transport accounts for one third of our emissions, is able to include a proper, professional assessment of carbon emissions in the development process. It has been said quite strongly by a Council of State, and I must really regret that it is so thinly argued. I also think it is nice that the initiative came from the budgets. They're asking for a carbon price. I would actually believe and hope that it was political leadership, the ministry, who made the request to their offices to make any proposals. So then I guess my assessment of the procedure was not so far from the truth. It's said by the Council of State that the carbon price doesn't mean that much. It's also very strange, when we know how much emissions come, among other things. from excavating ants, and not least from using all input factors in extensions — tunnels, concrete, all of this. I guess it wouldn't have been that different if we had put on a Swedish line of 7,000 kroner per tonne, if it didn't mean so much. I have also not heard what assessments the Finnish and Swedish Councils have of the Finnish and Swedish assessments of the carbon price. It is not long since I had contact with the head of the Swedish Transport Committee, and he confirmed at least that it was 7 000 kroner. In the case of the time factor, the Council of State refers to TØI. TØI is so numerous, and they have also produced a large, heavy international article on the differences between Sweden, Norway and Finland on this. I doubt whether it's just the difference in pay that's included in these models, and that it's the big difference in the value of time in the models. And finally, why doesn't the Council of State comment on the fact that the value of life lost is dropped from 2014 to 2018 in the manual? Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4853	I found some of the questions raised here by the representative Arne Nävra is a little unnatural, given the division of labour we have in the transport sector. Well, that's the way we have professional ethics. We have it in all areas – we have it on the coast, we have it on the air, we have it on the road, we have it on the road. These are the professional analyses that we're building around a whole series of things. What was a difference between this national transport plan and the previous one is that in the past, the four ETAs have gathered around a holistic work that they have done to the department, and then the ministry has made more or less adjustments. This time it was the ministry that was responsible for creating the sanity chained to the NTP. Who is going to base these socio-economic analyses? Well, they're the professionals, and they're the ones who bring it. So, the easiest thing for us would be if the etats were some of what they were going to do. But precisely because they were not some of the professional basis, they took it to the ministry – in a clean and orderly way. NTP received an order from eta already early in 2020. Then I asked for a new assessment that would be more a holistic assessment, not just of the socio-economic analyses. Therefore, there was a need to ask questions about what was at stake, and therefore, it was important that what was really urgent, so that they could order me already in October 2020. Now we're doing a work on the very problem of carbon prices that Arne Növra raises. I think that's also wise, and it shouldn't just be about the transport sector. But precisely to that kind of question we use the tradesmen, and I also thought it was safe that I as a politician don't go in and override it, and then get an answer and a benefit from using it politically. That our professionals are doing this, I think I'm good. But I can also say that there are several parameters that we see that give us what we might call a little bit of a strange expression, for example. in relation to urban development projects which generate such a large value. The Bjørvika project was in its time one of the most socio-economic-vulanable investments made in Oslo, but it is of great importance to get that type of project. We actually have the same kind of project both in the Oslo region and in the Trondheim region that also receives that kind of negative leadership, and it also applies, for example, to new airports in Bodø.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4868	Societal economic models are both fun and difficult, and it's probably a little related to the fact that this isn't always an exact science. They have their weaknesses, some of the models we use in the transport sector, and that requires that we exercise political discretion when we are to prioritise between the projects. We cannot, in my view, use socio-economic/transport economic analysis uncritically unless we have quite similar projects to compare. I see that we need to keep improving these models, and I feel that it is a desire of the professional community, but also of us who are going to be in these priority discussions, that the better the socio-economic models are, the better equipped we will be to actually evaluate the projects. Some factors are quantifiable and possible to measure. The time factor, which has been mentioned here, is one that is relatively concrete. If you save x the number of minutes on building a road or a route and multiply it up with those who use this distance, you'll get answers to what you save on time in such a project. Similarly, a socio-economic cost or any savings related to reduced accidents can be taken into account. There are some examples of this that are useful for us to include in our assessments. At the same time, there are some unpriced consequences that make this not as exact as it sounds. I've spent a few years of my life studying finance, and one of the things I learned there was that economic models basically have their weaknesses and limitations. What you get out is very dependent on what you put into the model. If you're able to evaluate what you put into a model, you're able to evaluate what comes out at the other end. Looking at some of the projects being carried out in Norway in the transport sector, it is that we achieve some dynamic effects by building up a region, for example, which is not as easy to calculate on a purely economic basis, because there are some added values that will appear perhaps in a few years after the project is completed. So until that interpellant took up the carbon price: in my opinion, it is a somewhat difficult matter. One thing is to determine the carbon price itself, and I understand that the problem is on the table, because it is not so easy to find the exact answer to that. One is the emissions that must be in the installation phase, and there we have a job to do. Now the government has also arranged for us to have fossil-free sites, and I think that is good. It's both about the machines that are used to build a project, and also about the material we make. It is about the overall climate impact of such a construction phase. It's hard to go faster than technological progress is going, so we're actually able to measure the improvements there. So it's the second part of it, that goes more on what's going to use that infrastructure, and the emissions from it. Many of the projects currently in the national transport plan will be completed in five or ten years. What has technological development been like in that period? And how are we going to be able to measure and price carbon emissions in this perspective when we don't know the technological situation when we get to the completed project? I think we have to take into account that we have to use a great deal of discretion in relation to that type of model, because we have to assume some assumptions about what the world looks like in five or ten years' time to get a fairly correct definition. I also think it has been important, part of the job that is done, and that goes on, correctly used with a degree of discretion, to use such models to continuously improve the projects. In socio-economic models, there is a potential for improvement. One thing to do is to bring down costs and thus increase net benefits, the other is to look at the actual benefits of the project and for example. reduce travel time. I think it is important to be able to do a good enough job for our transport modes to continuously improve the projects. There is still a job to do in constantly improving the models and ensuring that we have the best decision-making basis possible. I think we'll never get there that we don't have to use a great deal of discretion when we evaluate these projects and make our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4889	I must say that I admire my colleague Arne Nävra who here raises such an exciting debate on an exciting matter, and it is impressive to see how capable SV and Nävra are in camouflaging their resistance to cars and hatred for new, fine, safe motorways into such a little bit of fun proposals and debates. The representative of SV must be commended for this. By and large, I would say that today's models work well. But if you're going to disagree with something and point out some weaknesses in the socio-economic models that Nävra's concerned about, I'm going to have a completely opposite approach to what Nävra has. The effect of building new, safe and secure four-field motorways — the economic growth, the dynamics of linking regions, increasing housing, expanding the housing and labour market region, increasing employment and increasing industrial investment — I would rather say that the emphasis is too low and absolutely not too high, as SV tries to create an impression. And most importantly, the personal irritation you get by sitting in line, how much money disappears and how many annual jobs are lost when you sit in stationary queues – is it weighted high enough? There's a model there that shows some kind of average wage cost, but is it really weighted high enough? I'll put a question mark on that. Instead of being weighted too high, it might be weighted too low. I do not fully understand the focus of SV in that it is too high to build new, safe motorways, and that link to a life and accident. The facts show that, fortunately, there are no serious accidents, and hardly fatal accidents, on the safe new, safe and fine highways we are building. I don't fully understand the logic of SV's reasoning, because you get just the effect SV wants to focus on, and we're all concerned with, achieving the zero vision. We get it by building new, safe and secure four-field highways. So until the climate debate – the Helge place was a little bit into it – and the carbon footprint and climate footprint: I dare say that the current NTP, which has been adopted by the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, weighs climate in a good way. I'm going to assume that the upcoming NTP will also weigh the climate in a good way. That's exactly why there's going to be a lot of wood in Mjøsbrua, which is going to be built now, a new E6 four-field motorway across Mjøsa. Had we not had lead in the NTP on the use of materials that give the least CO2 pressure possible, there would probably have been only concrete on the bridges, for example. But we see that the Road Service uses three, and we see that New Roads use three, precisely because of it. that we have given political leadership on a minimum CO2 footprint.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4912	First, I have to be allowed to thank the representative Arne Nävra for addressing this question, because it is not easy to understand all of these models that are used. I have learned a lot now, in this debate, in this change of words between the Council of State and the representative of Nävra, and it is clear that we need even more expertise in this area. Over my years in the Transport Committee, we have asked for a little different places. We have received good reviews of both TØI and Møreforsking, and I have also been to Nye Veier and received a good introduction in how they calculate and not least prioritise between projects. Then there are many factors that naturally determine whether a project is socio-economically profitable or not. As case rapporteur for the E6 case between Ulsberg and Melhus, I was at least a bit familiar with why New Veier was able to prioritize it so much higher than what the State Road Administration actually had as a starting point when they had that project. I studied many of these parameters that were inserted into these models, and the most important one was probably clearly the time value. That was how fast you could drive between Ulsberg and Melhus, a distance of approx. 8 miles, how much there was a socio-economic increase in the value of that utility drive there. In particular, there was a lot of freight, a lot of it, 25 pst. of all the cars that drove on that route were freight transport. That's why the value gets so much higher when you can increase the speed by approx. 20 km/h at average speed. So you might be able to describe it that easily. It was at least the most important factor. So there were many other factors as well, for example. to avoid building as much tunnel as originally planned – a wish, really, from the municipalities along this route. You'd rather set out today, because of course it was a little cheaper, but also in view of the job and the climate challenges you have in tunneling. At the same time, of course, other simplifications were also made. It was e.g. a municipality that was strongly opposed to the removal of a run-off, but there was a lot of money to save on it, and it was really socio-economically right because the parallel road was quite useful for the local drive. That's how we can review these analyses, because they're the ones used, but it's educationally quite difficult to carry this out so that we understand them. We in the Transport Committee, which is doing this quite often, may well begin to see some light in the tunnel, to say it this way, but I understand that it is challenging to understand it for the majority of the population. That's why it's important, as the Council of State says, that we trust the competences that exist in these agencies. I think they're good at being more open, but they're still missing something more on being explaining in a good, common language, and on speaking, so that we can all get even more information from there. So the interpellation is good, in terms of bringing these things forward and getting them even more understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4925	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. In terms of socio-economic analysis, everything is related to everything, and models change with the needs of society and with increased knowledge. We are in the process of examining and consulting the national transport plan. There is no doubt that socio-economic analyses need political leadership. What's important to us now? It's about the valuation of nature, and what actually happens to our nature. That is the need for cultivated land. It is cooling, reduced travel time and closed roads. What does that mean for our business? And climate – we have a completely separate climate plan, and a third of the emissions come from transport. In fact, a combined business sector is saying that we need to increase the requirements of tenders for a climate-friendly site in the development. Another analysis and requirement must be road safety and the value of a life and the loss of a life. The transport area must also be predictable for the entrepreneurial sector. It is necessary to calculate the value of more than the cheapest and fastest possible construction of the road. Transport must provide innovation and competence and secure, good, Norwegian jobs. The work on NTP gets exciting and challenges us all on all of this. When we talk to research environments in the transport committee, we have a good understanding that we need increased funding for research also in transport. There is something quite different in our field of transport than there are in many other important areas, such as: health. We need more knowledge, and we need more pilot projects to learn more from how we build both the road and the track. There is also a significant potential in international cooperation on both methods and innovation. As I said, we have recently adopted a climate plan, and it must also be guided by how we rig our models. I have expectations that it will be given political guidance to both New Roads, the State Road Service and the Bane NOR on how we imagine the future to be, and what is important to us, and that it will also be reflected in the models being created.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4938	The world is facing two existential man-made crises. There is a loss of natural diversity and dangerous, man-made climate change. The Climate Change Panel’s Special Report on Climate Change and Land Area states that this is the way we use land, which is operating. That means that the transport sector is incredibly important, both when we talk about climate policy, and when we talk about loss of natural diversity. The transport sector is important to all of us. I think everyone is happy to get off the farm quickly and not stand in line. But it's not an existential problem if I get a little annoyed when I stand and bite in traffic somewhere. But it's an existential problem, and I hope it's also for the Christian People's Party, which has the Council of States, about our calculation methods for what we're doing now, leading us even further from the goal. It looks like that. When you're pricing the things that are inalienable, so low in these models, you're going to be in trouble. I hear the council say that one has to listen to professional advice etc., but then the other is up here saying that it is a great deal of discretion. I haven't studied economics in very many years, but I've looked at some of those models, and that's a lot of sense. There's a lot of assumptions, and part of this is politics. Now, let's look at the models, so that the grips we're now doing in the future, actually make us reduce the climate pressure, that we're reducing the natural image, and that it gets a greater value set up against all of these other important goals that are a little bit easier and more everyday to take on, because we see the result of this right now? But it can make us make big misinvestments. I did not get a good explanation as to how it might be that the Swedes set a CO 2 price of NOK 7 000, when Norway now has a CO 2 price, a kind of agreed solution, of NOK 1500. There was not at all any technical justification for what the Council of State gave. It may well mean that the Swedish have a policy where they actually weigh the climate higher than what we do in Norway. In that case, it is an important recognition that I believe the Council of State should give little thought to. The Council of State said in its introduction that it would probably have little weight except for goods. Yes, I live in the state that I still choose to call Hedmark, and I could take with Uppland as well. With the Inland we have an incredible amount of railway in this country. Along E6 and along rv. 3 I now carry so much goods on the trailer that I dare not drive on these roads any longer. People living along the road are being plagued. There are a lot of goods that could be moved over to the railway, if we had made a national plan for goods on the track, got power on the Rørosbahnen and the Solørbahnen, put terminals on Kongswinger and made repairs on the Kongswingerbahnen as well. Then we could have moved a lot, but the CO2 price for this makes the gains we get by moving this amount of goods so low that it's hard to get it. Then we can keep talking about more goods on the track, more goods on the track, more goods on the track – I've been here for 24 years. We've been talking about it for 24 years. It hasn't gotten any better. It might be these models that we're looking for, which means that we end up with results that are not sustainable in the long term. That's what we're talking about, whether we're talking about road or at least railway. We are talking about solutions from the perspective of 100-200 years, which will be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in that perspective, which will be able to improve road safety and make it habitable in many places, which will make it possible for those who have to use the road and which will allow us to have a change that will enable those who need to drive a car to do so because greenhouse gas emissions are clearly reduced in other areas. So that's possible. It is possible to appreciate both climate and nature more than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4960	I see that the representative of the Progress Party, Johnsen, has left the Chamber, but I still have to send him a little greeting. This is how, just as Andersen's representative says, we have two existing threats hanging over us, and the transport sector plays a crucial role for both. Then you can focus on it or not. The progress batch does not place any emphasis on it at all. For the Progress Party, it's velocity, 110 km/h, which is an existential question, so you say what you say from the Progress Party. I'll put a dot there for them, because they're not there anymore. The Council of State makes a great deal of reference to the subjectates. I think that's a little passive, to say it like that. If there is someone who should have grasped the development of the transport sector, it is clear that it is political leadership in the ministry, and it is the government that is staggering that course. It's not supposed to be the scene. They have to listen to the trade unions, they have to make recordings, but if you want to go in a green direction now, which is absolutely crucial – it is the political leadership that is to take those steps, set the lead. I am very sorry to hear that the Council of State has a slightly passive attitude to this, but I am very pleased that the Council of State also informs me that he will take care of it in the future. I'm very happy to hear that, so I look a little bit open. It may not be as long as we have left of the sitting government, but he gets to work hard at the time he has left, and we'll see who comes in the chair for the fall. Then there's the last chance the Council of State has to answer out the question I've had to him. I've set it two or three times, I think. One of them traveled in so far as the representative Andersen, about the carbon price in Sweden, about why it was so high there, why they could land on it. What I have also asked questions about is why the price of life was changed in the manual of the State Road Administration. The price, the appreciation, of lost lives has fallen. Why? I'm sure the Council of State is very concerned about that. The council has said it so many times, and I am absolutely sure that he believes that road safety is very important. Traffic safety is important. As far as road safety is concerned, the safety of the modes of transport is clear that no one is turning the rail on it. Then maybe the model would turn out a concept that would say, that's the railway we're going to have in that corridor. So it's a parameter that would look different than many of the conclusions we end up with in our policy. As I say, it's okay to think the corridor, but you don't have to have tunnel vision in that corridor. Then I say a thousand thanks for the debate. It was nice to hear that many appreciated it. That's what I really appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4972	I want to start by thanking Arne Nävra for raising this debate. That's what I think is important. I'm also going to answer some of the questions that he raised here. But I would like to say that, with the setting of guidelines for the carbon price path, it was something of the news I came today – we are working on. We're working on it across the board, not just in the transport sector, but as a whole. But it's a professionally based work. Of course, we will look at Sweden, look at that kind of assessment, but it is a professional assessment that comes to that. That means I'm right. But what is important is that we, as politicians, do not abdicate. Some of the first thing I did when I came in – then all the etats had just made NTP recordings based on socio-economic benefits – was to say that I want a more holistic assessment, where socio-economic benefits are part of it, but it should be a greater health. And it's important that we don't abdicate politically. But I still think that – call it the tool socio-economic benefit, we have to think about that before we start playing politics, because then we devalue it in reality. But we don't just have to look at it. The representative Nävra has asked me several times the question: why have we taken down the value of life? I have no answer to that. It didn't happen in my time, but I don't think it's been a political process when it comes to it. But I'm going to get that answer after this debate, and I'm going to give you an explanation about it, also because I'm curious about it myself. But we have to see the health here. I want to say – there are several people who have been involved, including the representative Helge Orten – that there are some changes. For example, in the case of: The security perspective is the joyous figure: when 93 died in traffic in 2020, it is lower than ever. I sincerely hope that it is not just a corona effect. But also technology gives us the opportunity to do an even better job here. Then there are some assessments that also form the basis. Take the K5 project west. When building the road, should one then wait with the path, which has a lower socio-economic analysis? No, it would be wise to do both parts at the same time, because it's more profitable to do it. Then it's important that we look a little more than just socio-economic analyses. When it comes to legislation, I am involved in a debate, but I still think that the professional assessments have to be based.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4983	So the debate is on case No. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-20.ana.ud185e4997	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? So it hasn't happened, the meeting's cancelled.
