ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e44	On Monday, the Grand Duchy received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Guri Melby and Monica Mæland and Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Lene Vågslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e53	My question goes to the Minister of Justice. Right went to the option twice on better preparedness, but in the last two years we have a number of examples of failure. Together, the Right-wing Government has had seven ministers responsible for preparedness, a period of time with their own Minister of Emergency Response and a Minister of Public Health. A response element was to be established at the Prime Minister's office, which was phased out shortly. The government, in its time, had major challenges and problems in managing object protection, and we are now in a situation where the government has to regret the failure to deal with security laws associated with the Bergen Engines case. So we've got a corona report, which says not only that right will have it, that one here has passed, but also indicates that there is a serious failure in preparedness. Fortunately, we have done better than very many other countries. These include: Thank you for being a trust society with a strong public health system and not least a tripartite collaboration – not necessarily because preparedness before the pandemic was good enough. The Korona report shows a lack of coordination and a lack of health responsibility. Nine years ago, the Gjørv Commission said the same thing. In other words, these interoperability and coordination challenges in preparedness have been well known to the government. My question is therefore whether the Minister of Justice will acknowledge that it has not been properly followed up by the government, despite the fact that the Minister of Justice's own party, Right, went to the elections on standby in both 2013 and 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e64	I can assure the representative – and I mean that in the depths of my heart – that we in this country have never been better prepared than what we have today. We've never been better prepared both for the events that we know can come, and the events that we don't know can come. It's absolutely right that we've had a lot of events in recent years. It is quite wrong that the main conclusion of the Gjørv Commission and the Corona Commission was the same. The main conclusion of the Corona Commission was that the government has managed the Corona situation well overall. It wasn't the title when it was about the Yurv Commission. We've had events related to cruise ships, MS "Viking Sky", we've had Gerdrum this winter, with many lives lost, and we've had several digital attacks. We've met a lot of situations at all, and because, not least, we've built up a basic preparedness that's very good, we've handled it well. We have more people, we have better capacities, we practice more, we have a new law, we have features that make us work together better than before, so my assessment is that this has been top priority of all the Justice Ministers who have been sitting in this period. But then it's like ready that you never finish. We can never put two lines below and say that now we're in the goal. This is an ongoing work. We have to keep improving, we have to keep practicing, and we have to be constantly prepared for things we can't know. That's why we said last year when we got a coronary apathy, that we're going to make mistakes, we're going to do things we haven't done before, and we need this to be evaluated. That's why we put down a Korona Commission very early, which now, in the middle of the coronary apathy, has actually come up with its first report. I can promise that we will read it carefully. We're going to learn from it, and we're going to follow the advice we get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e75	I believe it is important that the Council of State read that report carefully, for the Korona Commission report is clear that we were not banned. The Commission found that the government had not taken care to update the contingency plans since 2014. We lack intensive capacity and equipment. The Government Party has voted in favour of a proposal for a national plan for the protection of infectious diseases and pandemics before the pandemic and has voted against a proposal for a total emergency commission. Never better order, says the Council of State. Nevertheless, one of the conclusions of the Corona report is that one was not good enough foreordained. My question is, therefore, about the Council of State, after the serious criticism of the Korona Commission, that it was nevertheless right not to update the pandemic plan, that it was right to vote against a total emergency commission, and that it was right to say no to a new national protection plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e82	We had a pandemic plan, and we had practice on pandemics. It is apparent from the report of the Corona Commission. We had revised the infectious disease law. We did that in 2019. We had established a national contingency plan for outbreaks of serious infectious diseases. We had set up a mandate for the Emergency Response Committee on Biological Events, and the Health Directorate had provided a basis for a new health emergency law. There has been a lot of work, and it has been good work. But what we saw was something we were not prepared for. We were prepared for a pandemic, but not a pandemic that kind of happened the way we've seen it now, both in Norway and in the rest of the world. The Korona Commission calls it a paradigm shift, which neither we nor the rest of Western Europe were prepared for. Could we be better prepared? Yes, we could, but have we worked to prepare? Have we been working on increasing preparedness? We've been doing that every year for eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e87	There will be follow-up questions – first Lene Wagslid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e92	I am not getting an answer to what I am asking for. When we refer to DSB's report, he also refers to the scenarios, that for example. the need for equipment and intensive capacity should have been planned by the government. That's what it said. We never have time to improve preparedness. But what kind of action will the government take now, especially to remedy the lack of responsibility for the management of coordination? Because although the conclusions of different reports are not the same, there is no doubt. The challenges of coordination and cooperation have been identified by the government for more than nine years. Nevertheless, there is now a point that remains a challenge – a government that opted for preparedness. So what will the Council of State actually do now to make sure that we get the order of the lease tied both to coordination and to cooperate in preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e99	You can read this report in many ways, and I understand that I and the representative will necessarily do differently. But it's not like we don't have coordination mechanisms. It's not that we didn't coordinate. We did that every day all day, and we still do. That's how we have a new planing system in place. We have a coordination directive. We have a crisis council, and we have a preparedness for the crisis. The Prime Minister established a corona selection in the government that quickly met, often. So we have coordination mechanisms. Can we get better? Yes, we can always, but saying that the world has not changed since 2013, with all due respect, is fundamental wrong. A lot has changed, and there has been a fantastic job done by an incredible number of people in the state, in the municipalities, in the counties. You've tried every day in this pandemic, and we still do, to make the job the best possible. Then we always have to learn from situations like this and constantly improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e104	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e109	When Prime Minister Erna Solberg said we had a plan for a pandemic, but not for this, it was alarming. Today, the Minister of Justice repeats the same words from the President of the Grand Duchy. For several years, trade union directorates have had pandemics as one of the most likely events with major consequences. The Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB's scenario for pandemic, showed that a pandemic could give far more infected, more dead and more hospital facilities than we've had with covid-19, fortunately, but it wasn't the pandemic the government had a plan for. Does this mean that the government prepared Norway for a pandemic that was less serious than the technical directorates warned against?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e119	It's like the pandemic we were preparing for was a flu-like disease. The pandemic we've been given is a virus that infects faster and is more serious – a paradigm shift calls it the Corona Commission. We had prepared, but not for the reality that happened to us. And in many ways we can get criticism that reality overcame imagination. It hit us, it hit the whole world. Then we're very happy that we had systems that made us quickly able to put action in many different areas, because this pandemic hit all parts of our society. There's no one who's unaffected by this. I repeat, we've never been better prepared, but we're going to be able to do an even better job all the time. That's our job now under the pandemic, in the learning of the pandemic, and not least in the preparation of the events we know both can happen and can't happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e128	Martin Henriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e133	I feel that the government has little humility about seeing the mistakes they have made themselves. The conclusion of the Korona Commission is not, as the Minister of Justice has now said, on a general basis that the government has handled it well. It's about the period after the pandemic came to the country. In fact, the Corona Commission concludes with serious work failure before the pandemic came to Norway. It's a tough sentence on Erna Solberg's work on standby. The failure is, among other things, a failure. in that the pandemic contingency plan had not been up-to-date since 2014, that it was known that it would be very likely that it would be difficult to obtain, but not repaired, infectious disease protection equipment. It was a warning against low intensive capacity — it was not increased. And the Corona Commission points out that the Prime Minister did not ensure coordination of the actors in the first phase of the pandemic. What were the reasons for choosing not to update the pandemic contingency plan, not to grips with increased preparedness stock for infectious equipment, or to increase intensive capacity before the possible pandemic DSB had warned against came to the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e140	I've already responded to this. We have strengthened preparedness in all areas. Then I am primarily responding to the justice and preparedness sector, as the representative Henriksen of course knows. I can list what we've done there. We had a pandemic plan. We had practiced pandemics, but not a disease like what we've seen come. It's come as a surprise to us, but it's come as a surprise to everyone. No later than today, we see pictures from India that are quite cruel. We've come out lucky. It's not just that we have trust between people, it's also because we're prepared, that we have systems, that we have people in all sectors that have been around the clock for over a year now, and that have done a great job. So we were prepared, but we weren't well enough prepared. We have repeated that, and the Prime Minister has repeated that. And I actually don't understand that you're asking for a lack of humility. Is that something we're humiliating to, and as we've said from day one, it's that we're going to do wrong, and we have to learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e147	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e152	This is a spectacular lack of recognition, and I think it's part of the government's communication strategy to call this a "paradigm shift" and talk about it as much as possible after 12 March and as much as possible about what the Corona Commission says about a lack of preparedness before 12 March. Infective equipment storage did not exist. It was not made of any other health material either. The intensive capacity was incredibly weak. It is not that it has not been pointed out by the opposition. At least 15 proposals for better preparedness have been made by the Central Party during the last seven years. Then the Right has alternately smiled overwhelmingly and sharply criticized us for exaggerating. But the Corona Commission is in fact critical of the preparedness for the pandemic. One of the proposals put forward by the Centre Party is on the subject of a new Total Emergency Commission. 20 years have passed since Norway last had a thorough review of all parts of society’s preparedness. It has voted against every crossroads. Will the Right now look with open eyes at a total emergency commission?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e161	It is not the government that has called this a ‘paradigm shift’. That's what the Corona Commission has done. Then I realize that you're asking for humility, but then you just haven't listened – or would listen – to what we've been saying for over a year now: we're going to make mistakes, we're a place we've never been before, this has hit us and the rest of the world. But if the representative disagrees with the fact that this was a pandemic that is degenerate and has a degenerate and still does it in a way that the representative saw, then we are simply of different reality. We're there that we have a pandemic that has changed, a virus that has mutated, and that has many different variants, and we have to prepare it all the time. In the case of a total preparedness commission, as the Central Party has proposed, we have not rejected it, but we have rejected the time. Now we're in a pandemic. Now we're using all of our cancers on it. Then we've put down a coronary commission. They must continue their work. So it's about how we use the cancers here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e170	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e175	I have not asked the government to be humble – I did not use the word at all in my post. I'm just saying that there's an eye-catching lack of recognition of that part of the Corona Commission's report that's about the preparedness before the pandemic. There were no stand-bys of infectious and health equipment. It's a fact. So, of course, the Commission says it's a paradigm shift -- we all know that. But the government's communication strategy is that they'll just talk about it and not talk about preparedness before. Then I have to say when the Council of State says that the Right has not rejected a Total Emergency Commission, that yes, that has actually done so. They've voted it down time after time, despite the fact that it's now 20 years since the last time we went through the whole community's preparedness. The right has joined the Center Party, made a little fool of us to promote such a case. Was it perhaps because it was the Central Party that promoted the proposal, that the Right and the Government did not find reason to support such an important proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e182	With all due respect, I don't have the members of the Center Party, I've answered the questions that the Center Party has had. I think I have answered both in writing and orally about a total emergency commission. Then I just have to repeat: we haven't rejected it, but we have rejected the timing for it. It's not like these commissions live in a vacuum for themselves. They require a device around them. So the same people who now deal with a crisis, the same people who provide a Corona Commission, want the Center Party to now use forces on a total emergency commission. That's what we've rejected. We've said that we have to do things in the right order. I'm very busy looking at vulnerabilities in society. I'm very busy learning. I'm very busy getting better. But we have to do things in the right order. That is why we have said, when the question has been raised this year, that now we need to deal with the crisis. Then we've put down a commission, which is doing a very thorough job. They have gone through 25 000 pages of documents, I think, in addition to all the conversations, interviews and recordings they have received. So things just have to be done in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e189	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e195	The Government insists that there have been updated plans and that there have been exercises for crisis management of a pandemic, but the Corona Commission notes that the national contingency plans for pandemic have not been updated since 2014. I would like to inform the Council of State that Korona was not an unknown virus. They may have prepared themselves for a flu pandemic, but we had had the SARS epidemic with similar serious consequences for those who were hit at that time. In DSB’s plans, there were far more serious scenarios than what the government had in its unupdated plans. Does the council think that it had been practiced, that the plans had been updated, and that you were well enough prepared for a pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e202	Now the representative is trying to put words in my mouth. I said, we had a pandemic plan. I said we had practice. I didn't say it was up to date. I've never claimed that. We have also recognised that there were deficiencies in the preparation and that there was a lack of infectious disease protection equipment. That is why we quickly put in place purchasing systems, and we build up stock. So I've answered what I've been asked about. There's a pandemic plan. There are exercises, but not to the extent and not with the tools that we put in. We are criticised for that. It's a criticism I'm serious about. We didn't practice shutting down the Norwegian community. I don't think any of us would have imagined that it could happen. A pandemic exercise was also planned in 2009, following the swine flu. Nor was it held, because the flu pandemic itself – which you did not actually get at the time, but which you prepared for – was considered a good enough exercise. So there was a plan. That wasn't good enough. The preparations were not good enough, and we need to get better. But when the pandemic occurred, we were able to turn around. We have fewer dead and sick people than other countries – fortunately for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e209	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e214	Voting Iran into the UN Commission for the Protection of Women's Rights is like giving a firefighter the job as a fire director, said director of UN Watch, Hillel Neuer. And he said it was absurd and morally reprehensible. On April 22, what the United Nations Economic and Social Council did, and 4 out of 15 Western countries thought it was a good idea – and maybe Norway too. Who knows – at least we didn't elected people in this room. Iran is a religious dictatorship in which women are stoned to death for adultery, where women are imprisoned for not going with hijab, where criminal methods such as pissing, stoning, hanging, amputation of hands and feet, torture and rape are part of the criminal system, where child marriages can be concluded from 13 years of age, where forced marriages are accepted and girls are married by guardians, and where men do not handcuffs on women – in line with Sharia, Islam’s law. At the World Economic Forum Index on Gender Equality, Iran is ranked number one. 139 of 142. Norway has repeatedly refused to indicate what we have voted for in choosing countries as central positions in the United Nations. The U.D. has indicated the United Nations procedures. Well, we've voted for this, our credibility isn't worth much. Then we've lost our moral compass. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has previously argued that Norway will make clear to Iran what we think about the treatment of women in the country, and she has added: and what we expect from them. It's the story of the mouse that roared. Norway’s vote is not about procedures. It's a signal – a signal to oppressed women everywhere else in the world. In the past, the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not want to tell me what Norway voted on 22 April, so let me rephrase the question: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think Iran is suitable and has earned the right to sit in the United Nations Commission for the Protection of Women's Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e231	As I replied to the representative Tybring-Gjedde in the debate we had last Thursday, Norway does not state its vote – in line with the UN procedural rules. There have been practices under varying governments, and that is because the United Nations system is designed not to indicate where to vote and what to vote for. It also means that we do not give notice of what we do not vote on, although of course it can occasionally be tempting. As I also said in the debate we had on Thursday, it is doubtful that Iran has significant challenges in terms of human rights. This is something we point out and have pointed out for a long time. That's also why we join, among other things. EU restrictive measures against Iranian officials. That is also why addressing human rights is always a central issue both multilaterally and bilaterally with Iran. When I say that there is no doubt that Iran has major human rights challenges, it is also because we believe that Iran has a very long way to go before they can be said to fulfil the fundamental rights of women and everyone else. It also means that we are going to hold Iran accountable in the position they have now been given. And as the representative is probably familiar with, there were five countries that assigned these five places. For us, it's going to be important to continue the very clear line we have with regard to Iran and human rights and, in particular, women's rights. In recent times, we have also raised the situation of named women’s rights activists when they are imprisoned, and especially recently because the corona has also made significant challenges even bigger. And that's something Norway, in line with a fixed and long-lasting line, is going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e242	I hear the Foreign Minister say that procedures are more important than morals. I don't understand how to sit in the United Nations and mean it. Then the point is to sit in the United Nations away, I mean. I'm going to go a little further, because I don't get any more answers. The process of possible sales of Bergen Engines to Russian interests has revealed weaknesses in the government’s ability to coordinate security policy. Also how we deal with countries outside our neighbourhoods is Norwegian security policy, because it can create interdependence, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also concerned with. The horse dealer in connection with the campaign to get us elected to the Security Council is such a case, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. The government's lack of willingness to follow the decision of the Storting to refuse to finance religious freedom in Norway, with reference to Saudi Arabia, is another example. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs now inform the Storting about how a decision to vote in the UN is taken? Is that the office? Is it the diplomatic corps that know this? We don't know. Is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Is that the Prime Minister? Who is involved in knowing what we're actually doing in the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e251	It's almost impossible to answer questions that add so many different and wrong premises. However, let me first just say that the issue of legislation regarding the financing of, among other things. religious houses, located under the Ministry of Children and Family, where legislation is now being drawn up, with which the representative is also well aware. It's not like we run a horse dealer when it's voting for e.g. The Security Council or the UN Human Rights Council. It is important for Norway to vote in a way that ensures Norwegian interest. And it is – as I have also informed the Storting about both in presentations about the work of the Security Council and on questions from the representatives of the big business – that in some contexts, it is a very common practice, that we enter into voice exchange agreements with countries where we see that we can have a mutual interest, for example. by getting Germany into the Security Council, as we typically did at the previous crossroads, and Germany wanted to get us into the Security Council. It is then based on the assessment of Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e258	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e263	Voice exchange is probably another word for horse trade, at least as I have learned what horse trade means. The Government has an obligation to disclose information to Stortinget. The information shall be true and sufficient, and by reference to the Basic Law § 82, the obligation to provide information indicates that the Stortinget has a right to be informed of its final decisions. The government has an obligation to inform the Storting about what the government has decided on key issues that could potentially have consequences for the country's leading populace. If the government chooses not to do so, it has to be referred to decisions taken in the Storting. The Government may, when required, decide not to inform the Grand Duchy, but must then justify this in decisions taken in the Grand Duchy. That is when the Security Act is applicable. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the Security Act prevents Stortinget from providing the requested information? And most importantly, will the Minister of Foreign Affairs be willing to stand still in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and provide information on what Norway voted on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e272	Again, there are many premises on this issue that it is difficult to both refute in a short time and to the extent that they also tell us what the situation is like. But I have never claimed that the Security Act should prevent the discussion of voting in the UN. On the contrary, I have said that it is the United Nations rules of procedure that make countries, and this applies to all countries, not tell what vote they have, that is. Neither who they vote for nor who they do not vote for. It is a debased principle in the UN, and I believe that it is a credibility and trust Norway must also continue to have. I therefore believe that drawing the lines of the Constitution in this context is going to be very special. Obviously, the government has an obligation to provide information to the Storing and to provide truthful information. So do we. But I have never experienced that any previous government has been exposed to questions as to whether it is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e279	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e285	Maybe that's because there's a breach of the Constitution. We magnification representatives participate in international forums. I am, among other things, Head of the NATO PA delegation. In this context, there is also foreign policy on behalf of the Stortinget. It is absolutely vital for me to know how the government deals with foreign policy also in the United Nations, in all sorts of contexts. And we have demands, as a nationalally elected assembly, to know what the government means in foreign policy, and what it actually does. The procedures of the UN are completely irrelevant to this national Parliament. I understand that it may be very convenient for the government to refer to procedures, so that one can continue with the horse dealer in terms of voice exchange, as the foreign minister says. But there's actually something called moral as well, and it goes ahead of procedures. So does the Foreign Minister think that UN procedures are more important than clearly showing where we stand morally?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e292	The government is showing us where we stand through foreign policy. We have an open and free debate on Norwegian foreign policy. No later than two weeks ago, I was here to explain Norwegian foreign policy for one hour. We had a debate last Thursday. It is up to any representative to ask both written and oral questions, to ask in the debates, to ask questions. I also feel that there is an interest in Stortinget. I make two annual presentations on EU and EEA issues. I also make one annual report on Norway's work in the Security Council. In other words, there is great access to discussing foreign policy and where Norway stands. I feel that there is a fairly broad consensus on the long lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy. It's been through alternating governments for many years. But it's also the way, of course, that the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who often believes something else, is quite free to believe it. But I am very often explaining Norwegian foreign policy in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e299	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e304	My question goes to the Minister of Justice and Security. One of Alf Prøysen's most famous shows is about the farmer Lars who was going to Hamar with slaughter. Lars was the one who normally ran the farm with a hard hand, but when Lars was at Hamar, the animals got to go as they wanted, the wife could go through Lars's letter and find cash, the daughter got to hit the barn, and the son trickled to himself both smoke and wine from the father. And while the hours went on at Hamar, Lars sat and played away the money he had earned. Had the Prussian lived today, he might have written about far more important errands of the Hamar. The police reform has brought down and centralised a number of police arrests in Norway. The interior, which is larger than Denmark in terms of area, has only one more arrest, and it's located in Hamar. From Dovre, Lesiah and Tynset, it's over 20 miles to Hamar, every way. And when the police drive people to the Hamar arrest, it can go for hours without police preparedness in large areas. Or to rewrite Prøysen: Lars is at Hamar, and we're out of order. Even more often, people experience that the police are not first on the spot in the event of serious incidents. However, prevention is also harmful. To NRK 22 April, Kjartan Libra, working vice-leader in the PF Inland, says: ‘In the context of centralisation, those who work more outlyingly and in smaller units feel that they are not being heard in their cases, and the problems that arise out there.’ And he adds: ‘They also feel that the crews they have had are now going to do their job centrally. And they are not allowed to do the prevention measures that they themselves want to operate.’ Is the Council of State satisfied with the historical centralisation that has been by the Norwegian police?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e325	I am pleased that we have implemented the police reform. I am pleased that we are following up an important point in the Gjørv Commission report, which was about non-coordination and non-coordination. We remember an operating centre that collapsed. We remember an emergency flight that didn't get to the Utöa. There's a lot we can say about that report. The verdict over our police preparedness was very, very serious. We have also received a police analysis in retrospect that goes through the police thoroughly. That is why there was a very large majority in this Chamber, of course against the votes of the Central Party, in order to reform the police. They've got bigger and stronger districts, they've got bigger and stronger units, and they've got more skills and better methods. We now have 3,600 more officers in the police districts throughout the country, we practice more, we have new boats and cars, new police helicopters and a national emergency centre. So the police have undergone a huge change. We've had it as our top priority, and that's absolutely necessary. Then it's not like, as it's said, that the police are moving out less than before. The police had in one year 100,000 more calls. The police are moving out more often, and they're moving out faster. That's because in the context of the police reform, we decided to do something with all the stories we read about how long it took the police to get there. We introduced response requirements. We're measuring the police. We have three different categories, and in the autumn, the police reached all three categories for the first time. It's important. People all over the country need security for the police to come. And then we see that it takes time somewhere. It has nothing to do with the police reform, although I understand that someone will make this a debate about it. On the contrary, after the police reform, we measure. We know where the police are coming from, and we know when they're coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e342	What the measurement shows is that in many places in Norway — in many smaller locations — the response time has increased from 2016 to the last measurement in 2020. In the VG a short time ago there was a case about the local fire department in Salangen that had to do police and ambulance duties, among others. due to the centralisation of the police and the ambulance service. Similar stories have recently come from both Bjørnevatn, Karasjok, Hardanger, Setesdal and many different places in the country. Firefighters must attack both killers and violent and perpetrators. This is also pointed out in the DSB report in 2019 – by all missions in the fire and rescue service, the top priority health mission of 6000. Is the Council of State, as Minister of Emergency, concerned that firefighters are required to carry out police missions in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e349	It's a story description I just don't agree with. It's a history description that's about the police reform making us who live in a long-distance country – we live in the whole country, fortunately for it – have situations where it takes time for the police to come. I could show you hundreds of phrases before the police reform where exactly the same thing happens. That is exactly why we introduced response time. We are concerned that the police will achieve their goals, and that we have demands for how long it can take. But it happens that it takes time. We had an event last weekend in Hardanger, where you depend on getting a ferry. This is the case in this country – there are fewer policemen on Varaldsøy than there are in Bergen. It's a policy I perceive that everyone is behind it, just because the risk picture is different. So we're going to go over and see what warnings the fire department is going to, and what warnings the police and health services are going to. Most accidents are car accidents. Then the police might not be there first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e356	There will be follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e361	Police are, of course, a number of places in Norway less present than before, and preparedness is worse than before, among other things. through a massive closure of the Länsmannkontoret in a number of places in Norway. In 2009, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said to the VG as a comment that the lenght office in the North Odal was open two days a week, starting at 1 p.m. 10 to 10 o'clock. 14:@item: intable Text context ‘Some of the basic police service disappears. This is tragicomic.» And on the other hand, ‘This picture is an illustrative example of the police crisis. In many places, the availability of the population is minimal. People don't get any reports and they don't get any contact with the police." So what has the government done? Well, it's shut down the Länsmannskontoret both in the North Odal and in the South Odal, eleven police officers are out of the area. Does the Minister of Justice think that people and businesses around Norway have got a more accessible police force after the government has carried out the centralisation of police time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e376	I have said that before today, and I would like to repeat it: we have never had a better police preparedness in this country than what we have right now. So you can't count the standby depending on how many offices you have, and some of the offices have only opened a couple of hours a week. That's not what police preparedness is all about. Child abuse occurs seven days a week, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. We need a police force to deal with the most serious issues, and the Norwegian police do. It's not about the office address they have or the office they're in. The difference between the fire department and the police is that while the police are on duty all the time, the fire department is waiting for a call. There are two fundamental differences. We're going through it now -- DSB has been assigned to go through it, as we announced in the Social Security Communication, and look at the missions and look at the content. It's not like the fire department is doing the police's job. We don't think that's the situation either, but we're going to go through this. But readiness has improved throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e383	Sigbjørn Gülsvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e389	If you look at the standby and the police who are out, for example in Rome, where I myself live, an area that has approx. 300,000 inhabitants: In the past, there was a standby instruction that said there would be a minimum of four patrols in that area all the time. That emergency instructions had to be terminated because one said that East police district did not have the resources to follow up. The challenge is that in a number of places in Norway, police resources are being tied up, among others. as a result of a long way to the arrest. One also sees that it takes a long time in Asker and Bærum, and one sees it in Buskerud. For example, if a person is to bring a person from Gol or Hemsedal, maybe the police patrol is gone for five – six hours from that area before it gets back. One has said in the Storting in connection with the police report that the government is being asked to reopen police arrests in areas where it takes too long. What kind of follow-up will the government make of the specific decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e399	I don't think the representative can disagree with me that there have never been more police officers in every police district than it is now, that they have better equipment, that they practice more. That we've got common units in place, it doesn't like the Center Party to talk about. Community units are very important. It's very important, and it's the whole country. As regards the request decision from Stortinget, the answer is very simple. All request decisions in Stortinget will be followed up by the government, and we will do the same with this. But counting offices or detention centres is not what is important for basic preparedness in this country. It's that people get help when they need it, and they're heard when they need it. Now we have over 730,000 calls at 112, where they get answers within 20 seconds. It's important, because that's the first point of contact you have when something serious happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e406	Lene Vågslid – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e415	There was a need for police reform. So we disagree about the implementation of police reform is in line with what the Stortinget said. The Labour Party believes that we have agreed with the government on the reform of the neighbourhood police, because the longest is broken. There is no doubt that there are many, many more in the Norwegian police force, but there are no policemen there who agreed that they should be appointed: locally, in the local police. We also see that there is a great lack of prosecution lawyers, so if you're very busy with those who have been subjected to the most serious crime, it's strange that you haven't cleared up the prosecution crisis. Now we have several examples, for example: from eastern police district, where there is a very demanding situation, where victims of crime have to wait for a long time before their cases are taken up for investigation or trial or a conviction. The question is, why does the government not give priority to legal certainty for victims of crime, who are in these long queues while criminals receive criminal penalties?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e422	I understand that the Labour Party agreed with the reform. I also understand that the Workers' Party has been very much in agreement with the implementation of the reform. I have not heard that the Labour Party disagrees with the fact that we have more and stronger units in common, I have not heard that there is a disagreement in the organisation of the police districts, but more people want to work in the geographical units of the patrols. We fully agree with that. That's why we made a historic decision last year, when we employed 400 additional police officers, whom we've been very clear that after the corona management, the border management, they're going to be assigned to the geographical units. We reached last year two per thousand. It's been an important goal for the Workers' Party, and it's been for the government. Now we reach that goal, and it's going to be the bottom plan of police preparedness. So it is that even in the case of lawyers, there has been a very clear commitment. East police district has 50 pst. more prosecution lawyers now than they had in 2013. They're working to bring down the remains, but I fully agree that it's still going to be a priority area to strengthen the prosecution side of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e427	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e432	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Today there are very many children who do not go to SFO. The national evaluation shows that many families opt out of the school leave scheme because they cannot afford it. The consequence is that many children aged 1–4. Steps may not participate in SFO play, learning and sharing. Many of these are among those who might have had the greatest pleasure of a good SFO offer. Around the country today there is a big gap in both price and quality, and a large part of the quality of this important part of the kids' daily lives is left to the coincidences of the municipality to the municipality. Today, SFO has no state regulation of quality and content requirements, and there are large local variations in price. In 2019-2020, the average monthly parental payment in schools was NOK 2 500 for a full-time job and NOK 1500 for a part-time job, but the price varies from zero to well over NOK 3000 per month for a full-time job between different municipalities. The big question now is what's going to happen to the SFO. Does the government have a plan to increase quality, and does the government have a plan for all children who want it to be included? My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: What is the Government's plan for all children to join the SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e443	I am very pleased that the representative gives me an opportunity to talk about a matter that I am burning very much for myself, namely ensuring a good offer on SFO and AKS to children all over the country. Historically, the design of the offer and price setting have been very much up to the municipalities. Some municipalities have then invested in quality in SFO. For example, I would say that the Municipality of Oslo has gone ahead. Many years ago, a separate framework plan was created, and it has been defined with a different type of content and therefore also given a different name, namely AKS instead of SFO. We have believed that we need such a framework plan nationally to ensure the quality of all the municipalities in the country, and therefore we sent a proposal for a framework plan for consultation in winter. That consultation has been carried out, and we are really ready to implement that framework plan very soon, which will say something about what requirements we make for content in SFO and AKS across the country. As the representative was inside, there's a big gap in the parental pay. I'm a little unsure whether it was in the current state budget, or whether it was the year before that we first introduced classified parental payment, which means that some of those who have the lowest income either fail to pay or have to pay a very low price for SFO. I think it's a step in the right direction, but we're far from in the goal, and I think we should go in the same direction as what we've done with kindergartens. There we have now secured free core time for children from over 46 000 low-income families. I think we should do the same at the SFO, and that this should be an important goal for the next enlargement period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e452	I thank you for the answer, but I still understand that the government's plan is to extend the scheme with some kind of tested discount or free quote. The experience with the needs-tested schemes is not very good. It turns out that there are still many who fall out of these arrangements, while the municipalities that resort to universal arrangements are very much capable of bringing everyone along. Does the Council of State, when looking at the great differences between the municipalities that have switched to a universal free system, and the rest of the country, really have any evidence that a need-tested system is working, if the goal is for everyone who wants it to be included?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e457	I believe here we can see that the experience of introducing free core time into kindergarten has led to many more children with a minority background now entering kindergarten. What we have done to have a targeted and needs-tested policy is that the left has got something that SV did not get when they put in government, namely that in practice we guarantee about free space in kindergarten for them with the worst advice. I believe that SV did a great job of both building up kindergartens and introducing the maximum price in kindergarten in its time, but what SV's policy led to was that some of the families who had the worst income, and who previously paid less for a nursery, ended up paying more. That injustice has now been corrected and ensured that tens of thousands of children now have free half-time space and also a quite reasonable full-time space. I think it's right to do the same thing with the SFO. It is because such a reform is more feasible. It's more economically sustainable, and I also think we need to think about the sum of our welfare systems when we introduce them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e466	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e472	It should certainly be said that SV did not deliver in place and price in kindergarten in the government, but we can leave that. Now we have to move on. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge exactly what she thinks about the changes that SV and the red-green majority have made in Oslo and Stavanger. In Oslo it is now that one is about to target free activity school throughout the city. In the schools in the inner east, to take them as an example, it was in the autumn of 2020 almost 100 pst. participation in between 1 and 3. steps. So the results indicate that a universal system helps us achieve two things: a little bit better advice for all families of children and that everyone, absolutely everyone, is given the opportunity to participate. In Stavanger, SV was a driver to get free SFO on the first step. What does the Minister of Knowledge think about what Oslo and Stavanger have achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e481	I don't know if the representative came along, because I actually gave a message about the job they did in government. It is possible that it is very unusual, but I believe that SV deserves to boast about it. What has been done in the kindergarten field in the last 20 years has been a tremendous boost for both young people and families. What I think was wrong was that when you set a maximum price, there were actually quite a number of municipalities that ended up removing the income graded parental payment they had. I myself was a local government representative in the municipality of Orkdal then, and instead of having graduated prices according to the parents' income, they ended up having to spend the money at a lower maximum price for those who had higher incomes, and then there was a higher price for those who had low incomes. That's what we have now corrected, and that makes those who have low incomes secure space. I think that the initiative Oslo has made – first when you put on quality, and also now when you have worked to bring down the price – has been important, but I think that it was implemented in a very strange way when you chose schools by city districts, which made my secondary school get free AKS, while for example. schools in Oslo west, where there could live at least as many poor children, didn't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e490	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e495	If the Minister of Knowledge believes what Oslo has done is good, and if she ignores the way it was phased in, and rather looks at the result: free AKS all over the city – and if she thinks what Stavanger is doing, with free SFO at the first step, is good – will the Minister of Knowledge be with SV to introduce free SFO throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e500	Meg acquaintance still has Oslo not free AKS.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e505	Half-day place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e510	Half-day place, yeah. All of them, most of them still have to pay a special allowance for the child to go on the AKS. It is important to stress that the public takes most of the price for, for example: a children's playground – the public pays approx. 80 pst., and then it's a specialty for the parents. All of them, most of the families are doing absolutely well to pay the bill, and then I think it's perfectly okay that they do it instead of the public spending billions on financing an already expensive scheme. We need that money for other things. The same applies to SFO and AKS. It is clear that in municipalities where it is felt that this is an important balancing action, it is possible to go even further than what the state is doing, but I believe the most important thing we can now do from national teams is to ensure that families with low incomes, those who can't afford the SFO today, can afford it, and that this will give all children equal opportunities. We'll also get rid of the same amount of tax increases that SV goes in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e519	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e524	This is really at the heart of the discussion when it turns out that tried-and-tested arrangements are not so precise, not all are met, as a universal system does. It's also, because I guess that's why the Left is skeptical about tax increases, important to look at the economy of ordinary families. Well, there's no more targeted way to strengthen their economy than to lower the large bills they have today to the SFO. The left has also participated in using 30 billion. kr to lower taxes, priority lower taxes on equity, and if Guri Melby thinks that what Oslo and Stavanger have got is good, why is it more important to be involved in lowering the tax on equity assets than to introduce free half-day space into the SFO? I just want to remind you what it costs: free half-day space in SFO throughout the country: 5.4 billion. kr – tax rebates to Guri Melby: 30 br. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e529	As I said, we have for the first time introduced a graduated parental payment on the SFO. There was nothing that SV introduced when they were in government. I think the most important thing now is that we start by making it easier for those families who have low incomes, that they also have the same opportunities as those who have higher incomes. There are a lot of good things you'd like to have been free, but I also think it's an important job for us politicians to do some priorities. In fact, I think it is more important that we ensure access to the SFO for families with low incomes, than that we make sure that people like me and Audun drop a bill in the mailbox every month that we are perfectly good at paying. Because there is no doubt that we also have a responsibility to ensure the sustainability of the welfare state. I want my children to have the same opportunities to get good well-being as what we have, and then we actually have to be a little responsible and have to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e536	I'm sure the councils meant the representative Lysbakken. Representative Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e544	I would like to talk a little bit about priority, and I just want to remind you that since the overwhelming majority in Norway have significantly lower income than the representative Lightbakken and the councillor Melby, I think others will think it's a more important handshake than it would be for exactly the two of us. And that was exactly the priority I asked for, because I agree that we need to give priority. That's why I'm very clear that we're not going to make peace with a single penny of the tax cuts that Guri Melby's been on. We'd rather use them for well-being. That is why we promise to introduce free half-day space into the SFO throughout the country, and the rich will pay for it. Therefore, my counter-question to Guri Melby was: Why does she prefer lower taxes on equity assets than free half-day space in SFO?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e549	In order for us to be able to provide good welfare services in our country, we are totally dependent on the fact that there are people who create jobs, that there are people who pay taxes, and that there are people who generate income for this country. That is why we have been committed to ensuring good framework conditions for business and for people working, through fiscal policy. What's amazing is that at the same time, we've been able to make the most of the time for families with children, for those who need it the most. Because it's never been so cheap to have a kindergarten for families with low incomes. Let's make it cheaper to get a place in the SFO. Child protection has been lifted for the first time in many, many years. So, in total, families with children have improved the framework of these measures that have been implemented. And we've been able to do that at the same time we've also given some tax credits. That's because we're actually prioritizing, and we're prioritizing those who need it the most, rather than lubricating the goods thinly to absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e556	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e561	My question also goes to the Council of State Melby. We are now beginning to see the human consequences of the pandemic. Not surprisingly, the most serious consequences for the youngest, the most severe and harsh measures imposed by the government. Several thousand children and young people who were referred to treatment for mental health problems in 2020 were not admitted. Nearly half of the students have suffered severe mental distress. Their common denominator is isolation, unforeseeability and strict measures. The youngest in our society have taken the biggest stock. It has been tougher for all children and young people and their families, but some have had it tougher than others: children and young people who have difficulties at home and need to meet safe adults in school and kindergarten, and children and young people who need more follow-up and professional support. It is now urgent to reopen society for the youngest and not least to avoid the new closure of schools and kindergartens. The prerequisite for doing so is to ensure the safety and health of employees in schools and kindergartens, those who have lived with a high risk of infection and enormous workload in the last year, and who cannot protect themselves by distance or protective equipment, which others who must be physically at work can. It is this hindrance that some time ago the World Health Organization has said that staff working with children and young people should be given priority in phase 2 of the vaccination strategies. Norway has now received the same professional advice from the FHI to allow school and kindergarten employees to move forward in the vaccine queue. We in the Workers' Party already asked in January for a clarification of their place in the vaccine queue. Then it was rejected, but now it is urgent to get a clarification. If this is to have any effect at all, the vaccination must be in place before the summer holiday. Can the Minister of Knowledge now give a clearer answer as to whether employees in schools and kindergartens are prioritised in the vaccine queue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e572	There is no doubt that employees in schools and kindergartens have done a great job in the last year. There is also no doubt that many people feel insecure and feel that they have a very stressful working situation. We've also taken that seriously. Among other things, we have adjusted and made even clearer by the infectious agents, which should make it even easier to follow them. I am well aware that many people now believe that security has increased also in all schools and in all kindergartens. Despite the fact that we have managed to keep schools and kindergartens open during almost all of the pandemic, teachers have not been much more vulnerable than other occupational groups. I think that's because a lot of people have been incredibly good at following infection prevention measures, and they've had very good routines to make sure they've complied with quarantine rules and that kind of action, which has done that once it's infected, fewer have been hit. It is not true that the FHI has given us a recommendation to prioritize employees in schools and kindergartens. What's right is that the government has given a mission to the FHI that, in the next stage of the vaccine strategy, we should evaluate whether to make any changes. And one of the things we've asked them to assess is precisely whether some occupational groups should be given priority. FHI itself has pointed to employees in schools and kindergartens. It's a mission FHI is now working on, and they want to give the government an answer. The reason why we haven't gotten that answer before is because we're still in the situation that we're driving and vaccinating the vulnerable groups. I feel that there is no party on Stortinget that has arranged for teachers and employees in kindergarten to be vaccinated before the most vulnerable groups. But it will be relevant in the next step, where we are once again making an assessment of both different occupational groups and other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e579	I can confirm that what I think everyone is talking about is phase 2 of the vaccination. But I have to say that I am disappointed that there is no new or any clarification from the Council of State now. The questions that now have to be addressed by the government are whether to give priority to employees in schools and kindergartens in front of 40-year-olds who are at home, who have an office job. I do not fully agree with the Council's description, because the development of infection has just done – and that is what is behind FHI's recommendations – that employees in schools and kindergartens are more vulnerable, and that is what has done that the recruitment organisations have said that there is a risk of collapse if you do not get this done. What I'm afraid is that the government is now actually running some kind of fool game to the employees, that they've been given a straw straw to consider a priority. But as you evaluate, the timeline closes. If this has any effect, the vaccination must be in place before the summer break. Is it possible for the Council of State to clarify more clearly when this message may come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e586	This is not a fool game. As far as the vaccine strategy is concerned, I feel that we've been playing with very open cards all along. The same applies to FHI, which gives us the professional recommendations. We've been following the professional recommendations all the time. We're in a situation in Norway today where we're still not done vaccinating them at 65 plus, i.e. those that are defined as being at risk. I feel that neither the teachers nor the Workers' Party are in favour of prioritizing them in front of these groups. This means that we can use the time we are in now, and use the knowledge we still get – about what kind of effect the vaccine actually has, for example. if it works against the spread of infection — to make good professional judgements, etc. I'm going to promise that by the time it's time to re-priorities, we will make a good assessment of the priority of employees in schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e595	There will be follow-up questions – first Torstein Tvedt Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e600	It's absolutely right that I'm calling for a plan for the next phase. I'd like to remind the Council of State of the timeline. As I said, the Workers' Party called for this plan as early as January. Then they were asked to wait. On 7 April, a new technical advice came from the Institute of Public Health, which opened up this process. On April 21, Melby himself told VG that the government has given a mission to FHI. Now, one month after the professional advice from the FHI came, there is still no clarification. I do not expect the Council of State here and now to be able to give me the time for the press conference they might want to have, but it must be possible to clarify something more clearly if there is to be some sort of point, especially when it comes to time running before the summer break. Can you say it's going to be in April? It's not many days. Is it going to be during May? Or can you at least say if there's going to be a clarification before the summer break?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e605	As I said, there has not been any professional advice from the FHI that employees in schools and kindergartens should be given priority, but what has happened is that we have given them a mission to assess it in the second phase of vaccination. We still haven't come to that stage, but we're using the time we have now to make these assessments. That mission was given a deadline to FHI to deliver on in the middle of May. Then it is likely to be relatively short before the government makes a decision if there is to be any change to the vaccination strategy. But then the rate of this will depend very much on how many vaccines we have in the country, how fast they can be rolled out, and when this can happen. I ask the representative to ask the Minister for Health about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e610	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e616	It is really asked whether the Minister of Health is needed in this Chamber, because it seems that the Minister of Knowledge has taken the speech of the Minister of Health into his answers. There are several with me who have just called for the Minister of Knowledge in the government in this debate. The message Melby has received from the sector, cannot become clearer: in a letter by letter has a now called response and a clearer clarification. One points to increased sick leave, and the employees talk about a risk of collapse. Now one says that FHI will deliver something by the middle of May. Then the clock starts ticking. Can the Council of State at all say anything about its work within the government to get concrete action on behalf of the sector, to ensure that it is prioritised? And does the Council of State think it is important to get a vaccination of employees in schools and kindergartens before the summer vacation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e623	I can promise the representative that I work every day to make sure that it is safe for children, for young people and for employees in schools and kindergartens, and so is it. I have also been very clear that when we get into phase 2, a professional assessment should be made as to whether it is right to prioritize some occupational groups. I have pointed out that employees in kindergartens and schools should be among the priorities. I have been very clear about this both externally and internally in the government. However, there are quite complex assessments that need to be made, and this is related to, for example, geographical priorities. Because it's also true that in those areas where we've had a high level of infection, like here in Oslo, employees in schools and kindergartens have been more vulnerable than they have been elsewhere in the country. So the re-priority that the government did in the past, that we prioritised places with high infection, is maybe one of the most important things we could do to make sure that both students and adults are safe in schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e630	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e635	I do not disagree and understand very well that this is complex and complicated for the government, but I also hope the Council of State sees that the time is now running out for this assessment. The important thing now is to do what we can to avoid new shut-downs, and not least, as I said in the introduction, that we are doing what we can to spare children and young people, who have been hit very hard. So I'm going to challenge the government even more clearly to say something about whether teachers and employees in schools and kindergartens can at all expect a clarification from the government before the summer, or whether they really have to complain about them being vaccinated in line with the current strategy and thus being vaccinated with the rest of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e642	If we were in the situation that we were driving and vaccinating 50-year-olds at home offices all over the country, I believe that the representative had been right in his description that the time is running out. But unfortunately we're not there yet. Still, in many municipalities in the country, there are many who are over 65 years of age who have not yet been vaccinated. Fortunately, it will soon be the case that everyone in that group has also been vaccinated, but it is only after we have completed the risk groups that it will be relevant to re-priorities. I really hope that the representative of Solberg and the Labour Party will agree. At least I have not registered that neither the employees’ organisations nor the employees’ organisations have arranged for them to be given priority over the risk groups. So I said in a previous answer that FHI has been given a deadline for the middle of May. Then the government will make its assessment, and I can promise that that assessment will come in good time before the summer vacation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e651	Torstein Tvedt Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e656	Once again, I can make it clear that the debate that I and the employees of the organisations, and more of them, have taken up, is about phase 2. One fully agrees with phase 1 and the risk groups and health workers. But again, based on the professional advice, both from the World Health Organization and as I have seen and the media have referred to the FHI, a person now wants to see if a priority should be given to employees in schools and kindergartens. I hope the Minister of Knowledge will be busy and fight for internal government when those discussions come, because it is so important for these children. But to clarify it, the time that runs out is also about the school year. Now there is an increased infection among children and young people. The British mutant has had great consequences right there. Therefore, it is now urgent to clarify so that you can keep as many schools and kindergartens open to summer holidays as possible. Vaccination this summer will have less to do with it, that's what I mean. But can a clear one get to something already in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e663	Now, fortunately, infection rates are falling for all parts of the population, including children and young people. That means that there are fewer outbreaks in schools as well. In many places it has also been driven on a red level over a long time. We recently received a report from the FHI that shows that it is an effective measure to prevent infection among children and young people. So we've done a lot of work to make sure that there's no infection among children and young people, and to bring down the infection numbers, and it looks like they've been working, because the infection numbers have gone down. At the same time, we have also managed to keep schools and kindergartens open. That means that a lot of kids have experienced that despite being in a pandemic, they have had a relatively normal everyday life. But I can promise the representative that I will always take the fight for schools and kindergartens, both internally in the government and externally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e670	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e675	Throughout this pandemic, the immigrant population has been strongly overrepresented in infectious statistics and in admissions, serious illness and death. There is a serious problem, for which some measures have been tried but failed. This is perhaps the most stable situation we've had throughout the pandemic. Despite interpreting services, translations, outreach activities, dialogue meetings and a number of other measures that have been tried, it has not worked. In a debate last November, I spoke to the Minister of Health about the reasons why immigrants are grossly overrepresented in the statistics. What the government pointed out at the time was that there were different professions that were overrepresented — typical immigrant professions, if you could say so. There were larger families, tightness, economics and social conditions that were pointed out. This has been an explanation that has been used very frequently. I was accused of stigmatizing when I said we had to look at other reasons, for example. trust in the authorities, whether or not compliance with the rules has been adequately cared about. You didn't have to talk about that, because it could stigmatize and make the situation worse. In fact, the immigrants are now the biggest victims because we can't manage to get the infection down, and in recent times there have been a number of reports that point out that it's not exactly the problem of poverty and occupations that are the explanation. Then I would like to ask the Minister with the overall responsibility for pandemic management: What does the government think today is the main cause of overrepresentation of infections among immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e686	I have the overall responsibility to lead us through a pandemic, to coordinate, but it is still sector responsibility that applies, and it is simply because they have the best knowledge of it with responsibility for the sector. We have the Minister of Immigration in the Chamber, and I think that the question can be asked more correctly to her or to the Minister of Health, because this is a health issue. That being said, I very much agree with the description that we have challenges related to parts of the population where we have not achieved well enough despite the fact that there have been very, very many actions taken. But the question should be answered by a government council other than me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e694	Now it is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for immigration, and the Minister of Knowledge who is responsible for integration, but I note that the Minister of Defence does not have any opinion as to what one of the main problems of the pandemic is. But the Minister of Justice is responsible for going out and out of the country, and I have pointed out several times that travel activities among some immigrant groups to the home country can be a cause. I have asked a number of written questions about this, and the answers are poor, mainly because data and information about travel activities are missing. Today you can attend a funeral in Pakistan with hundreds of participants and zero infection. The same would have been illegal in Norway. The question to the Minister is: What does the Minister of Justice think about travelling to the other side of the globe and attending an event that would have been strictly illegal in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e701	I just have to correct: it's not that I don't have a feeling about the question, but it's that there are other government councils that have the formal responsibility for these sectors, and then it's more right that they answer the question. But it is absolutely right that I am responsible for the entry rules, and they are among the strictest in Europe, not to say the strictest. They've been there all along, but we don't have any exit bans for people living in Norway. There is hardly any country that has, and those who have, have very large exceptions to it, naturally enough. It's very, very intrusive. What we've been working on is very strict entry rules. There are strict quarantine rules all the way, there are strict test regimens all the way. It is true that if a person chooses to travel to another country and participate in something that would be illegal in Norway, we cannot deny it. We don't have jurisdiction in Pakistan, but we have control of entry from Pakistan. It is then that anyone who has not been on a necessary trip must be on a quarantine hotel. You can't go home to a funeral in Pakistan because they're going very fast after a death.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e706	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Engen-Helgheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e711	Earlier this week we got a statement from the Prime Minister where self-criticism was taken in some areas, among others. the fact that for too long the infection of imports was not taken seriously enough. It was trust-based for too long, and the arrangements with, among other things, quarantine hotel was based on self-reporting. Perhaps some of the factors that have been a major contributory cause of ever-new outbreaks of infection are that there has been no control over the import infection. I'm now getting a lot of enquiries from people who may be working especially on the Gardermo, who are worried about what they see. When the authorities say they have full control, it is not what everyone experiences when they look at it closely. The question is, is it not that it is still based on self-reporting and trust when you come back from a trip abroad, whether you are going to a quarantine hotel or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e718	To be very clear, we've had the toughest demands in Europe, but what we've learned is that the rules that worked last year didn't do it in the harvest. That means that what was trust-based last spring was also trust-based in the autumn. We had to tighten that up. People interpret the rules differently. People live differently. People do this differently. We have slowly, but surely, as the level of infection has risen, tightened to every intervention. Every action we take must be proportionate, and that must be necessary. These are difficult questions. It concerns many, and it is very intrusive in the lives of many that we are doing these measures. Now we have very, very, very strict rules. I hear that someone in this room – it has happened on several occasions – has asked how thoroughly we are doing things at the Gardermoen. I'm inviting the representative of Engen-Helgheim up. I think he will see that it is not possible not to get information, not to be met with guards and not to be clearly cared for. You have to have proof that the trip has been necessary, otherwise you have to go to the hotel. – Excuse me for going over time, President, but still: Today we have said that for the necessary travels from parts of Europe and from India, Pakistan and Iraq, the rules apply to the need to go to hotels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e727	Jon Engen-Helgheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e732	I asked questions whether it was not still trust-based, and whether it was still based on self-reporting. At least in the last answer I received to my written question to the minister, it was clear in the attachment to the reply that this was based on self-reporting, the different categories of whether you were going to a quarantine hotel or not, and whether the trip had been necessary or not. I would like the Minister to clarify in a much clearer way whether what the government previously took for granted this week was self-criticism, that for too long it was based on self-reporting and trust, still is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e737	The time doesn't always go by when there's a lot you want to say. That's two different things. What was trust-based last year was to leave most people to assess whether a trip was necessary or not, to leave most people to assess where you were in quarantine, to leave most people to evaluate the test regime. Of course, filling in the registration form when you get to Norway is trust-based. We don't have any people filling out for you. You complete it yourself, but you have to prove, in addition to the registration, that the journey you have been on is absolutely necessary – that you have been with children, that you have been with a close family member who is dying. The fact that you have been on a strictly necessary journey must be documented. If the documentation is not good enough, you will be sent to a quarantine hotel. Then you have to sort it out afterwards. These are very strict rules. No one just gets through because they say they've been on a necessary journey. It shall be reported and that report shall also be followed up. We have a call center that's now calling the reporters, just to check that they're performing the quarantine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e744	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e749	I have to ask the Minister, because the information she provided in the previous answer is simply not correct. I went up to the Gardermoen three weeks ago with a colleague, took the plane up and then, when the planes came from Doha and Istanbul, what kind of control was there when they arrived at the arrival hall. There was absolutely no control. The arrival hall was full of people. It was close contact, and it was right into a taxi. I even have it on video. So if the minister is interested in it, I can document it and send it to her. There isn't,' says the minister, so I'll recommend her to go up to the Gardermoen and see how this works in practice. That corona test is actually voluntary. What the minister says, she's probably been informed, but that's not true. So I hope she can... shutting down the arrival hall is the absolute best, so that it doesn't sit 50 people waiting for its closest and then take the taxi together. Being on a necessary trip, a funeral, a wedding – in Norway you cannot be at a wedding or at a funeral. Then they say that there are too many people present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e754	This, I think, is completely out of place. I've been to the Gardermoen, and unlike the representative, I come within where the planes land. I've been with you through the pass queue. I have followed through the corridors that are closed, where information is given. I've met the guards. I have met in the arrival hall for foreign countries where reference is made to testing. You have to be tested. It's not voluntary. You have to be tested, and then you're referred to where you're going at a Korona hotel. Everything is a blocked area. You don't get out physically. I met the guards there and said, "What do you say if someone comes and says they're clear?" They're not coming out. You don't get out. So in addition to Engen-Helgheim, I'd like to take Tybring-Gjedde with me. We travel in each of our cars, and then we can meet the police at the Gardermoen, the customs officers at the Gardermoen. There are restricted areas, and you are transported by bus from Gardermoen to the hotel you are going to. You don't get away. You can't just say that it's a necessary journey. Of course, a wedding abroad does not last. A funeral does, if it would have been possible to carry out within a reasonable time. It doesn't have it in a lot of countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e762	Then the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e776	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic question list in this section. The amendments are as follows: Questions l, from the representative Siv Henriette Jacobsen to the Minister for Knowledge and Integration, have been withdrawn. Question 7, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, will be taken up by the representative of Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e794	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e802	We stick a little bit to the same theme, but I'm going to vary a little bit in the follow-up, I can promise: ‘The government has entrusted the FHI with the task of reviewing the vaccine strategy and has asked them to consider priorities for some occupational groups. The Minister of Knowledge has said to the media that vaccination of teachers and nursery workers is being considered in this context. When can employees in schools and kindergartens expect clarification from the government as to whether they will be given priority in the vaccine queue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e811	I'm sorry if this becomes a bit repetition for the audience, but I'm going to do my job and read out the answer that I've written in advance: Working in kindergarten and school is meaningful, it's also challenging and demanding, and it's a very important job, and under this pandemic we've seen how crucial the employees in the education sector are for children and for students. Of course, to keep schools and kindergartens open as much as possible, it is vital that employees are healthy. It is therefore important that these occupational groups be assessed in the ongoing evaluation of the vaccine priority queue. The government, through the Ministry of Health and Welfare, has commissioned the FHI to review the vaccination strategy in the context of the gradual reopening plan this summer. This mission also includes ordering a reassessment of priorities. socially critical key groups against the infectious situation and vaccine delivery plans. It's a big mission that's given to the FHI, and there's going to be thorough assessments. And once we have received the answer to the mission, the government will take its assessment of any changes in the vaccine strategy. So I can unfortunately not answer the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg more specifically the question of just when the government will make that assessment, but as I said in my previous post, the professional assessments of the FHI will most likely come in the middle of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e822	Both this answer and the previous round show that we are not going to get any clear clarification of the vaccine strategy from the Council of State today, so I will challenge her a little now on the consequences of this uncertainty and the consequences of the fatigue you are seeing because of the workload and the great risk of infection among employees in schools and kindergartens. At school we now see that both ends are really good: there are record few applicants for teacher training – a total decline of 12 pst. in the last two years. There are record numbers ending, which simply say they have had enough, and who are applying for other jobs, and figures from the Education Association also show that record numbers of early retirements – despite the high-ranking applicants for higher education. I think this is a lot about the teachers being in the first row under the pandemic, being the first line, having a hard work pressure, and that it hasn't been good advertising. But does the Council of State think that there is a link between the dissatisfaction you now see in teaching, especially in the absence of infectious diseases and vaccines, and the decline in the number of applicants for teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e829	Now I think it's important that we stick to the facts, and I think it's a little bit important that we be honest in this debate, because it's actually been that most of the teacher groups haven't been overrepresented in the statistics on infection. The most vulnerable are those employed in kindergartens, but there are still other occupational groups higher than those employed in kindergartens and schools. But there is no doubt that in a municipality like Oslo, where there have been high levels of infection over time, there have been a good number of teachers and other employees who have been infected in some places. The most important thing we can do to secure them is to ensure that we have good infectious control measures and that the school owners follow up with good procedures to follow the infectious control measures. And although I'm absolutely sure that the vaccine is important, I actually don't think that the vaccine is a miracle cure for what is perhaps the most tiring right now, and that's that school life is quite unpredictable. It happens that in a very short time you have to change the way you operate. Suddenly, there is a need for temporary workers, and suddenly it's quarantined, and it's not that vaccine itself will make that situation change overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e834	I think of the answer that it seems like the Council of State really looks a little blind on the statistics and doesn't see what's real and everyday out in schools and kindergartens. For one thing, the infection rates themselves are, but another thing is the uncertainty – and not least what all the employees have sacrificed through the pandemic, where one has gone to work, had many close contacts and perhaps set aside his or her privacy and contact with family and friends. As I have said before, this is also a profession that does not – or should – have the opportunity to stay away, or actually protect itself with infectious diseases devices, which other professionals have had the opportunity to do, for example: bus drivers and employees in the food industry. What worries me is that the consequences are now for education, that both ends well, that both record numbers end, and that record numbers are applied for. So, once again, the council doesn't think there's a certain connection here, and that that's exactly why it's urgent to grab hold of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e843	I'm a little worried when the representative says we just have to ignore statistics and ignore numbers and facts. I think that in such a pandemic as this, which may seem quite overwhelming and perhaps a little daunting for very many, it's just important that we manage to raise what's true, and what's real. I have been busy several times raising the amazing effort of employees in schools and kindergartens, and there is no doubt that there are many who go to work every single day, who feel that they are quite unprotected. That's exactly why we've given it the mission of the FHI, to look at a prioritisation of teachers and employees in kindergartens and schools in general. After all, I have tried to challenge the representative several times in the past as well, but I have not received an answer to it, because according to the rhetorical representative, it sounds like he thinks we should give priority to these groups now, until we have finished vaccinating those who are in the group 65–75. It would be interesting to get a confirmation of whether that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e855	‘Bodø Secondary School is one of four schools in line with aviation and is thus a provider of apprentices in aeronautical education. Many ports in the Air Force, so the experience with military material that the school gives them is of great value. In order to ensure modern and relevant education, the school is dependent on having access to relatively modern aeroplanes to train. Therefore, the school has applied for a long-term loan of one of the F-16 flights to be phased out of service. Will the Council of State ensure that the school's wish is met?»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e862	The government is concerned that the defence does not duplicate civil education but provides assistance to produce sufficiently relevant professional competence in secondary schools. The defense is one of the country's largest educational establishments and is among other things. depending on the aeronautical competence of secondary schools. I am familiar with the fact that the Swedish Defence Equipment has received an application for F-16 for technical education in aviation from the high school in Bodø. Defence equipment is now in the process of disposing of F-16 and works closely against stakeholders who want to buy. They continually identify the sales potential of the fleet we have, also to see which machines can be donated or borrowed. On a general basis, the Ministry is very positive about lending teaching materials to aircraft disciplines, but together with Defence Materials, we need to find materials that are suitable for lending, and collect the necessary permits from nations of origin. So there's a little bit of bureaucracy to get it done. Bodø Secondary School sent an application in May 2019, and the first answer they received, in November 2019, was that Defence Material was in the process of preparing for the future disposal. At the time, it was stressed that it was early in the process and that the application was noted together with the other applications and initiatives taken. It may seem extensive, the process of approving the lending of aircraft equipment, and it may take some time, but it's a little bit more complicated than just handing over an old machine, all the time you have to have contact with the nations of origin because of the agreements that have been in place ever since we bought the planes. We have informed Bodø in higher education that the process is somewhat delayed, and that it is likely that their application will be processed early in the second quarter of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e873	I say thank you for that answer. Everyone understands that sending a farm off an F-16 is not done without taking any reservations. That's right, as the Council of State says -- there are some agreements here. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that the defence has a good cooperation with these educations and depends on it. I fully agree with that, but precisely on the basis of the bureaucracy that is, it is underlined from the school that you want to borrow it. So you don't have to take it, so the defense doesn't have to dispose of it. Then you avoid a lot of bureaucracy. That's a point in itself. But this is done before. It's not a new issue. Among other things, there is an F-5 at Bodø High School that the school was loaned in 2011, and that the defense will get back when you have turned on it enough. It's getting pretty worn out, so I don't think it's in flightable condition. I understand that it takes some time, there are some processes, but will the Council of State make sure that the school's wish is fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e882	With the obligations of that type of equipment, it is enough that you have an obligation to be a little careful about both where the equipment is stored and what happens to it. What I want to make sure is that we follow the guidelines that exist for these kind of transfers, whether they be loans or disposals. I am very concerned that we work closely with the county councils on vocational training, because it is a very good way for the defense to get qualified personnel on. We have worked closely – especially with aviation when we now build up bases both on Evenes and on Ørland – with the municipality of Nordland, with the municipality of Troms and Finnmark the county of Bardufoss, with the municipality of Trendelag the county of Ørland, just in order to have the education near the operational bases we have, and thus to create good learning environments for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e887	Once again, I am pleased that the Council of State is positive. I wish he were a little more clear that we are going to do this. It's not random that this education is in Bodø. One is that Bodø has served the nation as a host to the fighter aircraft base for 70 years, with all the inconveniences and opportunities it has given to the city and its population. In Bodø there is also one of the largest airline in the country, namely Onionsøe. It is the largest private employer there and also has close cooperation with this training. I must be allowed to comment on where to keep this plane, that I think it should be on the inside of what remains of the air station. And then we also get to that, because it's pretty much walking distance to high school. All the other practicalities have, as I said, been through before, and they are possible to find a solution. The application came in May 2019. The last time the school contacted them, they had still not received a response. Does this mean that you want to have an active process and a dialogue with the school and county council on how to do this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e894	In the case of Onions and other airlines, we have worked closely with the major Norwegian airlines to identify the needs of technicians, pilots and aeronautical personnel in the future, in order to be absolutely sure that we can expand training capacity to the extent we need it. It's a very good collaboration, I experience, both with county councils that stand for the school, and with airlines and other actors that are going to have this kind of staff. I think we've answered the school with what we can answer, that this is a process that's going to take some time, but where we're positive. It's probably also that we're not going to take it that easy and say it's just about where it says it. No, we're going to follow the obligations we have for this type of material, so we're absolutely sure that we're doing it right, and that they get it materially in a way that makes them get the benefit they want from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e904	‘The opposition to the coup d’état has been highest in the north, where 87 per cent of the Finnish mark in a referendum refused to merge with Troms. Nevertheless, the government overrun the people's will and combined these states with coercion. The County of Troms and Finnmark have decided that they will be dissolved and have applied to the Ministry for dissolution in November 2020. They have still not received an answer. If a referendum on county dissolution is held, will the government listen to the outcome of that referendum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e911	It is the Stortinget that has adopted the merger of Troms and Finnmark county municipalities, in line with the rules of the division law. The proposals for new county divisions were thoroughly discussed and adopted by the Stortinget, and the Stortinget has also discussed several proposals to reverse the merger of the Troms and Finnmark county municipality, which the majority of the population does not want. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation received an application from the municipality of Troms and Finnmark dated 14 August 2020 to initiate an investigation into the division of the county municipality. The application was submitted to the Stortinget on 7 October 2020 for the examination of the State budget for 2021, Prop. 1 S for 2020-2021. The government considered that the question of sharing the Troms and Finnmark county municipality was sufficiently investigated, and that there was no basis for initiating further investigations. It was therefore recommended that the merger be maintained in line with the decision of the Storting. The majority did not comment on this in the treatment of Prop. 1 S, and the government has assumed that the Storting thus adheres to our recommendation. The municipality of Troms and Finnmark County was informed on 14 October 2020 that the case had been brought before the Stortinget. If the case is raised again and a referendum is held, the result of the referendum will be included as one of several elements in the assessment of the case. The new county municipalities have existed for barely a year and a half, where the corona pandemic has naturally marked most of the time. Many activities to continue the construction of the new county have been replaced by crisis management. I am convinced that the merger will be a good solution for the municipalities of Troms and Finnmark. I agree with the Vice-President of the Central Party in Alta, Jan Martin Rishaug, when he says to the NRK 9 December 2020 that he does not believe Finnmark is getting better alone: «I see what kind of challenges Finnmark would have if we were not merged.» He fears that Finnmark will lack both money and professionals on the day you draw new county boundaries on the map. These are wise words from the Central Party's local representative, and they are forward-looking. I believe it is important that the new county councils now have the freedom to provide good services for the benefit of citizens and businesses, because it must be the most important thing – not a question of geography, but a question of services. Through regional reform, the government has strengthened the role of the regions as a social developer. The county councils are now responsible for administering 42 000 km of district road, they are responsible for managing broadband subsidies, ports and very much more that are central to municipalities, the population and the business community, not least secondary education. I am concerned that the county councils must now have the necessary calmness to work just to develop good services for citizens and businesses and take the social development role they have been strengthened, in the future, seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e926	It was a quite predictable, long answer from the Council of State. It's far this country, and I just want to make sure that the Council knows how far the distances are in North Norway. I want to ask the responsible State Council for forced marriage between county municipalities if he knows how many kilometres it is from the north-east point in Finnmark to the south-west point in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e933	If the answer was predictable, it might be because the question was also predictable. With regard to the specific question that the representative is asking, I can't answer it on the kilometer, but that the distance is large, there's no doubt about it. So it's relatively what you're talking about as big, and what you're talking about as little. For example, many in the Center Party refer to: The Week as a giant party, but the reality is that the Inland is more than twice as large, and that it is 32 miles if you sit in the car and drive from Halden to Hemsedal, while it is 66 miles from Brønnøysund to Narvik. And troth layers are much larger than what the viken is. But that there are large distances in the north, there is absolutely no doubt about it. I recently had a meeting with eight municipalities in Finnmark which also underlined the challenges it entails in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e940	Then I can inform the Council of State that it is 1109 km from the northernmost point of Finnmark to the southernmost point of Troms. It takes 16 hours to drive a car – it is actually one hour shorter if you choose to drive via Finland. It's a state larger than Denmark. It actually takes longer than driving from Oslo to Berlin. It's huge distances. I want to ask the Council of State: what is the reason why the government has forced this reform, which nobody in Troms and Finnmark wants? No one wants it. Is there something we in North Norway don't understand, but as a councillor from Bærum understands? The government has promised gold and green forests, money, workplaces, tasks. There is none of this that has come to the northernmost states, and we see a massive deportation today. If you ask people in the north, the whole reform of the government is a lie and a fantasy. I want to challenge the Council of State whether he answers: what has gotten better in Troms and Finnmark with this merger?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e949	This was a question full of premisses I did not share. Let's start with that no one thinks that this is good for Troms and Finnmark. Well, the Central Party's own interim rapporteur in Alta, Jan Martin Rishaug, believes that Finnmark will not be able to cope alone if you go for a split, and that these are good reasons why they should remain united. He also says that if you choose to go to reverse this decision on Troms and Finnmark, Alta, which is probably one third of the inhabitants of Finnmark, should go to Troms. I understand that the representative does not choose to listen to me, but maybe she can listen to her own, those who have the shoes on and know where it prints locally, instead of sitting in an office inside Oslo and deciding what the county structure in the north should look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e957	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of State: «In winter, the Council of State wrote a chronicle in the Address Paper entitled «The Community Reform Is Not Over». In this context, the Council of State argued that the voluntary line ‘has made it difficult to adopt an overall approach to the reform and to ensure effective implementation’. Can the Council of State guarantee that no more municipalities will be merged with coercion if the Right continues in government at the end of the harvest?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e966	It is only the Storting that can decide the aggregation of municipalities that do not want it. This is provided for in the law on division. On 7 December 2017, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to assume that good and voluntary processes would be the basis for changes in the municipal structure, and that any municipal mergers in the period 2017-2021 should be based solely on voluntary activity. Of course, the government has dealt with this decision. I can't give any guarantees as to what decisions a new Stortinget will take, but the government is working to strengthen the local government's prerequisites for providing good and equivalent welfare services, in order to drive overall and sustainable social and economic development, to have a sustainable and robust economy and to strengthen its own local democracy. In many cases, larger municipalities will be the best solution to achieve this, and the best starting point for building a new and larger municipality will always be that the municipalities involved themselves want the merger. That is why I am pleased that the municipal mergers that have come are based – mainly – on volunteering. Then there have been some places where you have had to cut through, and there are many municipalities involved. I have no independent goal of changing Norway, but Norway has changed. The assumptions have changed dramatically since the municipal structure of the Battle of Vedum wanted it, was adopted in the 1960s. At that time they had completely different means of communication, completely different and fewer detailed leads from just the Storting on how to solve tasks. I believe that the complexity of the problem solution today makes many municipalities know how demanding it is to stand alone. It is demanding to build large enough and robust enough professional environments to be able to solve the problems in a good way. 90 pst. by the most diversified municipalities, they report that they are unable to attract the skills they need to carry out important tasks. So here's a lot of challenges. As a councilman who I met here last week, said, The health and care department in my municipality consists of one person. It's now me, and it's been like this for five months. I am unable to get anyone to fill the vacancy. Clearly, with the situation we are facing, with pandemics, with preparedness, with crisis management, this is demanding. This is why many more municipalities are looking at alternative ways of solving these problems by having more cooperation, as well as by bringing together municipalities on the agenda, for example. North of Gudbrandsdalen, where a few municipalities that the representative knows well, are now considering joining together. I have no independent desire to change the municipal structure, but we have to assume that the world is different than it was in the mid-1960s. Therefore, the representative's response to the challenges facing Kommune-Norge is not a good one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e981	The stork representative Margret Hagerup had a bigger play in Stavanger Aftenblad last week. She represents Right and Rogaland Right, and she arranges for the Rogaland to go from 23 municipalities, which is the current situation, to three to six municipalities. She gives many reasons for this and believes that, if necessary, Stortinget should also ‘take responsibility and redraw the municipal map’. It's a quote from Hagerup. Does the Council of State Astrup agree with its party trap from Rogaland that it would be wise to go a round in the county, going from 23 down to three-six municipalities, for which Hagerup and Rogaland Right argue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e988	I believe that you should listen to local voices, wherever they are in the country, and take over the message they come with. That being said, my starting point is that volunteering is the best starting point for a municipal merger. What I would like to see is that the representative might also be able to stay a little bit on the grounds that many people are now considering community mergers, that there is a need to look at the municipal structure again, and what the representative's response is to those challenges. We hear a good deal about that, other than looking back at a time when we're all good at looking forward to it. I feel that the local politicians in the representative's party are far more pragmatic and solution-oriented and address the challenges they face, which are neither national nor local, and are planning for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e995	I notice that Council of State Astrup says that volunteering is a starting point, and I notice that somehow he gives some kind of connection to Hagerup's desire to go from 23 municipalities to between three and six, which is Rogaland Højre's view. If he doesn't, he gets to distance himself from it now. Then I go to a fellow member of the Council of Astrup called Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen, who is the Minister for Fisheries, and who has said to the NRK that coercion is a little underestimated. He compares municipalities with child rearing and says that if you had not forced them a little, you would not have gotten their children on the road. That's the way he's talking about it. Right-wing municipal political spokesman, Ove Trellevik, smiles well and goes on to say: ‘ Ideally, there should be about 200 municipalities, all of which have at least 10,000 inhabitants.’ Does the Council of State Astrup think that the opinion of the Council of State Ingredient that coercion is a little undervalued, and the opinion of municipal political spokesman Trellevik that we should go down to 200 municipalities is wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1007	I notice that the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, has found some opinions regarding the use of coercion. I have noticed that the representative Mr. Slagsvold Vedum wants to use force to divide Westland into two, against the wish of his local county representatives, among others. the rapporteur-general and the former rapporteur-general of Sogn and Fjordane. My starting point is, as I said, that volunteering is the best way to have municipal mergers. So there will be some cases where the Storting has to make some overall decisions to get a good, comprehensive solution. It's an approach that Stortinget put behind in the previous round. I don't think there's a need for coercion, because I think a lot more municipalities see that there's so much left here to coordinate and work together to trigger the amazing opportunities that lie in the region, if you join forces. So here it's going to happen a lot, regardless of what the central authorities mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1017	«The representatives of the Viken County have a regular job alongside their duties. The county council comprises Eastfold, Akershus and Buskerud with a population of 1.2 million, 51 municipalities and 58 secondary schools. How does the Council of State think it is possible for these elected representatives to do a job in leisure when the county is so large?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1024	I was concerned with a previous answer that this with how big a thing is is a little relative. As I said, driving from Hemsedal to Halden is 32 miles, driving from Brønnøysund to Narvik is 66 miles, and I've never heard the representative ask questions about whether the county representatives in Nordland are able to do a good job for their district. The inland area is well over twice the square kilometers that the Viking is. Nevertheless, it seems that the representative and his party have accepted that the Inland is a reasonable size. As I said, I'm not very concerned with geography. What I'm concerned about is that the county provides good services. Your location identity is just linked to the place you're from, not the name that's in the county house. It is tempting to quote the former Senterpart rapporteur in Andebu, who said that Andebu is still going to be Andebu even though it is now part of Sandefjord. He was right about that. Similarly, the role of the county council as a social developer, whom I know the representative is very concerned, is not related to the exact location of the borders, but to the ability to deliver on the population and business demand, whether it is good county roads, secondary education adapted to local needs, responsibility for state broadband funds or additional responsibilities for both cultural and food products, which are important for creating local jobs and good framework conditions for growth and development in the region. So if it's not possible for county representatives in the Gulf to do a good job, it's worth remembering that the Viking is less than the Inland, much less than Troms and Finnmark, less than Nordland and less than Westland. As far as the size of the county is concerned, the fold is located about this way. in the middle of the tree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1033	But it's a fact that there are 1.2 million inhabitants in the Gulf, and that's about twice the next, which is Oslo. That is a fact – I hope the Council of State agrees. There are 87 members in the Viken County. It's a teaching committee with 13 members, 3 are free bought. There are 9,579 employees, there are 58 high schools, there are 41,618 students. In addition, there are colleges, there are apprenticeships, there are public higher education schools with institutional training, there are training in criminal care, there are career guidance, there are follow-up services for students who fall out of high school, and there are educational psychological services for students with special needs. The usual member of the county with a regular job outside the politics has little overview, to say the diplomatic. Is Viken's organization weakening the rule of the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1040	No, I don't want to say that. So the answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1045	It's quite interesting that it's promoting the rule of the people, then, it doesn't weaken the rule of the people to have such an organization. The bay has a government model, just like government and big business – one has a county council, and one has a county council. It is a County Council for Education, it is a County Director for Education, and under that County Director for Education has a six directors: one for Administrative Development, one for Development of Competence and four Regional Directors. The district managers are then necessary because the county is too large to manage for a district director, and it is divided into these geographical areas: central, north, south-west and south-east. Kongsberg and Numedal, which are linked, the central state and the Drammen, which are linked, have different district managers, while Ål secondary school and Bjørklangen secondary school in Aurskog-Høland are associated with the same district director. Is such a division wise in the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1050	That division is up to the Viken County Municipality to decide for itself, and in terms of the number of directors and how they have chosen to organise themselves, the representative rather gets to take it up with the red-green majority who governs the Viken County Municipality, because this is for the Viken to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1058	This question, from the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, is raised by the representative of Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1063	‘One of the major reforms of today’s government is regional reform. The well-functioning state was merged, often against its inhabitants' will. Large tasks were also promised for the merged states, but that promise has not been fulfilled. Opinion polls show that resistance to regional reform is still at its best in many states. And there is a long way between those who defend the reform. Does the Council of State think it right to continue to overrun the will of the people when the resistance to regional reform is so great?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1070	Let me first say that I do not agree with the premise for the question, namely that there have been promised tasks that have not been transferred. A number of tasks have been transferred to the county councils that strengthen their role as a social developer. Let me mention: administration of county roads, management of grants for the development of broadband, ownership and management responsibilities of fishing port facilities, grants for non-governmental airports, labour market measures for in-house training, grants for county partnerships for career guidance and associated career centres, internalisation of counties and other regional coordination of integration policies, grants for job creation part B, mentoring and traineeship schemes, grants for in-service training for migrants, management of grants for freshness, learning and mastering, inter-disciplinary work in the drug field, tasks in the archipelago and State-secured open air areas, tasks in the cultural memory area, responsibilities for Siva and Innovation Norway for five industrial schemes, management of grants for freshness, learning and mastery, inter-disciplinary activities, tasks in the archipelago, tasks in the field of cultural heritage, responsibilities for Siva and innovation, grants for innovation Norway for five industrialised schemes, the business environment, the business environment programme, the business community, the business community, the mentors, the mentoring, the mentoring and the administration of grants for rural development and the rural development of rural communities30. It is quite obvious that the county councils have a fine opportunity with these tasks to strengthen their social development role, and I believe that it is too early to condemn this reform when the time that has passed since it entered into force has been marked by a pandemic. There are great opportunities for those who want to strengthen their role in this area and to be able to provide citizens and businesses with the services they expect and deserve and to contribute to sustainable development and growth in their area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1077	The Local Society Association has carried out a polling exercise, and it shows that in a large majority of the merged states, the population wants a disintegration. In Sogn and Fjordane, two thirds say they want a solution. It's a clear signal. The citizens have not been given the opportunity to express their opinion. There have been no referendums in these states. A large majority of the population also say that they want a referendum to be a solution. The center party thinks dissolution should be voluntary, and it's not true, as it's suggested, that we want a forced resolution. But the question is: does the Council of State think that a referendum should be held when the population demands it in a constituency, for example. Sogn and Fjordane County? And will the Council of State in case listen to the outcome of such a referendum?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1086	It is The Storting according to the law of division that addresses these questions, and I assume the result of a referendum will be included in the assessment made by the Stortinget before a decision is taken. Then the representative says that that's not right what I'm saying about the Central Party being in favour of a forced dissolution of the Vestland County Municipality. But the representative's party leader, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, was out in the newspaper this week and said that this is a little like a marriage; if one wants to go out, then it must be dissolved, and then with coercion for the party that does not want to go out. So it's like going in to dissolve this by force, against the will of local elected representatives of the Central Party. So here it is that the Centre Party chooses to sit in Oslo and decide – across the wishes of local representatives in the county. I think, as I said, it's too early to arrest them. I believe that the county councils have a great potential, and spending a lot of time, energy and money now to reverse this decision, without having any idea what it's going to solve, that's what I think is the wrong answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1095	Like most marriage resolutions, there's often one party that's going to leave because it's an unsustainable relationship, so I think that's also about county and municipality solutions. But to something else: In Stavanger Aftenblad, Margret Hagerup was very clear that it had to be a large-scale coercion of municipalities. She says, "Everyone in the Right agrees that more mergers need to be done." And she believes that this cannot be done on a voluntary basis. I assume that such a large-scale coercion merger will not only apply to Rogaland, but that there is something that will also affect the rest of the country. Does the Council share the view that there must be a large-scale coercion – and about how many municipalities does the Council of State think it is natural to have in Norway? How many municipalities does the Council of State think it's natural to have in my home state, Tree Layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1104	When the representative says that everyone in the Right agrees that there is a need for more municipal mergers, I think we can add that it is not the Right to mean alone. For example, ask the advisers who are sitting around in the country and struggling to fulfil the tasks that the Stortinget has ordered them to do, who see that they are unable to recruit the personnel they need, who are now sitting in the middle of a pandemic, but do not have a municipal authority, I think they will say yes, there is a need for more municipal mergers. They've been very clear on that. They gave advice just to the government that there was a need for more mergers. When you talk to local politicians around the country, like I do every day, you know that feedback, that yes, there's a need to do something. I feel that the Central Party has no response to the challenges facing Municipality-Norway, no answer to how the opportunities should be triggered, and how to create enthusiasm, growth and further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1114	‘An opinion poll recently showed that 73 per cent of those asked in Eastfold want the Gulf to be dissolved and Eastfold to rise again. Right-wing representative Tage Pettersen says to the NRK on this occasion: ‘If there is a discussion about the division of the Week, both I and Right are willing to attend that discussion.’ Is the Council of State, as its party colleague, ready to participate in such a discussion, and does the Council of State believe that the Viking has been a good solution to the division of regions in the East?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1121	I'm participating in such a discussion right now. It's not the first time either, and there's probably going to be more discussions about this. I understand that it's taken up at regular intervals how the structure should be. As for the inhabitants of Eastfold, I myself have a close relationship with Eastfold and have spent many of my childhood summers in this beautiful part of the country. Eastfold is always going to be Eastfold, no matter what the county administration name is, and how you choose to organize. What I think people are actually concerned about is that the roads in Eastfold are good, the county roads that they use every day, that their children get an advanced education that has the quality and content they expect, deserves and needs to be able to get a good start to their professional life, and that they have a broadband offer where they live, which also the county municipalities have an important role in. That's what's important, that's what's crucial, and that's what really matters. Where the county administration is, or what it's called, I think is of secondary importance. Your location identity is linked to where you are from, not to what the county administration is called. So it's just because we in the right are busy with function, we don't have very high shoulders considering how you choose to organize this. But what I have an opinion about is that when you've been through a process, and then you've been in a pandemic, and then you're spending time, resources, and the power to solve it again instead of focusing on solving the problems for the benefit of the inhabitants and the business community – well, I actually don't think you're putting the people's interests first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1134	Of course, the county's inhabitants are busy with county roads and secondary schools and everything else the county council has to offer, but the longer away from decision-makers, the more difficult it is to influence them. It's pretty simple logic, at least with me. Germany's first chancellor, Bismarck, said something that has become quite familiar: that those who know how politics and sausages are made never get a quiet night's sleep again. And maybe we can say that about the Week. That's the recipe for sausages and politics. One late night, a construction was made that was not professionally investigated by anyone, and we have received a state that appears to be quite dissimilar. The council said that distance is relative, and referred to that there were many states that were larger than the Week. Yes, but there are also many counties that are larger than or of the size of Eastfold. Rogaland and More and Romesdal appear about the same size as the old Eastfold. What are the criteria for a functional state in the light of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1143	I think that Eastfold is a very integrated part of a coherent housing and labour market in the East, and that emphasis needs to be placed, even when looking at the regional social development role of the county. Then it's probably so that different people focus on different things in how this is going to be organized. But the most important thing for me is that they have the power to actually prioritize the services people use in everyday life, and that we can facilitate the business of the region, and that we have an environment of competence that makes them the best starting point for developing the very best education that children need and deserve. This must be more important than name and geography. So it's function and services that we're focusing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1150	The Council of State emphasises that Eastfold and Buskerud are part of a common housing and labour market, but the government has not chosen to include the capital, which lies in the middle of these two old counties, and which may be the only community these counties have, namely that some workers share food packages saying around the same lunch table in this city. But you didn't choose to bring that. In connection with the regional reform, I checked, because then I was rapporteur in Trögstad, and then the statistics showed that there were four who commuted between Østfold and Buskerud daily. So there's no very common labour market between these states, nor is there very much a community of identity between Hemsedal and Halden. There are far different challenges that characterise these areas. The country has chosen to organise itself in other regions, for example: Navel. The governor includes Oslo, and so does Bufetat. When will you clean up the regional state?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1159	There are differences within the Viking, there is no doubt about it, and there is a difference between Hemsedal and Halden. However, there is no more internal difference in the Week than there is internally in a number of other states in Norway. And even in the states of the Center Party itself, I see that the Center Party believes that regional reform was a good idea. In the case of Agder, it seems like the Center Party thinks it's a good idea. In the case of the Inland, which is much larger, more than twice the size of the Viking, the Center Party believes that this is a good idea. But it's playing down the contradictions that also exist within that county. Why are there major regional cultural differences within the Inland state, while there is a problem in the Week? This is ultimately not about what kind of services the citizens deserve, but that it is approaching choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1169	‘Right, Advance Party, Christian People’s Party and Left have merged a number of municipalities and counties in Norway with coercion. Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold have become the meaningless construction of the Viken. To the NRK on 21 April this year, the representative of the Magnificent of the Right, Tage Pettersen, says: ‘If there is a discussion about the division of the Week, both I and Right are willing to attend that discussion.’ Is the government willing to listen to the overwhelming majority who want Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold back, or is there still any override and coercion?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1176	I have already answered this question and refer to my previous answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1181	What the Council of State has not responded to – I registered that the Council of State said he was willing to listen to local voices, but it is vital that the Council of State by actively google is able to find individuals in individual states that represent the same view as he. The question is whether he is willing to listen to an overwhelming majority in both Buskerud, Eastfold and Akershus who will dissolve the Viking and have the old states back. Is the Council of State and the Government willing to do so, or is there still the override and coercion of those living in the states that apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1186	Although I have answered this question already, I will answer it again. As I said, the Storting according to the law of division takes a decision on the sharing of an existing state, and I feel quite confident that the Storting will take over all available information before they reach such a decision. So it's not a decision that's for me alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1193	What is crucial here is what the government wants to do if there is an application from the Gulf, from Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold, to dissolve the region – in line with the platform that lies from the Red-Green Cooperation there – and come back to the three counties. I have heard the Council of State today use many different arguments for these coercive mergers and say that there are states that are larger in area than the Week. But Norway's smallest country in the area is Oslo, and it wasn't altered by the structural changes. More and Romesdal also passed, despite having fewer inhabitants than both Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold each had before. Why was it so vital to merge these three states? And is it so that the government will now be favourably disposed to an application for dissolution from the states and present it as a matter for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1200	Norway is a country that keeps up with several levels of government, and that is how we are well educated with administration. I believe that reducing the number of county municipalities is a positive thing in itself, but also a prerequisite for transferring more tasks to county municipalities. The county councils have now been given more tasks and strengthened their role as a social developer. And I think using time and resources now to reverse this aggregation rather than spending time and resources on the population and business on the way out of a pandemic appears to be a strange priority. I understand that the representative believes that it is popular at the moment, but especially long-term and good for the country it can hardly be said to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1211	‘Regional reform has meant that fewer county policies represent the population of the county in the merged counties than when the former counties had their own county. Government bodies and the organisation of business follow-up mergers and form new merged organisations. How important is good representation for democracy and our society, and how has regional reform contributed to more and better representation for the population of the merged states?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1218	Good representation is an important consideration in all counties and municipalities. Democracy, however, is not just about representation; it is also about what tasks and which authorities have been added to elected bodies. In the reform of the region, we have strengthened the county councils as community developers. Several tasks and instruments have therefore contributed to strengthening democracy at regional level. The parties have an important role to play in contributing to the representativeness of elected bodies, and it is the parties who nominate candidates for the electoral lists, decide on the list position and who should receive the voting add-ons. The parties thus have a strong influence over whom the voters can vote, and who can be represented in the next round in the counties. Experience from previous nomination processes until local elections suggests that the batches are involved in representation in terms of both geography, experience, gender and age. The parties have traditionally been particularly concerned with drawing up lists so that all parts of the county are represented. The county councils decide for themselves, over a minimum number, how large the county council they want to have. So this isn't a government question. In this assessment, the county councils themselves may consider what is the appropriate size to ensure good representation. The representation is about more than who's in the county. It is also about who is involved in the decision-making processes that take place in the context of elections. Municipalities may use consultations and other participation mechanisms to involve citizens in political processes and assessments of different issues. That way, more people are represented and heard, and I think the decisions are getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1231	I thank you for the Minister's answer, even though I believe that the representative question really got a little tedious here. In my county, now after the coercion with Vestfold, I have as telemarking only 30 representatives representing Telemark in the county council, against 41 when we were a state of our own. These 30 must now fight for telemarket cases against 31 representatives elected from old Vestfold, a state that has always been very different from Telemark, both in geography, distance, resource access, culture and not least identity. The difference, as well as the fear of even more centralisation of jobs and power to Westfold than the government had already provided, made the resistance to the merger with Westfold a great deal in Telemark. And fear has not subsided since the bourgeois nevertheless coerced the states together. Today, the regional newspaper TA mentions a survey of a total of 65,3 pst. will have Telemark back as its own county. Only 18 pst. will have the merged state. What does the Council of State think of such a high number in favor of dissolution? Is he and the Right ready to listen more to the people in this matter, as the Center Party does?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1242	The question of representativeness, which I realized was what the representative started with, is complicated. It's e.g. so that it varies to a very large extent how many voters each representative in this room has in his back. There's a system that the Center Party has been very concerned about that should be designed exactly the way it is, where, for example, it is. there are far more voters behind each representative in built-in strips than in rural strips, without me feeling that the centre party has asked any question about the representativeness of that reason. I don't think you can measure this either in the number of people in a county council or a local government. In Oslo, for example. 59 representatives of the city council, which is far fewer than smaller cities that Ålesund and Trondheim have traditionally agreed with. Ålesund now has a very large local government, as the representative probably knows, and Trondheim had the largest country with 89, if I don't remember correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1249	Thanks for the answer. Telemark had a state that looks quite different from Westfold, among other things. with large geographical distances and where one was very active in the field of district policy. The fact that there are now fewer to fight for those cases, gives a statement that now it is quite clear that very many react to whether there is enough power or short enough way to the decisions of the people of Telemark. But that's not just true in Telemark. That TA and also a number of other newspapers in Westfold and Telemark had cases in February that Højres representative from Vestfold, Lene Westgaard-Halle, stated that the regional reform has not worked for Vestfold and that they can do it alone. It also believes that a large majority of the population in Westfold, according to the survey that came today, where 59.9 pst., i.e. two thirds, would vote for the dissolution of the coercion. Only 22 pst. would keep the new county. Will the Council of State listen to its own representative from Vestfold and the Westfolds on this issue, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1256	The question of representativeness, which is then addressed in a local context here, is a very well-suited question to be answered by the county rapporteur from the Central Party in the country concerned. I expect that the representative will also discuss that very question with him. It is up to the individual county to initiate any changes in the county structure, and then it is finally the county council to decide on the structure of the division according to the law. There has been no such initiative at my table, and if there is such an initiative, the Storting will naturally be involved in it. But as I said, representativeness is an important issue, and here, too, each county has an important responsibility in facilitating the good hearing of the citizens' interests of all parts of the county. If the representative has challenges in how this is done in his country, she should address it with her county rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1268	‘In a poll in Uppland, 49.6 per cent say Hedmark and Uppland should be two states, and 49.5 pst. believes that a referendum should be held. Hedmark and Uppland are two major choice circuits. I believe that the constituencies must exist as today, like the majority of the electorate. Two constituencies in one state may give incentives for politicians elected to the county to have the greatest interest in fighting for their major elections district, and not the whole state. Does the Council agree that this organisation provides unfortunate incentives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1275	The representative raises an important question about the importance of electoral division for the functioning of our democracy. Following the adoption by the Stortinge of a new county structure with effect from 1 January 2020, it was no longer in accordance with the 19 electoral districts laid down in the Constitution. The task of analysing the consequences of the electoral division was added to the Election Law Committee. Pending their investigation, Stortinget unanimously decided in 2018 that the 19 electoral districts should be continued at the 2021 elections. The Electoral Commission has identified the consequences of different electoral divisions and is divided into what is most desirable. The majority are in favour of continuing 19 electoral districts, while a minority believe that the electoral districts should be changed on the basis of the new county boundaries. The number of electoral districts is regulated by the Constitution. Following the work of the Electoral Committee, several proposals have been made to amend the Constitution relating to the number of electoral districts. As is well known, the government intends to submit a bill for a new electoral law to the Stortinget by the end of 2022, and a new electoral law and new electoral system will then apply from the Grand elections in 2025. I look forward to the Storting's handling of these questions in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1284	Now, the government didn't entirely answer the question that I asked, but I'm going to angle it a little bit differently and a little bit in terms of other user groups. People in Finnmark, Akershus, Buskerud, Østfold, Sogn and Fjordane, Oppland and Hedmark – they will not be part of a giant group that has not been given new tasks. People really don't know where this giant organization wants to go. People feel that this organisation doesn't represent them, and I haven't been told that More and Romsdal or Nordland want to get bigger either. There's someone who carefully says that this can go well, but it's often those that are closest to the nucleus and closest to the power, and it's not an unknown phenomenon. Then is my question to the Council of State: does such a way of organising society in popular democracy and popular commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1293	The individual county council has a great responsibility to facilitate just popular engagement and participation, and how to choose to solve that problem locally is something you have to discuss locally. Then I notice that the representative did not get my answer earlier today on what tasks have been transferred to the county municipalities. If the representative wants it, I'd like to re-read it, but it's a significant number of tasks. What strikes me in the representative's question is how little ambitions the Centre Party has on behalf of the county councils and the social developer role they are now able to take. This is about important things like 42,000 miles by county road. It's about secondary education. It's about broadband subsidies. It's about port infrastructure. It's about issues that are important to people in their everyday lives, near where they live, but also to business, growth and development in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1300	These tasks were largely tasks that the counties also had when they had a different organisation, perhaps with the exception of what goes on county roads, but also where the county municipality had a very important role. So the tasks of the new regions have become very few and at least not much changed since the last time. The regional reform was also justified on the grounds that we should have a more even size of the counties, and it is clear that once the task transfers have been missing, it is a challenge in itself. At the same time, there's something that somebody else has been up to, but that I want to clarify a little bit, and that's that it has a powerful centralizing effect by other state organizations getting bigger. Stakeholder organisations that often represent groups that struggle in their everyday lives are growing. Voluntary organisations at state level are growing. The political parties merge their ranks, and power is centralised further away from the people. I've been head of state for many years, I know exactly what this is all about. [[The President clubs.]] When asked by the members of these organisations at local level, would they say that this has led to a better understanding of the issues they are concerned with in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1309	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1314	I want to make it clear that all of the problems I'm reading instead are new ones. None of those tasks are tasks that the county councils already had. However, as there is a clear need for repetition — and for new viewers — the tasks are renewed: administration of county roads, management of grants for broadband deployment, ownership and management responsibilities for fisheries port facilities, grants to non-governmental airports, labour market measures, internal training, grants to county partnerships for career guidance and related career centres, internalisation of counties and other regional coordination of integration policies, grants to Part B jobs, mentoring and traineeship schemes, grants for institution training for immigrants, management of grants for health care, learning and mastery, multidisciplinary work in the field, tasks in the field of the archipelago service and State-secured open-air areas, tasks in the field of cultural heritage, contracting authority for Siva and Innovation Norway for five industrial schemes, the business environment programme, incubator programme, business network, mentoring services, rural development and rural development programmes, management of rural areas, management of operational programmes for rural development, management of agricultural and rural areas. [[The President clubs.]] Management of grants for women’s language and culture... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1319	The President must be sorry, but the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1324	A little regret also from my side to the referee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1332	‘Statistical Central Bureau has discovered an error in the climate accounting which leads to the addition of 674 million litres of marine gas oils and auto-diesel in the 2019 petroleum statistics. The error implies that Norwegian emissions may have been on the ground since 1990, that the 2020 target can be reached, and that the newly adopted climate plan is hardly enough to achieve the 2030 target. What additional measures do the Council of State consider need to be implemented in order to achieve the objective of at least 45 pst. emission cuts in the non-quota sector, behind which the Storting has come?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1339	Let me start by stressing that the Norwegian climate targets for 2030 are firm. Of course, this also applies to the objective of reducing emissions by 45 pst. in the non-quota sector by 2030. The government has presented an ambitious climate plan for the Stortinget, which has recently been addressed, and where there was also support from the plural to all the major and important grips. The climate plan contains a range of instruments that will reduce emissions by 2030, and we have set up a solid follow-up plan that will increase to make it necessary to adjust the use of drugs on the road. Of course, it is unfortunate that there has been an error in the greenhouse gas accounting for which the SSB is responsible. However, it is too early to say whether this adjustment affects what is needed to achieve the climate target. At the moment, we do not know how much sales of marine gas oils have gone to international speeds and what has gone to domestic speeds. It will only be clear when the Statistical Central Agency publishes the preliminary emission figures for 2020, as planned on 8 June. So we don't know what this is going to mean for the emission calculations and the emission projections. But government has an ambitious climate policy with a strong tool use. In the climate plan, we take the heights to allow policy to be adjusted when necessary if we do not achieve the different objectives. In total, we have calculated that the plan we set out will cut out 20 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in the decade. So it's more than what's needed to achieve the 45 pst target that comes from the government's platform. The phenomenon in the climate communication will also help to reduce emissions that until now have not been reported. In climate legislation reports, we want to do good for the implementation of the climate plan and progress towards climate targets. The fact that shipping is now at a higher altitude than one that has been trusted underlines the importance of the government's commitment to green shipping. And green shipping is a major effort for the government. We have targeted and over several years within different vessel segments to facilitate the phase-in of low and zero emission solutions. We have a range of tools in the climate communication aimed at shipping and fishing: the increase in CO 2 tax, national low and zero emission criteria for ferry and fast boat services for 2023 and 2025 respectively, that it will aim to introduce conversion requirements for biofuels in the next year’s shipping journeys, etc. In addition, we provide support for technology development and market introduction through the instrumentation. Greenhouse gas reductions in road traffic are also a high priority for the government. With the exemption of charges and the support of Enova, the state is working to increase the phase-in of zero-emission vehicles in all vehicle segments. For passenger cars, the transition is well under way. Last year, more than half of the new car sales were zero tow cars, and there is also a sharp upward trend in the case of electric cars. We're going to step up this effort for years to come, so that we can achieve the climate goals we've seen – and they're firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1360	I thank you for the answer, and I notice that the Council of State prefers to focus on the uncertainty of whether this should be 0.9 or 1.1 million tons. It'll still leave us with a huge problem, because according to Cicero, this is about 1 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent per year. That is, we have about 10 million tons that are missing in the government's climate plan to achieve the goal that the government itself has set itself, about 45 pst. discharge. Climate change is developing a more plant-based diet as the most effective single measure among those investigated, plus the fact that the government’s climate plan is calculated by not compensating for increased CO 2 tax for petrol and diesel. So you could cut the emissions by an additional 3 million tonnes more than what's underlying the climate plan the Council of State referred to. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the government make proposals for the Storting, for example. in the revised national budget, on reducing meat consumption and increasing fuel prices or other measures with significant impact, in order to meet its own climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1375	I would like to remind you that, after the government's climate plan has been presented and supported in the Storting, we are proposing to cut 12 million tonnes more than the EU commitment in the ten-year period, and we are proposing to cut 4 million tonnes more than the government's own political promise, which is higher than the EU commitment. It is important to stress that we have already, in the climate plan, committed to over-achieving the climate targets, and as I said in my article, we are constantly committed to adjusting the use of instruments in the future to achieve them. I would also like to add that even if what we are talking about here – a bug report to the SSB – is unlucky and will have consequences, it is not unique in itself. The SSB adjusts its calculations all the time. For example, they did so two years ago when emissions of fluorine gases were involved, which had major consequences for emissions. That's the way it is when we're still looking for more knowledge, as the government is, and I also hope that the Green Party representative is for a hunter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1382	I note that the Council of State does not announce any new measures in the revised national budget, but prefers to push the problem ahead to future governments, although he now has the opportunity to do things without the extremists in the Progress Party. The problem is that the revised budget is the last chance for this government to deliver new, relevant climate policy. Although it is uncertain – as the Council of State says – how much greater the Norwegian emissions are due to these failures of the SSB, there is no doubt that they are significantly larger. So why won't the Council of State notify new measures now, if he says he's up for his goals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1387	It is said here that one records that I am not notifying new measures in RNB here and now. After all, it should not come as a shocking news for a big-time representative who is very aware that what is in the revised national budget is being warned when the revised national budget comes and is finished. So I don't think there's any reason to be surprised at that. It's the way we continuously put forward new climate policies. After all, the climate plan is a large, detailed 10-year plan, which is the most offensive and ambitious one ever produced by a Norwegian government. I think, if I were the representative of the Greens' Environment Party, that I would be much more concerned about the government's environmental party that the Greens seem to want to put in place – a Labour Party-Center Party-Registration, which, through that process, made a number of proposals to weaken the climate plan – will be able to meet it. But I can promise that this government is going to meet the climate plan, and we're going to come up with an ever-changing climate policy in the different processes we're going to have in the future. And people know that's going to happen, because that's what we've been doing as long as we have seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1394	Then your case no. 2 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-28.ana.ud56e1408	There is no record available. This way, today's maps are processed. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
