ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e134	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that there will be voting in the case no. 1–6 now initially, and the President therefore asks the representatives to remain in office for a few more minutes. Furthermore, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond noon if necessary. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e213	No one has asked for the floor. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 6 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e224	Case No. 1–6 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 115–118 and 120–121. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. The size will then continue with the debates on today's map and go to case no. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e244	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, six lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e253	I'm going to spend 10 minutes on behalf of the Center Party. On 23 March 2021, the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee examined the Minister of Justice and Defence's presentation to the Stortinget, where she announced that the government would stop the sale of the Norwegian-registered company Bergen Engines AS from Rolls Royce to TMH International AG, which is a Swiss-registered company 100 pst. owned by the Russian registered TMH Group. I would like to thank the Committee for a good and thorough work on this matter. I would also like to thank the Government and the members of the Government for their contributions and cooperation. Bergen Engines is a manufacturer and supplier of e.g. engines and generators for both the civil and military sectors in Norway and several allied countries, including the United States of America. In this case, several issues related to the sale of a Norwegian technology company, such as Bergen Engines, to Russian interests have become known to the Committee. The case is, in fact, about the Russian acquisition of a Norwegian technology company with a major military strategic importance that would be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. The sale would enable a faster build-up of the Russian Navy and Russia’s military capabilities. The sale would also give Russian access to a plot in Bergen with strategically important location, including: related to the entrance to Bergen and Norwegian defence facilities, and it would give Russia access to sensitive technology. The proposed acquisition could result in a Russian attempt to circumvent the export control legislation or the restrictive measures taken by Norway against Russia after 2014 in order to gain access to knowledge and technology of major military strategic importance for Russia in a disguised manner. The Committee held a hearing on the matter on 19 April 2021. Five members of the government, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Industry were then called in, as well as the security services, which were the PST, the Intelligence Service and the National Security Authority. In its examination of the case, the Committee has been committed to clarifying all the facts of the case because it has been difficult to obtain an overview of the way in which the case has been dealt with in the course of the various departments. The Committee has also wanted to get an idea of the importance of the case for national security and, perhaps most importantly, to identify learning points – what can be done to prevent us from getting a similar case in the future. The Committee was given important information during the consultation process. I then want to go over to talk about how the Senterpartie stands in the matter. Together with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the SV, the Centre Party will strongly criticise the government for the management of the Bergen Engines case. During the process, it has become increasingly clear to the Center Party that the case of Bergen Engines and the way in which the government has handled the sale has revealed serious deficiencies in the government’s safety procedures. The government has not had the necessary control over national security and preparedness, in particular in relation to foreign purchases that could threaten national security. We believe it is highly critical and very serious that the government has not had good enough procedures for security work, for the application of the Security Act and for cooperation between the various departments involved. In the course of the case, much different information has also been provided from the government, from various government councils, both to the Storting, to the public and to some of the actors involved, who have contributed to creating confusion in the matter and to creating a ambiguity as to what are the facts. Some of the communication to the Stortinget, especially from the Minister of Defense, has also been misleading and balancing on the borders of what a Council of State can allow itself not to give the Storting the information you are asking for. It is also very critical and very serious that the government in this case has provided poor information to the Stortinget about the government's handling of the case. As I said at the outset, Minister of Justice and Defence Monica Mæland stated on 23 March that the government would stop the sale under the Security Act. At that time the government had known about the sale since 15 December. In the period from 15 December to 23 March, it was said on several occasions that the government would not intervene in the sale. On direct questions from Stortinget about whether the government considered using the Security Act to intervene in the sale, it was not answered in the affirmative, even though the government later came and said that they had still carried on those assessments. The hearing on 19 April produced new information relating to this, and there is in particular one aspect that puts the matter in an even more serious light than before the hearing. It's about what was the reason why the government actually started security work. At the hearing, on questions from the Committee, it was found that the government's safety work was initiated as a result of an external tip to the Ministry of Industry on 11 January, not on the government's own initiative. It is also serious that such an important matter was first taken into consideration because of what has appeared to be a mere coincidence. The Committee has registered that state councils say they would have taken the matter at a later stage anyway, but it is not established when this might have happened. We cannot base national security work on random calls to departments; the Storting must be able to trust that the government has control of these procedures even if they are not contacted by external actors. The role of the Prime Minister has also been a central element of opposition criticism. National security is the primary responsibility of any government and the prime minister is responsible for the government’s security work. It was also found during the hearing that the Prime Minister was not familiar with the sale before this was mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 February, although the government should have carried out safety assessments before this. Nor did the Prime Minister know anything related to the risk of national security until Bergen’s Official Journal began to shed light on these dangers on 21 February, inter alia. related to technology transfer and Russian acquisition of maintenance contracts. The matter was not put on the agenda of the Government Security Committee before the media's searchlight, which is the selection to deal with matters of major security importance to the nation, nor was it discussed in the selection before 2 March, which, after the Committee and the Central Party can understand from the hearing, is the first time the State Councils or State Secretarys represented by the Councils were present in a joint meeting to discuss this matter. The fact that the Prime Minister got information about the importance of this matter for national security through the media and not through his government colleagues or his office reinforces the impression that this matter has not been far ahead of the government's consciousness before the public storm, and it reinforces the impression that the government has lacked control of the matter. This criticism by the majority in the United Kingdom is also reinforced by the fact that the government was fully aware that foreign purchases of, among other things. Strategically important enterprises and property were and are a major safety risk to Norway, especially from Russia. We are well aware of this through the general safety assessments of the secret services. We believe it is important that the matter leads to a review of government security procedures and follow-up of the Security Act in order to prevent a similar situation from occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e285	This case has shown that weak security awareness and lack of responsibilities and cooperation can be a security threat. It is a management responsibility to ensure interaction and coordination. No one took that responsibility. Instead, it created insecurity for employees, for companies and for our common security. The point of safety work is to create security, not uncertainty. The sale of Bergen Engines was stopped because it was not safe to sell, because the defense cannot have a supplier with whom we do not have a security agreement. The sale was stopped because strategic acquisition and investment pose a real risk to information and technology transfer, which poses a threat to Norwegian security. That's why the case was not finished when the conclusion to stop the sale came from the government, because what we're discussing here is not just the concrete example of the planned sale of Bergen Engines, what we're discussing, is how we can be sure in the long term that we have a protection against what's threatening us. This matter is not serious and critical only because an e-mail with notice of sale remained with the department responsible for the Safety Act for one month. It is not serious and critical only because it had to give the Ministry of Industry an external warning before action was taken on a traceable basis. It is not serious and critical only because this was information we first received through the hearing. The matter is not serious and critical only because the Minister of Defence did not fully inform Stortinget about the use of the Security Act when we asked about it. As late as March, he indicated that the Security Act would not apply. It is still difficult to believe that he would. And it is still entirely unanswered to me whether the safety valve paragraph was really to be assessed then, or whether there was something that happened afterwards. Because how is it possible not to mention this to the Storting, whether that's what's going on? The matter is not serious and critical only because an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in miles of facebook wires guaranteed that the sale would be in order, and wrote things like «We have no legal positions to interfere in this sale.» So you're wondering, what's going on here? Is that the coordination that is lacking? Is there a lack of security competence? Or is it simply not right that the Security Act was assessed at the time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a guarantee to the company that the sale would not be stopped? The matter is not serious and critical only because the Bergen Engines location itself makes the factory an interesting intelligence target, because why did it go up for the government as late as February? It's still incomprehensible. The proximity of defence installations poses a risk that the factory may be ‘used for intelligence and sabotage’. There was nothing that happened in February. And that's before you start talking about the technology being produced there, by very good people. That technology is so useful that it turned out to be dangerous if it went astray. It is still completely incomprehensible to me how it alone did not contribute to the company being listed. It could save companies and employees the uncertainty that political Norway has caused them just because they make something too important to lose. Having said that, it is equally incomprehensible that the government has no idea that when a sale is stopped for security reasons, it is a particular responsibility for them to ensure stability and security. When I asked the Minister of Industry in March about how the jobs and the environment of competence at Hordvikneset are to be maintained, she gave what can be classified as a business policy response. It's hopeless, not least for the employees, who put up with a feeling that being for their own job is to take on security vulnerability easily, or vice versa. There are no relationships that should be set up against each other. When the government closed large parts of the country as a result of the pandemic, it was a matter of course trying to help those who had to do the hard work. That of course should also apply here. The approach includes a strong criticism of safety work, interaction and handling of the safety law, because all these examples, in sum, constitute the story of just a weakly anchored security understanding, interaction and handling of the safety law. When the Ministry of Economic Affairs stated that the proposed sale was a matter between two private actors and no department should interfere with, it is an example that the security understanding is not shared by the departments, it is not internalised or coordinated, because, while that opinion came up, it was found in the hearing that this matter was on the government's table and that it was in the process of'mixing in' to use the Ministry of Economic Affairs's terminology. When the opinion is attempted to explain away by a fictional expression such as ‘general commercial policy statement’ and not even ex post, it does not help to raise the impression of government’s work with certainty. Safety work is a management responsibility and structural problems need to be resolved in a holistic manner. Compound threats must also be addressed in a holistic way. When such a major scandal as the government's management of the proposed sale of Bergen Engines occurs, it is not good enough to describe the problem. It is not good enough to say what went wrong, and why the handling was not good. The advantage and point of dealing with this matter in a professional committee responsible for defence is that when strategic buying-in and investment are so clearly referred to as an external threat, it is clear that Storting's responsibility is greater than problem description. I am therefore pleased that the majority joined in on proposals for improvement. To be honest, I don't understand why it's not an overall committee that's behind it either. When the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Economic Affairs have stated that there is room for improvement and that there are aspects of this process from which it is possible to learn, we must believe them and facilitate them to propose how they can do just that. That is why we propose a mapping of security competences in all departments. When all departments are responsible for listing enterprises, it is essential to ensure that everyone has the tools they need to do that job. When there is a warning about something that could threaten our safety, it should lie in everyone's back margin what is right to do. In the statement, the Minister said: ‘The government will consider how to reduce and counteract security challenges in foreign investment, including ensuring that NSM will in future prioritise the development of competences in this area’. This case has clearly shown that it is not just the NSM that needs to develop competence here. We propose a review of the application of the Security Act, carried out by a publicly appointed expert committee, including possible vulnerabilities, responsibilities, status of ministerial listing of establishments to be covered in full or in part by the Security Act. We do that because no one can fully control himself or see their own weaknesses. The government should really view this as an opportunity to fully monitor this so that security gaps can be filled. We propose an evaluation of how security understanding in the departments is established and cooperation between departments is ensured. We need to ensure a long-term, safe and predictable management of Norwegian security and protection against strategic buying-in and investment. And we need to make sure that we agree on what can be a threat and how we should react when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e347	I always listen with interest to the rapporteur, who has shown a firmness in the matter that unfortunately has not provided it with the qualities that the Stortinge should have when it comes to criticising the government. Let me start by saying that it's made a right decision. I don't think the two previous speakers stayed at it. The government, in its resolution, has made a decision on a well-established case on a case of an intrusive nature, and so a decision has been taken with which everyone is satisfied. That's one positive. The second is that what the committee writes in the comments, and the critics, but also what we are together, has clearer than I have ever experienced in the Stortinget, expressed what threat Russia represents to Norway, and that we cannot be careful enough in dealing with international companies that are under the control of Russian interests. I am sure that our security services have noticed this. Future screening of such transactions in search of risks to the influence of hostile states will, after the words that have fallen here today, and what is expressed in the committee position, as I understand having broad party political support. Because it hasn't always been like this. There have been some people here in the Chamber who have had a lot of understanding for Putin, that it was perfectly all right to attack and annex Crimea, and that the sanctions should also end. Now I see the same representatives highlighting it as a particular appeal to the government that there was a country against which there is a penalty, so the world is moving at least in terms of understanding the problem. To this end, it is worth noting that the Committee has now been consulted has received oral presentations in this Chamber, and the statements by the Minister of Justice and Defence and the Minister of Defence have also been well received. No one has criticised the quality of the facts presented by civil servants and cooperative security establishments. No one has questioned the application of the law for a rather intrusive administrative decision by using the new Security Act § 2-5 for the first time. Then it turns out that the criticism is based on the understanding of one single point, namely a claim that the case was discovered by chance. It's the retention of this archimedic point that leads to the violent description of the failure of routines and systems, but as you go closer to the critics, they can't quite point to what it is. And what's so amazing when you read the statement from the hearing is that the underlying security issues – which are not part of the government, but which took hold of this as early as December, the day after this was reported to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – have themselves said that they were notified of the matter in December and started the proceedings immediately, three underlying agencies that operate with certainty: the intelligence service, the police security service and the NSM. They have produced nine reports along the way, and most of these have been graduated. Everything points towards the Government's security committee, which then has to make an opinion about this. These matters are just starting at the intelligence service level. They don't start in government, because our agencies are, like the other administration, bound by the law, the law that the Storting should know, because it existed in our period. The Security Act, previously, had no provision like § 2-5, for which everyone is now eloquent and enthusiastic, who could stop a transaction like this. When it was then about the department's assessment of this, it was often with reference to the listing of the general transfers of companies, while we know that § 2-5 is of the Storting itself provided that only used as a valve determination when there are special conditions. That is why it has been given to describe what it may contain of activities. No company transfers are mentioned in particular, but there is a capture provision. I therefore believe that the criticism from the opposition is based on a misconception of what caused the case, and I think it is strange that you are sitting and hearing these services explain, and then you do not even comment on the information you have received in the hearing. I'll come back to it in another post, because I might have asked in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e364	The representative shall receive comments later if he so requests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e369	One of the least troubling features of the policy is that the sitting government can never admit a mistake, as if it is completely infallible and any thought is already thought, and that the opposition, no matter where on the political scale it comes from, is erroneous, based on ignorance or populism. Should there be a government shift to the harvest, we will experience exactly the same thing from the first day. It's motivating and daunting. In this case, however, there is no doubt: the government had no control, it did not know which leg it was on, and all pointed at each other. The consequence was that national security was not ensured. The opposition and the Official Journal of Bergen stopped a sale of advanced engine technology to a Russian company controlled by Russian oligarchs. It's documented, and there's no doubt about it. The most important thing about this case is of course that the sale was actually stopped. I agree with my colleague, Mr Tetzschner. At the same time, it should be a lesson for every government that the most important thing is not in itself to defend its own way of acting, but to make the system better, so that it does not happen again. This conclusion reached by the majority could be unnecessary if the government had immediately said it had made a mistake, but it is too humiliating for this government. It cannot admit errors. That's why the position in the main hall is also sitting here defending something that is completely impossible to defend. The majority then have no other choice than to adopt a strong criticism of the government's handling of the case. Something else would have been to neglect our responsibilities as a watchman to the executive. I want to mention some relationships – twelve relationships, to be precise: The Prime Minister first learned about the matter when she read about it in the Official Journal of Bergen on 4 February, after the government had known about the matter for more than two months without doing anything that indicated that they understood the matter seriously. Rolls-Royce confirmed to the Government on 12 April that both the transaction process and knowledge transfer to TMH had been suspended. This means that the knowledge transfer took place for three months after the government had been notified of the potential sale. Despite this clear message from Rolls-Royce, the government continues to claim that no safety-rated information was shared with TMH, i.e. that «due diligence» – which had been going on for several months – had concerned everything but technology until 12 April. It's completely impossible. It doesn't work that way. Rolls-Royce has itself admitted that they shared technology and information with TMH until 12 April. It's not from the government, it's from Rolls-Royce, and then they took a break. There is no common understanding of what national security means in practice, what lies within the very concepts of security and national security. That's what the majority of the Storing wants to be clear about. We want to be clear about what security is, and how security is defined. For my part, I informed the Minister of Defense under hand on 10 February, without anyone taking any action – again because the government did not know how to act, at least not the Minister of Defence. When the Minister of Defense gets information under hand, so that you can stop the sale, so that the Minister of Defense doesn't have to be humiliated, like one does in the Chamber here, then you mumble back and say that, yes, the government is aware of this, and so it goes two months before you actually do anything, just because the opposition on the Storting doesn't know everything. That's exactly why. But sometimes we actually know more than the government, and in this context at least I knew more than the government, of several different sources. The head of intelligence stressed during the hearing that they had already prepared a report to the Ministry of Justice on 18 January, which did not put the break button on it, but asked for a more comprehensive report. If you get a report that way to the Ministry of Justice, you can't bring it back and say, can you give us some more information? Then you have to put the Pause button on and ask for more information. It wasn't done. The parties to the Government refer in the nomination to an opinion of the Prime Minister: ‘Yes, the government has control of the matter. Therefore it has become a good...’ – and then it is unclear what she says, dot-dot-dot, it says in the record – ‘But you should have reacted at an earlier time.’ Who is ‘man’ in this case? And on the other hand, ‘It would probably be a matter independent of this’ – what is ‘this’? – ‘for there are several points where this information would come in’. What points? And: «as the E-Manager said earlier in the hearing today, a separate follow-up track related to export control matters, and it was a perception that this matter would come within a few days afterwards.» What view? So this is a record from the hearing. What view? What are these terms? It's completely unclear. Then you become a kind of teflon state minister, who can say a whole lot of things without going down concretely and pointing to it. I want to know what all of these words mean. It's cryptic, approximate and completely meaningless. The Secretary of Defense had flogged comments at several times about engines such as the Volkswagen pickup truck, but suddenly came to other thoughts a few days later, then it is advanced engine technology. Then it's okay to be a little calm the first time, before you get little more information, and then see that this is serious and engine technology. The State Secretary of the NFD spoke across his own council. It's pretty special. The point of exchange rates held by the positioning parties in the notes is completely, completely meaningless. When Rolls-Royce is given the opportunity to sell a company, there is an alert to the stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but it is clear that it is subject to the actual execution of the sale. So you could say that the government's differing views along the way made it possible to understand that the sale would actually be carried out. The Government Parties conclude: ‘These members stress that the Prime Minister here does not refer to an earlier reaction by the government, but that proceedings in the departments should have begun at an earlier date.’ The government shouldn't have started earlier, but those who work in the departments should have started earlier. I actually thought that those who work in the departments work for the government, and that the government is the top man in charge, but according to the records, it's not like that. The Prime Minister stated in the hearing that one can imagine a solution whereby the refusal of the export licence in the last five years is to be routinely subject to an assessment of Section 10 of the Security Act, which will better capture a possible circumvention of the export legislation. No, it won't. It will not, because there are cross-ownerships across the board in the defence industry – also for friendly nations. Most of them are friendly nations. This was an exceptional case. That's how the defence industry works today. There is nothing wrong with it, but it is because these countries can also cooperate on the defence of each other's countries, preferably through NATO or in Europe. Then comes the exchange on Messenger between a trade director in the U.D. and the counterparty in the Rolls-Royce. So this communication was given at a lower level, without the Minister for Foreign Affairs being aware of it. It hasn't gone into what's actually being said. On December 11th it is said from the U.D., and I shall read it up: ‘Hi! And choose the last years were not wasted – I love that really loved his RR time. [[sacrifice of the U.D.]] And I definitely know that he has the greatest admiration for you. And you're missing. Pls get in touch about the issue at any time. Looking forward to seeing you too as soon as circumstances allow for it. [[initial J]] Take care. Love, In other words, there has been a person here who has worked in Rolls-Royce in advance. Why haven't you gone in and looked at it? It's quite serious, because there's talk of a trade director and an exchange, but what's actually being said in this exchange, hasn't been looked at, and that was said on December 11. There is a lot of things here that the government has done wrong, and that it has no control over. You've come to an end. That criticism the opposition shows here, the government should be humble enough to accept and say that no, we didn't coordinate properly, we didn't know which leg we were on, it came to the wrong source, we didn't know enough about this. The Minister of Justice may have made the best impression here, but the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister made a complete effort in the hearing. It goes to say when one sits in the Storting: it was a wasted effort, and it was a teflon minister of state who didn't tell the truth, or who used words that could be misunderstood, all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e434	Working on this matter has been a special experience. A government that has stated that they have security and preparedness as their main concern has proved to fail in the follow-up of promises that go completely into the heart of that particular issue. The management of the Bergen Engines case has been characterised by a striking lack of coordination and confusing and sometimes – in practice at least – misleading communication to the public and, in part, to the Stortinget. We've seen that the system that's been built up to counteract strategic buying-in is not good enough. That the purchase of Bergen Engines came on the government’s agenda – and this is a core point – does not seem to have been the government’s own profit. Instead, it appears to be random. There is a serious system failure which makes it clear today that the risk of simply not being able to detect it, and therefore not being able to act in time to address important national safety concerns, was present to the greatest extent. So this is happening in a situation where unwanted foreign purchases have been raised for several years by security services as an increasingly topical threat. No one can say that they were not very aware of that problem. That is why the sharp criticism that is coming today from the majority of the Grand Duchy is most justified. It comes to the government as a whole because the responsibility for managing national security lies with the government as a whole. It's serious for the government, it's serious for the Prime Minister, who had just this, better preparedness and better coordination of preparedness, like fantasizing when she became prime minister. Then I believe that the Storting should – and we have done so – pay attention to the fact that the government admits at least a bit on the road. It makes a proper deal with words like there's room for improvement and opportunities for learning and stuff. I wouldn't pick those words. Instead, I would choose the words that the majority has used and that I think that is the basis for. But I hope that although it is a little difficult for the government parties and the government to fully acknowledge the seriousness of the matter, I hope that what is said about recognition, improvement and learning will actually lead to real processes. It is in confidence that the Storting does not go further in the decision we are making today. The size has clear expectations for the follow-up and takes control of that follow-up. This concerns both the detailed orders we have from internal review in the departments of procedures, and the public sample work commissioned by the Stortinget, which needs to look at both what needs to be done to ensure that this type of lack of coordination and randomness does not arise again, and whether further changes to the Security Act are necessary. A central question is why Bergen Engines was not initially listed, for example: We still need – and we can get back to that in the line change – clarity on some issues that the government has not answered clearly yet, for example. when the issue of technology transfer became at the heart of this matter, when the issue of location came on the agenda. It's important first of all to be able to get to the bottom of what's failed. Finally, I want to say something short about the future of Bergen Engines. It is a very important industrial enterprise; it is important industrial workplaces; it is an important part of the development of future-oriented Norwegian technology. Once the government has slept in the hour in this case, they have also created problems for the company and for the jobs. Therefore, it is also important to stress that we will keep the government responsible for it in the follow-up, and we believe that the government must act to take care of the jobs and ensure that Bergen Engines also has a long-term committed industrial owner for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e447	Norway’s position and location at a large and strong neighbour mean that we need a clear and predictable government security policy. The defense is set to guard our borders, our territory and our national values. In addition, Norway is dependent on having a good and trusting relationship with our stronger allies in NATO. In this context, Norway must act as a reliable actor with strong requirements for the management of the community and cooperation. We must maintain a good and open relationship with our allies and have standards that create trust, predictability and cohesion. This work includes intelligence and the exchange of information. This case was up today in an example that, of course, needs to be seen in a large context because it affects several pages. The case of any purchase of the Norwegian-registered company Bergen Engines AS from Rolls-Royce to TMH International AG is an example of our safety net and political system complying with people’s demands for security and security of administration. The incident was caught early in December and January. It was reported and examined internally and graded. It involved several departments and departments and was, of course, a challenge and a test in several ways. But the government stopped the sale, and an unfortunate threat to our country and our allied security interests were stopped. It is all pleased, although there was diverging vision along the way in the process. That the opposition needed consultation with five government councils, the PST, the Intelligence Service and the NSM on a proposal from the Central Party – even after a presentation in the Stortinget and a graduated meeting of the extended Defence Committee, told me that everything is possible in an election campaign is just a shudder of doubt and distrust in front of it – perhaps as much to get publicity as to get the case informed. The additional information provided in the second round did not provide any more useful evidence, nor did it provide any basis for the case. And everyone is satisfied with the government's wise decision. But unless otherwise, we were able to try out the functionality of the Security Act, and several departments and agencies did a job of lighting and acting according to the law's intentions. Several of the state councils in the hearing said that there were learning points. Yeah, that's good. Bergen Engines AS is a manufacturer and supplier of e.g. engines and generators for both the civil and military sectors in Norway and several allied countries, including the United States of America. It was important to stop the sale, because Bergen Engines has technology and competences that would have a major strategic impact on Russia's capabilities, which would thus clearly be contrary to both Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. Russia has had challenges in accessing this equipment production since the introduction of the western sanctions against the country in 2014. The proposed purchase could result in attempts to circumvent the export control code or our restrictive measures in order to access knowledge and technology of major military strategic importance to Russia in a disguised manner. In addition, a sale would have resulted in a large property strategically located near the entrance to Bergen with significant defence installations being traded and thus weakening the security of Defence and the country. Of course, it is reassuring that, in a thorough political process, we become familiar with all aspects of the matter. The case showed us that we have a loyal and good office and democracy, where we have now become familiar with all aspects of the matter. It has an impact on the general sense of security and national security. The case has revealed learning points, and fortunately we have had such events. There is every reason to believe that this matter is being followed carefully by both the Allied and the Russian sides. And there is indeed a broad political consensus that the decision was right, from the very beginning, even though it was followed by solid parliamentary exercises. The decision is in line with our ally's cooperation with NATO. At the same time, the decision has a transparent political side that is decided in a friendly democracy, and it itself gives a clear message to our neighbouring country, Russia, which does not provide a basis for imbalance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e472	: This was really a pretty simple thing. Oligarchs from Russia with close ties to Putin would buy up Bergen Engines and take over the industry that we need in Norway, which could also make important information that was sensitive and affected Norway's security possible in the Kremlin. In December the government was notified of the purchase. They could easily resolve the matter by putting down the foot for the purchase and ensuring the continued operation of Bergen Engines, in line with the country's security interests. However, since both the Minister of Defence and others had fallen asleep in the mail, rolled and went up for weeks and months to the tone of various state councils' assurances that Norway would not use the Security Act and intervene. Thus, this case became a threat, both to the security of the state and to important jobs at Bergen Engines and to the unique environment of competence represented by these employees. The majority agree with the Committee, which says that it is highly critical and very serious that the government has not had good enough procedures for safety work and for foreign purchases that could threaten national security interests, and that insufficient information has also been provided to the Government on the management of the Bergen Engines case. In matters relating to defence, security and foreign policy, we see that the Stortinget is increasingly involved in the irresponsible secrecy of the government, which is being abused – not to protect Norway’s security, but to escape responsibility and open criticism. In this case, the government, voluntarily or involuntarily, has also spun a network of confusing misinformation and contradictions from different departments, which instead of giving clear answers, point to each other. One council gave one answer, so to speak, to be contradicted by another, or as was the case with Frank Bakke Jensen: On February 23rd, he compared the technology that the Russians wanted to buy with a Volkswagen pickup and more than suggested that a Russian purchase was unproblematic. Two days later he said the opposite, that this was about high-technology for complex ships that had to be carefully assessed, and finally the safety law became necessary to use anyway. Of course, it is very serious, as the majority of the Committee concludes, that the government has provided the Storting with insufficient information, to the public and to the actors involved, but it is a pattern that this government either misinforms or misuses access to secrecy, especially in matters of defence, foreign and security policy. It is bad enough that it took three months to figure out that Bergen Engines would not be sold to Russian oligarchs – here the government has played Russian ruleet with Norwegian security and with the jobs in Bergen Engines and the skills they hold. Red has a policy to correct this, and we support the proposals of the majority. An independent review of the government's application of the Security Act in case of purchase is absolutely necessary. In addition, we propose that the Stortinget give the government a clear marching ground to take the necessary steps to ensure the workplaces and the environment of expertise at Bergen Engines, for example. by using the country’s ownership power in the Kongsberg Group or by other means to ensure the safety of Norway. Last but not least: uncontrolled use of private contractors, suppliers and subcontractors in the defence sector is in breach of Norwegian security. Now the government has to listen to the defense's employees and trust-elects, who warn against this, and put an end to the snitch privatisation of the defense before we get a new Bergen Engines case with perhaps even worse results in the capture. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e489	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e495	I have read with great interest the position of the Foreign and Defence Committee on the proposed sale of Bergen Engines. The impression is that the government does not take national security seriously, that the treatment has taken too long, and that the government does not comply with its information obligation to the Storting. I'll cancel that. I believe that this case shows that the government takes national security seriously. The sale of Bergen Engines was stopped — using the Safety Act — because it was considered necessary to ensure national security. To make such an in-depth decision, we had to have a thorough and good process and justification. This is the first time the government has stopped a purchase on the basis of Section 2-5 of the Security Act. We have now opened the door to these kinds of cases, and it is therefore possible that the next time will be able to handle them more quickly. However, there is nothing I can guarantee. We don't know what the next case looks like, we don't know how the next case will meet us, and the reason for this is that strategic buy-in is very complex in nature. It is therefore necessary to provide both services and departments with sufficient time to make sound and thorough assessments before a decision is taken. So to the point of information obligation: I take my information duty towards the Storting seriously. I did, too, when I answered Christensen and Enger Mehl's questions in February. I realized that my answers were perceived to be wrong, so I made it clear that we evaluated all the instruments in the Security Act, in my reply to the representative Christensen four days later. I believe that the obligation to provide information here is very central, but it is also a dilemma in this kind of case that one should share continuously and partly highly classified information in a matter where the government has not yet made a decision. That was also the case in this case. Therefore, I ask for understanding that not all information could be shared openly. So I'm happy that the Storting concludes like the government. This was a matter in which we had to make a decision to stop the sale. I record that no one disagrees with the fact that that decision has to be well justified for many reasons, and I record that there is a total collapse that agrees that these kinds of issues are complex and important for national security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e511	We have been here many times, and we have written a lot back and forth on this matter. But what I'm asking is, when the Council of State is going through the information obligation of the Storting, there is one thing that still hangs, because the questions he refers to in his statement, which came from me and the representative of Enger Mehl, were about the use of the Security Act. We asked about this independently of each other, in different ways, but what we were wondering about was the extent to which the government wanted to implement the Security Act, and how this matter was addressed against security policy interests. In its first reply, State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen writes that this company is not listed, and thus the Security Act would not apply. Let's do it. He doesn't write: but we evaluate the safety laws in other ways, we're working on this in other ways, we're going to go into this in a different way. How can the Council of State point out that the obligation to provide information has been complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e516	Just based on what I treated in my post. When I replied, we worked with the values of the defense, and for the values of the defense, it was not possible to use the Security Act, it did not apply here. Bergen Engines was not listed under the Safety Act, because they did not deal with the kind of information that made it that it was. Then I should have added that we worked further on the matter and saw it in the light of the other paragraphs of the Security Act, but just when I replied, we worked with the values of the Defense, and that was in the light of the answer given. That's why I also corrected the answer to Christensen four days later, to show that we made use of the entire Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e521	This is a game changer in this case. This is the first time Frank Bakke-Jensen has said, "I've done something wrong, or could do something else." For no later than 9 March and no later than at the hearing, Frank Bakke-Jensen said: I see no reason for self-criticism, I have done nothing wrong, I could not do anything else. What State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen is now saying is that he should inform the Storting in another way. We've been meaning that for a long time. Therefore, we believe that that disclosure obligation was not fully complied with, because when the Storting asks, it is the responsibility of a Council of State to – fully – disclose this. In the reply he sent, correctly four days later, to me, he did not write: I want to correct. So this is completely new. That's great, but it's new. But does that mean that State Council Frank Bakke-Jensen now goes back to his statement to NTB on 9 March that he does not believe that there is any reason for self-criticism in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e526	The opinion was whether I thought there were many errors in this case. In fact, I do not believe that a lot of mistakes have been made. I believe that I could have communicated more precisely with Stortinget in those answers. Then I record that in the public conversation it is also mixed up, because when I have talked about the values of the defense, the need for a new supplier to the Coast Guard and the Defence Vessel if Bergen Engines is sold, this is the matter we have been working on. We've concluded that it's completely possible to do that. So it's not like that, for the defence ship, it was a matter of national security. We could find alternative solutions. We'd solved that part. Then the Security Act does not apply to it, and then we worked on it. I believe that it is an image that this is a complex matter that needs to be worked on in many fields, and that has been worked on in a lot of fields. And then, of course, this is how I have communicated unpresistingly to Stortinget, and I'm at least very happy that I've got it corrected now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e533	In a debate under the auspices of the Minister of Defence on 23 February, the Minister of Defence received the question of not being able to see how the engines of our marine vessels have been connected, would be of great interest to Russia. The Minister of Defence replied that ‘The Home Protection uses the Volkswagen pickup, the engine in the Volkswagen is just like the civil one. And the engines in the coastguards without me too much knowledge of it, whether it's common civilian means of propulsion, no, I don't know if it's critical to national security that Russian industrial interests get insight into how this works here." Two days later there was a new dialog meeting directed by View. Then the Minister of Defense said about whether this could be controversial: "Now there's no Saab engine we're talking about. It is high-technology.’» What happened between February 23 and 25, which led to a sudden change of vision for the Minister of Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e542	We're talking about two different things. It's very good to say about our Coast Guard, but the diesel engines that are in the Coast Guard are not very complicated. When we discussed two days later, we discussed engine control for a marine vessel, i.e. other technology. The question from the representative in the first debate was actually about the maintenance of the Coast Guard engines, and the Coast Guard engines are not very advanced. That is also why we were able to clarify in a relatively short time that we would be able to move the maintenance of that type of machinery to other suppliers – so we did not have to apply the safety law in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e549	By selling Bergen Engines, Russia would have access to the technology that a user, whether it was to Coast Guard or it was to the Navy. It's a pretty interesting explanation the Minister of Defense comes along, and I almost have to smile, because in that discussion it wasn't about whether it was Coast Guard or other parts of the Maritime Defense. It was about Russian access to the technology in the company. Then to find out that since the Coast Guard was mentioned in one question and not in the other, this was suddenly a completely different matter, is to take everything out of context. This was about the hall of Bergen Engines and whether it was controversial. It wasn't controversial on the 23rd. Then it was like Volkswagen. On the 25th, it was all of a sudden harder than Saab. I can't tell the difference between Volkswagen and Saab's engines, but what happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e554	I propose that the representative go back and look at the question in that debate. It is a fact that when we look at the values of the defense, it was – if Bergen Engines had been sold – affordable to secure the values of the defense, that is, our coastguard ships, the supplies that Bergen Engines had. When we looked at it in a security policy perspective, when we got other reports and more knowledge about it, yes, we had to make other assessments. This is also why the sale was stopped according to section 2-5 and not according to section 1-2 or section 1-3, precisely because we had no reason for it. We had to have a different reason. And I feel that it's an important and correct reason that this whole house agrees with us, the technology transfer. But just when we evaluated the supplies Bergen Engines had to the Defense, it wasn't of such a sensitive nature that it had reached the national security level. It was not necessary to stop that sale because of it, and therefore we went on to assess other reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e561	It's interesting to listen to the Minister of Defense. The response to not taking self-criticism is almost childish. That's what you experienced in kindergarten, what they said: No, I didn't do anything wrong. I didn't do anything wrong, I. That's how you talk at the Council of State level. I think it is embarrassing that you cannot admit that you have made a mistake. I have been told by several people that there have been strong reactions in professional environments in the defense of this possible sale, which was then stopped by Stortinget. Then it is that the professional soldiers rarely participate in debates on the defence. Why do you think it's like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e571	First, I must be allowed to make an apology from this pulpit. When Tybring-Gjedde came to me with a note with Bergen Engines and said that this was a matter of sale, if we were aware of it, I said: Yes, I am aware of the matter; we are working with it, and more I cannot say now. That I mumbled, I apologize for not being clear that time. Then I find the question of why defence personnel don't participate in that kind of debate, a little strange. I feel that we have a high ceiling to participate in debates. I feel that defence professionals are present in many rooms and are clear about their opinions in these kinds of debates. But when we're going to make these assessments, we're going to use the institutions we have to make these assessments. We're using the law we have to make these assessments. So here it was first the values of the defense, and then we took the security policy assessments gradually. And then we came to the right decision. I think that's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e582	The Committee has proposed six lines, in which case the President shall refer to the Committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e587	It has actually been noticeable in several instances that the self-criticism is a little further inside the defence minister than with other government representatives. One important reason why the bulk of the population, although we have gone a long way in this matter, has not gone any further, is that, among other things, The Minister of Justice has been very clear that the government here sees that not everything has gone well, and that you have to learn from it. But when you listen to the Minister of Defense, it often doesn't sound like that. Therefore, the Minister of Defence will have a chance to show clearly that the majority of the population has been right, by telling us what the Minister of Defence believes is the basis for taking self-criticism both on his own behalf and on behalf of the entire government. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e592	Let me read it a little bit from my post one more time. I said that this was the first time the government stopped a settlement based on the Safety Act § 2-5. We have now opened the door to these kinds of things. It is therefore possible that the next case could be dealt with more quickly. That, I said, however, I cannot guarantee, simply because the next case may be so complex that it may be difficult to recognize. This is a dynamic field that needs to be developed all the time. We learn about these kinds of things every day. In the defence sector, we have 500 contracts that we have to deal with. We have provided a safety permit to Stortinget, where we explain how complex this is. We are now implementing the Security Act in all fields. Many jobs to discover what is a fundamental national function, where our wound points are. We learn something every day. If I don't sound humble enough in this case complex, I apologize for that, and then I'm going to tighten up in that field. But anyone who gets responsibility for this field will discover that here we learn something new every day. Then it is important that we have a good law. We've shown that we have, and then we're working on the complexity of these things in the future. So I'm going to make it milder, more sensitive and more sensitive, so that the representative gets satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e601	With that, the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e606	The decision of the Foreign and Defence Committee on the proposed sale of Bergen Engines gives the impression that the government is not taking national security seriously. Of course, I do not think that is right, and I can assure you that the government is taking the safety work very seriously. Implementation of the Security Act is currently under way and the departments are working on it within their responsibilities on the basis of a common overall progress plan coordinated by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. An overview of the so-called listed establishments, as the Stortinget requires, will just emerge as a result of this work. During 2021 all departments shall have notified to the NSM their basic national functions, activities essential and essential for these functions and dependencies to others in order to ensure that these functions are performed. The decision to stop the sale was correct. On the other hand, using the Security Act in a completely legitimate commercial transaction between two private foreign companies is also very intrusive. Then we have to have a thorough and good reason. It is not the case that the media have brought the matter forward and linked it up to the national safety perspective. The government took sufficient time and time to assess the whole of the matter in a national security perspective from mid-January until the sale was stopped by a decision of the Council of State on 26 March. As was said in both the presentation and the hearing, the government has identified more points of learning in the matter, and for the sake of order, I used the words ‘and I take criticism’ both in the presentation and during the hearing in the committee. These learning points are now actively implementing. Of course, we will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a response to what Stortinget asks for in the setting. At the same time, the government has mentioned in the Single European Act on social security that we are working systematically to meet the challenges that could result from just foreign investment. These include legislative work, improving overviews and statistics and international cooperation. We've taken concrete and important steps. Among other things, NSM has been identified as the national contact point for the screening of foreign investment. Thus, Norway does not lag behind the work of other countries in this area and actively cooperates with both the EU and selected other countries in its implementation work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e624	I would like to take the opportunity to commend the Council of State Monica Meland for her handling this matter. Because that's her way of going into the matter, her way of answering the Storting, her way of giving a signal that you want to have a clean-up and you want to look at improvement points and make changes, which makes it possible to have a security that there will actually be changes that will allow us to have a long-term management of Norwegian security policy. I appreciate that. I'm not going to ask Monica Meland when she discovered where Bergen is, but I wonder when the location of Bergen Engines was viewed in a security perspective, because it didn't come out very well in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e631	I thank you for the feedback, and I can assure you that I discovered Bergen that the Lord's year 1968, when I was born in Sandviken. I experience that the services – and those who have done this job – were assigned on 13 January to look at the situation in a whole. From the moment they considered this to be a control matter, they were assigned to assess this in relation to the national safety perspective. Then I perceive that they made a total assessment. It was linked to the values of the defense, it was tied up with the buyer, it was tied up with the country to which the buyer belongs, what knowledge they have, and it was tied up with what technology it was, and also the strategic location. So I understand that is a job that was done from 13 January, and that was collected in the reports we received.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e638	In his post, the Council of State said that she believed it was used reasonable time after the middle of January. My question concerns what happened before the middle of January. It is incomprehensible to me how an alert can lie for so long without working on it, from mid-December to January, because that is the period of time to which there is a great deal of uncertainty in this case. It was an external warning to the Ministry of Industry that put pressure on this case. What are the theories of how an e-mail can be located in the department responsible for the follow-up to the Security Act, for so long, until an external notice arrives at the table in another department?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e645	It is in this area that I take criticism. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. We got a warning. It was not followed up. It's not going to happen. And then you can look for an explanation of that. I think the main explanation was that we didn't have systems for communications related to companies that weren't subject to the Security Act, and about something that was initially perceived as a matter of export control regulation, because that was the perception the services had, that was the perception the recipient had in the ministry. So the explanation is simply that you perceived this as being a different matter than what it was. It could happen. That shouldn't happen, but it can happen. It's not going to happen again, because one of the learning points -- and that's very important -- is that we've just put systems in place for companies that we don't know about and for which we didn't have systems. That system is now in place, and that's an important learning point from this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e651	During the hearing, the Minister of Justice was the first Council of State to meet, and then the Minister of Industry was next. The Minister of Justice was very honest, both during the presentation and during the hearing, that the government did not start the security work until January, that orders were then started and sent to the services, which resulted in reports from the E-service, the NSM and the PST. But it is not understandable why the Minister of Justice did not tell us what was the reason why the government actually started. The warning to the Ministry of Economic Affairs was completely unknown to the Committee before the Minister of Industry had a question about it. She was asked about the warning that they were getting started. I asked, was that the warning from the U.D.? Then she said, "No, it was a phone call from the Department Council." Why did the Minister of Justice not inform the Committee of that in his part of the hearing, what was the background to the fact that the government actually started?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e658	I'm a little surprised at what I've seen associated with a debate on this. I think I said three times in my post that we received new information. I also said that the information contained the word «Marjata», and I said that there was a meeting between three ministerial councils associated with this. And if the case rapporteur asked me, as she asked the Minister of Industry, she would of course get a supplementary answer to this, to the extent that I could do it in an open meeting. But there was new information. They were uncertain, they were unclear, but they contained the word «Marjata» and it meant that a work was started. Then I have also said that there were other information during this period. There was a meeting point between several departments, in a follow-up to the e-mail sent in December, which meant that Bergen Engines would be on the agenda. There were also other sources along the way, which is not uncommon. So I informed the committee that it was new information that «Marjata» was used, and I believe I have informed the matter as well as I could.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e665	In the course of the case, it has also been shown from the government that one would in any case have taken hold of it at some point, because the new information came continuously after one started working on the matter. Some of the criticism from the opposition is that you cannot rely on an outside warning to get a security job started, and I believe that the government agrees. However, I still have no clarity as to whether or not the work would have been started if the notice to the Ministry of Economic Affairs had not arrived on 11 January. Would it have happened a few days later? Would it have been a month? Can the Minister of Justice say something about when additional alerts were received that could have initiated a procedure related to the safety assessments, had you not received that call on 11 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e672	If I'm going to start with the beginning, what we're getting criticism for is that we haven't had routines for a matter we've never dealt with before. It's a criticism I've taken. These are the routines that we're now going to put in place. I also believe that we did not spend too long. One has to remember that we then – related to companies that we know well and that are subject to the Security Act – have a deadline of 60 days. Here we used 65 working days. So I mean, we didn't spend too long, but we could get started faster. Then the representative asked me to wonder what would happen, as I also thought you would do in the setting when you stated that we would not do a job if we did not get an alert. I think there are good reasons to assume that this could happen, because there was a meeting point between the agencies that had sent alerts in December, where Bergen Engines was on the agenda. There was other information, other sources of information, but I think that speculation should be too good for us. We started it, the sale was stopped, and I believe we did not spend too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e679	I want to commend the Minister of Justice both for taking criticism and, not least, for taking action in the aftermath. This is an example of follow-up. Rolls-Royce reported on 12 April that they had closed, or put on hold, due diligence, i.e. several months after the government became aware of this possible sale. This means that technology transfer and other forms of transmission, naturally, continued until 12 April. To date, the government has refused any technology transfer to TMH. It's very unlikely that the government is right about that. Has the government received evidence from Rolls-Royce that no material technology has been transferred to TMH during that period until 12 April?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e686	Here, I must, and will, rely on our services, the information they have. They have gone into the matter thoroughly and had close contact with Rolls-Royce and Bergen Engines. They clearly say, both to us and to you at the hearing, that they perceive that there is no transfer of technology of importance in this matter. It had come too short. This process was going to go through this whole year, and we paused on March 18th, if I remember correctly. I'm based on the information I get from those who have gone into this. There is no transfer of technology of importance. It's very good and means we got to stop this in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e691	I would like to go back to the Minister of Justice so far in his first reply in the line change, which went on with routines. The sale was caught up because Rolls-Royce announced it, and they were not obliged to do so. The Minister of Justice confirmed this in reply to questions from SV on 7 May, and there are questions about what would have happened if Rolls-Royce had not notified. I'm not going to challenge the Council of State to counter-actual history here, but it's still interesting to ask that question: what would happen then? And what must be done, either with the Security Act itself or with the procedures to reduce that vulnerability, i.e. to ensure that all relevant companies and owners are obliged to notify in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e696	I think there are two things that are absolutely essential here. One is the work we are doing, which we hope will soon promote for the Storting, namely the revision of the Security Act. It is an extension of the obligation to notify to enterprises which are not subject to law but which nevertheless hold values of national interest. It is difficult to balance because it is demanding for companies to have this kind of relationship with the Safety Act. But that's one of the things I think is quite important, that we expand the horizon for who's going to report. The second relates to procedures for companies which are not governed by law. We now have those procedures in place, so that messages and information are not captured. We need systems to coordinate it in a good way. We haven't done this before. It is a big and serious decision to stop a sale between two parties. Therefore, we need to be sure about the way we work on this, and I believe that this matter has shown us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e703	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e708	The first time the Prime Minister was asked about this matter in Stortinget, she said that the government was quite humble about the need to look at coordination and process. I think that was an important recognition, because the Bergen Engines case reveals the government's inability to coordinate work to ensure the security of the nation. That is why I believe that the hearing was right, because I believe that it was a prerequisite for meland to now say that she is addressing this matter. I must say, I am very surprised at the contributions of the Christian People's Party to this Chamber, where one of the closest people says that this hearing was unnecessary. I think openness is a prerequisite for clearing up these kinds of issues. Governance, coordination and coordination are important, and it has been one of the most important issues for the Right, they have said. But this case shows that this work is not in place. There's a lot left to do. This case was about pulling the emergency brake in the Safety Act, § 2-5, because the sale according to the government’s own statement ‘would have had a great military strategic significance’ and ‘would be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests’. In order to avoid using this emergency brake and take the case up to the King of State Council, and in order to create predictability for business, all government councils must do their job of listing which companies and other businesses are to be fully or partly covered by the provisions of the Security Act, such as: ownership control. This listing is clearly mentioned in the Safety Act § 2-1. The apology that the Safety Act is from 2018 and is new does not work at all, because the 1998 Safety Act also had this requirement for listing, so this is nothing new. The hearing also showed that the government did not want to list too many companies, because this could lead to fewer companies submitting tenders to the Defence. The Prime Minister was concerned that ‘new reporting obligations do not become a disincentive to export or deliver to the Defence’. So you don't want to list too many companies. That's understandable. It is important, however, that the desire for a free market and for more tenders do not govern safety work. Here we've seen changes in recent years. The government proposed a few years ago to sell itself into the Kongsberg Group, from 50 to 34 p.m. This would mean opening up foreign majority ownership to a very important defence company. Fortunately, this was stopped. Our Security Services — the Intelligence Service, the Police Security Service and the National Security Authority — now clearly warn that strategic investment from foreign countries affects national security interests. It's important. It was a clear message from the three security services when they gathered their threat assessments in February of this year, in the middle of the Bergen Engines case and a few weeks before the Right State Secretary in the Ministry of Economic Affairs said that the sale of Bergen Engines was a commercial matter in which the government should neither interfere nor interfere. So here we have to change the focus. We are in a new situation, as our security services point to. In the past, there has been a lot of ideological discussion about privatisation in the defence between, among others. The Working Party and the Right. National security interests show that we need to raise this issue at a higher level, see what's in the nation's interest, and not mix it with ideological skyscrapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e733	Much has already been said in this matter, and more is certain, but the decisive and undeniable point here is that the Storting is in agreement that the government has made a quite right decision to stop the purchase of Bergen Engines, and on the basis of this, I believe that the opposition's criticism may seem somewhat exaggerated. At the heart of the matter is that on 18 March the government concluded that it had sufficient information to decide that the sale of Bergen Engines to TMH had to be stopped – this in order to avoid endangering national security interests. The government therefore instructed Rolls-Royce, through the Royal Resolution of 26 March, to stop the sale of Bergen Engines AS to Transmashholding Group. On the same day, the government suspended any transfer of shares, assets, property and industrial or technological information or other rights in Bergen Engines or its subsidiary to TMH. There are in particular four issues that the government says have been highlighted in the resolution, and which I think it is worth staying by. The first is that the technology Bergen Engines owns, and the engines they produce, would have a major strategic impact on Russia and strengthened Russia's military capabilities in a way that would clearly be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. The second is that although Bergen Engines’ products and technology are not covered by the export controls, Russia has had significant challenges in accessing engine technology since the introduction of the western sanctions against the country in 2014. The third is that the proposed purchase could lead to attempts to circumvent the export control legislation or the restrictive measures taken by Norway against Russia in order to gain access to knowledge and technology of major military strategic importance to Russia in a protected way. Exports of the technologies and engines to Russia would be contrary to Norwegian and Allied security policy interests. The government has taken self-criticism as to the external communication on the matter. It should be noted, however, that it is not possible to communicate openly about all aspects of matters when they are being dealt with by the government or the civil service. So also in this case. It should also be emphasised that any conclusion in this case could, on an accelerated basis, harm national security interests. That's why the decision took some time. It must be carried out in such complex cases as this in-depth assessments of all aspects of the case. These have to keep goals. They must keep track of legal processes after any stoppage of a purchase. The government has clearly indicated that lessons can be learned and concrete action can be taken on issues relating to foreign purchases of Norwegian enterprises. For example, the government has stressed the need to amend the legislation to make it difficult to buy Norwegian companies to circumvent the export legislation. In other words, it shall not be possible for other countries to purchase companies which would not be licensed to sell military equipment to the same country. Furthermore, as I have seen and heard, the government will look at the possibility that establishments which have been refused export applications in the last five years are routinely assessed in accordance with the provisions of the Security Act in Chapter 10. Such a system will then be able to better address several issues relating to possible circumvention of the export legislation. The government's signals here are in line with security policy developments. Strategic procurement is becoming increasingly important for some countries and majorities in the pursuit of technology and positioning. I would therefore like to conclude by giving my full support to the fact that the government is taking this seriously. I have also seen and heard that the government has clearly signalled it, and that the work is in progress for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e768	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e773	Sometimes I ask myself the question: Why do we have hearings? Why is the consultation in this matter more important than otherwise? It's simply because we're going to have to document the facts. In this case, as is usually the case when Stortinget deals with critical management reports, there is no audit basis. There are some excellent presentations sent to the Committee and then there have been hearings. In those hearings, our lead in the surveillance services that are the first line in these cases has been met. Without knowing that they are going into some party-political minefield where you have a certain interest in adopting the world a little different than it is – you can obviously do that if you have a majority – the E-service says there: ‘On 16 December last year, the E-service received a notification on a possible sale of a Norwegian company, Bergen Engines. [[...]] Our assessments followed two leads. One was the impact of possible sales on our ship MS «Marjata». The second track was whether a purchase would help to strengthen Russia’s ability to modernise the military.’» So the PST manager says: ‘We also first became familiar with the matter on 16 December 2020, and there I can only refer briefly to the E-Manager’s information about the same. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, we have produced five reports on the possible purchase, which are 21 January, 25 February, 5 March, 10 March and 13 March respectively." Same thing from the NSM that goes in the same direction. It's something that's pretty amazing. Some of us are quite trained with formal documentation that is provided, for example. in a courtroom. It is then common to comment on the evidence presented. You could say that you don't believe in them, they can point in different directions, but here the E-service says itself in the same direction. However, you do not comment on why you are completely insubstantial to this information, and continue your own mythology that it was an external tip that made this turn. Then we heard a representative today who even claimed himself a kind of heroic role far out in February, as a possible inspiration to get this case going. At that time, the E-service had already concluded with the material content. When the matter of the safety law, adopted at this size, was up, there was a case of legal certainty, and it just meant that you had to take the time it took to build up what became a royal resolution that everyone is satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e790	I would say that the criticism directed at the government in this matter should be addressed by the government in general and by the Prime Minister in particular. I join those who have said otherwise in this debate that it would serve the government in general and the Prime Minister in particular to say that this was simply not good enough. This should not have happened this way. We see that the opposition has been right and is right, and that is why we turned around and used the Security Act and stopped the sale. We're sorry, the government should say. So, with some reservations for Minister of Justice Mæland, they do not. Neither do the government parties here in the Chamber – they present what I would call immediate political argumentation to try to partially cover the lack of attention to the safety work, which the case has revealed, and of course the confusing information given to the Stortinget, for which the Minister of Defence has a special responsibility. There is reason to just say very clearly that this matter is created by the government itself. It is alarming to see that the lack of work on safety issues has been revealed because it has failed. It is the government itself, of course, that has stood for this – also because they have provided the Storting with confusing information – and that has contributed to the political temperature of the matter. So I would say this, also in the light of my earlier work in the Committee on Control and Constitution: I remember and remember the Prime Minister's pronounced criticism of the former government of security work. Everything would be so much better with her as Prime Minister. The coordination was to come into focus and be strengthened. It is precisely what has just been revealed in this case that coordination has failed, that attention has failed. And it would serve this debate on the Prime Minister came up and commented on just this. In addition, it seems strange and incomprehensible that the government parties cannot end the wish for a thorough review of the case, as proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e803	A strange situation arises, where the government seems to be willing to go further in taking self-criticism and recognize the issue than the government parties on the Stortinget are, if one is to take both the representatives Tuskedals and the representative Tetzschner seriously. But now leave it. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry to sign up for the debate, because there is one side to this issue we also have to address before we can end the debate, and that concerns the future of the Bergen Engines. Of course, it's a great commitment to Bergen, and I'll say in Industry-Norway, around a safe future for this company. It is essential to ensure that in this process, where the government must take its part in the responsibility for both the development of time and the creation of uncertainty about the future of the enterprise, a political role is also taken in creating security. There has been a proposal today from the Red Group, which we believe is too detailed to point out one particular solution. The important thing for Bergen Engines and the employees there is to get a long-term industrial owner, but it is in return – with the backing we have in this matter – a political responsibility to contribute to. I would also like to show that the town councillor in Bergen has made a clear call to the government that goes in the same direction as what I and SV have said in several rounds. So I would like the Minister of Industry to take the floor and say something about what she and the government are doing about the future of Bergen Engines, in order to confirm that the government will have an engagement and see a role for itself in helping to secure jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e814	Let me first take the opportunity to correct an error or an inaccuracy in the setting. It was an external actor who contacted my department council by phone on 11 January. In that conversation, no information was provided, but it was agreed two days later, on 13 January, where we received this information and took the matter further – only then those dates were clarified. I have commented on several occasions on my State Secretary's statement, which was printed in the Official Journal of Bergen, and I have acknowledged that it has fallen into bad luck. As I said earlier, my State Secretary was not at the time familiar with the investigations that were being carried out. I want to make it clear to the Stortinget that in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries it is not that all employees – not even in political management – are familiar with all stock exchange-sensitive information or security-cleared information, and so it will be in the future. So a little bit about the future of Bergen Engines: I have a lot of understanding of the uncertainty the employees in the company experience, and I have a lot of understanding that it has a social interest, especially locally in Bergen. However, we do not know the consequences of this stoppage of sales for Bergen Engines, not for the company as such, nor for the employees, because this is a private company, and it is the company itself that has to answer for the future and what plans they have for Bergen Engines in the future. I've even had two meetings with trustees at Bergen Engines. I have listened to their concerns, and I have listened to their ambitions and thoughts for the future. I have said that my door is open if they want more meetings, but at the same time I have underlined that right now it is Rolls-Royce who is sitting with the cards. My office will have a meeting next week with Rolls-Royce on Bergen Engines and what opportunities exist in line with Norwegian industrial policy and existing instruments for any future change of business. I will, of course, also follow that work closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e827	There has been a great job with this case from many sides. An important job has been to find out what the actual conditions are, get information. Therefore, the hearing was important. I feel that I will have to comment on the accusations brought by the representative Tetzschner, where, in my eyes, he, in a rather disrespectful way, goes loose on the whole big crowd, because it was a majority on the Stortinget that decided that we should hold a hearing. We've held a hearing, something that an entire committee was behind. There is also a majority on the Stortinget that supports the criticism of the Stortinget against the government. The representative, Tetzschner, seems to think that the majority does not relate to what the services said in the hearing, when we say that there was a random warning that caused the safety work to start. He quoted from the E-Manager's posts, where the E-Manager says: ‘On 16 December last year, the E-service received a notification on a possible sale of a Norwegian company, Bergen Engines.’ But the next sentence is: ‘The assessment of the relationship between the sale of Bergen Engines to Transmashholding was commissioned by the Ministry of Defence on 14 January this year.’; So we can go to what was said about PST. There the representative Tetzschner said that the PST chief had said: ‘We also first became familiar with the matter on 16 December 2020, and there I can only refer briefly to the E-Manager’s information about the same. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, we have produced five reports on the possible purchase, which are 21 January, 25 February, 5 March, 10 March and 13 March respectively." Then is the next sentence, which Tetzschner didn't take up: ‘The first report came as a result of the order issued by the Ministry of Justice and Defence on 13 January.’ That is to say, before the meeting of the ministerial councils that came about due to the alert, no reports were drawn up. There was no assignment about it. Then I was accused of wondering what would have happened if we had not had this warning. I did not speculate, I asked when the government would take the matter into consideration. These include: Because of something Prime Minister Erna Solberg said during the hearing, because, on a question from Audun Lysbakken, the Prime Minister said — with reference to the safety assessments: «as I have also pointed out, it would be the time when this would come up anyway.» That is why I tried to ask what time the government believes it would have come up anyway, which is currently not very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e864	I also need to answer some of the claims that have come through the hearing, and I will continue where Emilie Enger Mehl left off. Now this summary of the debate is not to be about E-Manager Stensønes’ glittering posts and just that, but he is good, he gets to say it, and is a good man to refer to. When we talk about this with speculation, he was the first to introduce that concept at all during the discussion of this matter. He was asked, as Enger Mehl pointed out, whether this would happen anyway. The question was: is it that this case would have been dealt with politically anyway, is it such that something would be done about it without the external notice? So E-Manager Stone Sons answers quite emphatically something that is very comprehensive for what is the leftover impression of the situation, he says, "Some would probably have picked it up, but again, there'll be speculations." That's the speculation we're talking about here, that's the whole uncertainty. The Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister has said that here are the points of learning, we will do things differently, we will make changes, not least, and this means that the majority of proposals will be dealt with, taken up and worked on, so that you can have a long-term and sound management of Norwegian security policy. It's necessary. So I just want to make a comment on what the Minister of Industry is raising. She says that the representative from the Ministry of Industry was not aware of this and did not have all the information about the government's work, nor did he have any classified safety information. I get that, too, it's fine. But all employees in the Ministry of Industry, all citizens of Norway are free to enter and read the open threat assessment of the E service, the open threat assessment of the PST and NSM, where it is very well described what is the danger of strategic buy-in and investment in Norway. Finally, I would like to say that it is conscientious that the Minister of Industry is meeting with Bergen Engines, but they have to take this as an opportunity to make a long-term solution, because what do you do when you stop a sale for security reasons? Then there is a government responsible for other strategic and political solutions to a company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e875	Let me just comment on a couple of points. The government has said that we have some clear learning points after this case. That's the first time we use the Security Act to stop a purchase. It would be unnatural if we didn't have learning points after the first time we used a law, and there's some clear learning points after this. One thing, of course – as the Minister of Justice has also stressed – is that there is a need to have a clear and clear contact point in the Ministry of Justice to deal with these matters, so that matters that are not a prior understanding of, namely companies that are already under the Security Act and that are listed, are captured. We have said that we have improvement points on that. It took too long for us to start that work, and there we see that there are shortcomings in the work we have done. There are also some other important learning points. It is the time aspect of such matters. I hear many people saying it takes a long time. So this is a case of a company that is not listed. It's a matter where we need to look at technology at several levels, their defence supplies, their international situation, questions about which technology is available, and questions about ownership. In companies already known, the Stortinget has decided that the government should do so in 60 days. In a company that we don't know, we've spent the first 65 days doing it, and we admit that we've made a mistake. We haven't spent a long time, we've spent a very short time clarifying this. This is because it has been working at high pressure since 13 January. Yes, there was an external information that put a full pressure on it from January 13th by the ministerial councils after the information that came that this could be related to deliveries. But it is also such that 13 January, as the Stortinget was informed in a letter from me, there was a follow-up meeting in the Export Control Committee where this matter was on the agenda, and where the services noticed that they were going to work on this. The track it went in, of course, was that it was a clear order. It's not that it's unclear if it would start in another way. That's what I've written to Stortinget that it would, the E-Manager has actually said in the hearing that was, and we've solved those questions. So it's been working with full pressure in the future. There are some people who believe that the Prime Minister should be informed about everything that is going on in every track. The most important thing is that the tracks actually work, that it works when there's full pressure on it. That is why we contacted them when it came up, and heard about them working on it, and then they worked hard to promote a matter to the Government Security Committee. In these stages, I think it's been right to say that. If I can also be allowed to say something about the follow-up – I might have to sign for later?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e892	The Prime Minister can take it right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e898	I just want to say that when it comes to social security, we're going to do all this. I just want to underline one thing. Every year we review the level of safety in the departments. The size was also informed about it in the budget work in 2017–2018. It's the NSM that does it. So it's not like we're not going to review the safety work and the quality and knowledge of the departments. We do that in an annual review to be sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e904	Michael Tetzschner has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e909	I want to maintain as a principle that it is an advantage to correct criticism, that you also take into account how the administration works. Because it has two sources. It has been shown that political orders have been received from the Ministry of Defence, but the security service works every day without orders from its departments. They work directly under the Security Act adopted by the Storting and their mission is to safeguard the interests of the country. That's why it's going to be a speculation. That expression has been used by the E service even when it is proposed to explain the case rapporteur from whom it must be distanced by saying that it is speculative, because it was on the radar anyway – which could also be said that an external warning could be suitable for getting a case on the radar. The size itself has said that for reasons of legal certainty one must have the burden of proof that it is something that can be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e914	I understand at the Council of State and at the Minister of Justice that there is no transfer of technology of importance, and I accept that. But anyway, when the Prime Minister stood up here, she said there had been a number of meetings internally from January until the matter was settled. But did there go any warnings to Rolls-Royce? I wonder. She said there had been several meetings, and information has changed between departments and so on, we know that through the hearing too, but no one has notified Rolls-Royce about this. Rolls-Royce continued and did «Due Diligence» until 12 April. How is that possible? There's no point shaking your head, Minister of Defense, because we've documented that, and that's what Rolls-Royce himself has said. How is it possible to keep on for three months and let Rolls-Royce continue with ‘Due Diligence’ if you sit and assess whether this can be a sale you have to stop? Then you should give a warning, a pre-warning, and you temporarily derived from this. But no notice was given to Rolls-Royce, they continued the process as if this sale would happen. It's critical. It is nice to do something about it now, and nice that no significant technology was given to TMH, but it is the principle that this continued for three months while the government evaluated one way or the other. I have to get back to what I quoted from the exchange that has been on Instagram between the trade directors in the U.D. and representatives of the Rolls-Royce. I quoted what it says here: ‘I belive that’ – a case handler – ‘really loved his Rolls-Royce-time’. That means that an employee of the U.D. worked in Rolls-Royce. Why in the world would an employee in the U.D. be working in Rolls-Royce? Then you get this close contact with the export manager of Rolls-Royce. I think that's worrying. Why hasn't anyone followed up that track, as it's so popular to say? I think that is quite serious. And someone should ask, was it that someone was working there? Was there anyone who took responsibility for what kind of contact they had afterwards? Did anyone follow up who we're talking about here? Because the name is deleted from the papers. But it actually says what's happening here, and you have it in writing, so you can't shake your head for it. But you might want to follow it up. I urge the government now, first of all the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to take this on board! Who was it that worked at Rolls-Royce? What contacts are being made, these expressions of love that came earlier in this exchange?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e925	A brief remark about two things: one is this with the time aspect. The problem over time is not necessarily the time from January to conclusion. That, I think, is quite a reasonable use of time. The problem over time is from December to January. So the other thing I want to connect some words to. The representative Tetzschner discusses how the EOS services work on this. They work very well and conscientiously all the time, that's quite right, but what's been our concern, and that's important to me in this analysis, is that there's a difference between the EOS services' reports, work and assessments and political action. There's two completely different things, and it's also important to bring with you if you're going to be as tidy as Michael Tetzschner asks others to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e932	I just have a very short need to clarify something that I think must be a misunderstanding. It is not such that Rolls-Royce was not notified at all of the process that had been initiated, in the sense that the services examined the case from 13 January and then contacted Bergen Engines, which is owned by Rolls-Royce. So they were aware that there was a work going on, and that it was working on this. The government announced Rolls-Royce a break on March 18. Then all contact between the buyer and the seller stopped, and we received a written confirmation from Rolls-Royce. I don't know where April 12th and three months comes in, but we paused March 18th, when we thought we had a good enough basis for that. It is also a serious decision. Later we stopped it, as we know, but from then on there was no contact between the parties related to due diligence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e939	Since this case became known, there has been a great development related not only to what kind of information the public and the Storting have, but also to the government's attitude as to whether they should have done things differently, and how they have met the criticism that has come from Stortinget ever since the case became known in the media. We would not have stood here and discussed the matter after having had a full day's hearing with five state councils if the government had taken the matter seriously right away, if they had reacted when they should, if they had spoken together, so that they had been coordinated in both the security work and the communication outside. If the government without the Storting had to ask and dig in all sorts of ways, through written questions, through a verification hearing, through questioning sessions to various state councils and had to do everything in our power to get facts on the table, on its own initiative would have been more willing to share what had happened, we would not have been in the situation we are in now; that the majority of the Storting will adopt the strongest criticism we can without asking the government to go off. I think it is positive that the Prime Minister and the other Councils express some self-criticism and that we need to look at security work. I think it's reasonably negative that the positioning parties at Stortinget spend a lot of their time trying to doubt what kind of facts this criticism comes from. The majority of cases relate to the information available in the case. I believe that is well justified in both the vote and the debate. I feel that the representative Tetzschner, the representative of the Tuskedal and other representatives of the government parties should have more respect for it and be more concerned with the criticism and what we can do about it. That's what's important in the future. After a long spring of criticism and much digging to find out what has happened, it is now important that the Prime Minister and the other Councils take the security work seriously and actually follow up the Storting's request decision, which asks them to go through the security procedures and the Security Act and ensure that the nation is safe from such scandals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e948	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e965	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, there will be no opportunity for a line change, and those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e972	Now we're going through a historical event here. It may be a long way to go, but at least it is not very often that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence unanimously supports a proposal for a representative, but it has done so here. The Committee has examined the proposal of several representatives of the Central Party to present a comprehensive communication on how Norway can ensure national ownership and control of strategically important enterprises, natural resources, infrastructure and technologies, and the Committee agrees that this should happen. What has been explained in the comments – each party group may say something about the specific comments – is a long joint comment that points to several aspects of this issue: firstly, the importance of national ownership and control for the development of the country, our history related to national ownership and control of important natural resources, oil and hydropower, for example, and the importance it has had for the economic development of our country. Other reasons for national ownership and control can be about keeping large companies in the country instead of moving out, it can be about the need to have the state as an engine in social development, and not least, I would add, in situations characterized by the technological paradigm shift we are now in the process of, linked to the transition from fossil energy to a green shift. A specific issue raised in this proposal, which the Committee has a great deal of room for manoeuvre, is that of safety. Here there is a red thread from the matter we have just dealt with about Bergen Engines, to this announcement. Today, the Storting adopts a number of orders to the Government relating to the follow-up of Bergen Engines to the review of the Security Act, of procedures in the departments. A big message will be an opportunity to see the larger picture here, to discuss how we should, among other things. take care of basic national security in a situation where we know that strategic acquisitions and ownership are something that can also be used in terms of security policy. We welcome the work that is now to be done with such a big message. I think that will be an important political piece of work. I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e983	Both the government and we here at Stortinget take security and preparedness in the greatest seriousness. Today, it means more than defence, control over borders and good allies. Security today is about communication, control of high technology and strategically important enterprises and infrastructure. The previous case has just shown that. We have been given a good insight into the complexity of the debate, as the previous speaker also pointed out, on the presentation of the Bergen Engines. As has emerged there, the government has introduced the important new security law, such as: are intended to provide us with the legal tools to manage ownership of key companies and infrastructure for national security reasons. We believe it is important to have a broad political discussion of the nation's position on foreign purchases, follow-up to the new Security Act, and not least an overview of any vulnerabilities. Not all foreign purchases are, or belong here. For this reason, a joint committee supports the present proposal for a representative. However, I would like to make some clarifications from the Right and on behalf of the government parties, and which appear in our joint comments on this matter. We do not think that the proposal for a representative in its wording distinguishes sufficiently between state control and state ownership. Nor is there any clear definition of what is considered strategic or which parts of natural resources should fall within such a definition. In our comments, we have referred to the ongoing follow-up to EU ownership and business screening legislation. It is both our desire for Norwegian practice and our expectation of a coming big message that practices in the European Union are being promoted. It is in the Norwegian security interest that our own legislation is as consistent as possible with the EU in terms of strategic control. When we support the proposal, this is not a signal that we believe existing practices in Norway are irresponsible, or that the government is not doing well to follow up the implementation of the new safety law or other relevant provisions. We simply believe that this issue is so important that it increases in relevance. On this basis, we look forward to a big message on the question, which we can then discuss jointly, and once again light up and update the thematics that both the previous case and this case show.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e998	I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office for a very tidy and good work, which turns out to be in the spirit of a consensual committee. It seems to me that in the Central Party is happy for the cause, because she has a proper debate in the Stortinget, without fronts, but where we discuss the matter on a broad basis. In the national threat assessment for 2021, just undesired purchases and investments in Norwegian business were raised as a significant threat to Norwegian interests. And it is in many countries that they have dense or at best unclear and low-transparent relationships between governance and businesses. According to the view of the Centre Party, Norwegian control and ownership are very important in the time to come, precisely in the light of the major rectorialisation of Norway and, in particular, our northern regions. The secret services warn in the fraud assessment against Chinese and Russian purchases of key strategic Norwegian companies, natural resources, property and companies. And in the north area message, there were also several numbers to order the government to ensure Norwegian ownership of just these areas. The case of Bergen Engines, which we have discussed in the Chamber today, has clearly shown that it is not just in the north that this focus needs to be strengthened. To this end, the Central Party will invite the legislative proposal we are now discussing to submit a big message on how Norway can ensure national ownership and control of strategically important enterprises, natural resources, infrastructure and technologies. In the time we now live in, maybe technology and technology development were as important as the other areas. There's a raging development going on, and Norway's in the middle. We have amazingly skilled people in many companies and organizations, which means that we're also interesting to other countries. In the Central Party, we are very pleased with the broad support that has been given to the Stortinget proposal and that, despite some comments, the government parties also support the proposal. I think it's very important, because it guarantees that we get good debates in an important area for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1011	Let me first say that I'm glad that this is a matter where we stand together in the committee. It is an important matter for the country. Thank you to the rapporteur and, of course, to the rapporteur. It is a natural law that we do not like to adopt representative proposals in this way, so this is unusual, and it should be lacking only when the matter is as important as the proposer addresses, with the full range of natural resources, infrastructure, technologies, important businesses, etc. We are also pleased that it does not come now in a heated campaign, but that it can be taken with a little lower pulse, perhaps early in the next period. I think it's the case and the country's earned. This is not an unexploited area. It's been debated in different statements and with different angles, but maybe fragmented, so it might be nice to pick up. The picture is changing rapidly. A few years ago, it was not about buying-in in Norway to control resources in the same way. Today, we are experiencing another world in a global context. Some of us are concerned about extensive Chinese purchases in African countries. Property is power, and not all real powers are subject to national parliamentary control. We may have thought that this is not a cause for concern at home here in Norway, but we might have to re-analyze it, I think. So without today's practice necessarily being criticised, we have to look at the long lines ahead and the scenarios that can occur. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a common position on foreign purchases, and there are naturally enough questions about defence materials and ownership of businesses. All of this needs to be assessed in a security perspective, but also in a direction-by-Norway perspective, because it concerns our business and it concerns jobs and, in particular, aid and relief work. This has many pages I hope can be discussed when to come back to which conditions such a message should have, and what framework to define. For it can swell to become everything – or nothing. It has to have a focus, and so it has to come back to the conditions that have to be there. It is important to find out that the EU and other countries are engaged in similar processes, so there are probably other ideas to get out of here. Then it is clear that the country's government and government parties have had security far ahead in the pancakes all the way. Therefore, this matter is extremely important, and it is fun that it is a consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1026	As I wrote in my reply to the Stortinget on the proposal for a representative, I share the rapporteur's view that ownership and control will have a central impact on Norway's security policy in the future. I also share the assessment that we are getting much better knowledge about people and actors who own or have our most central resources and values. That is why I responded to the representative proposal from Stortinget that the most important measure after the government’s assessment is that we have completed the work on implementing the Security Act and implemented the necessary changes that we are making. We believe that this work should be a priority rather than a big message of national ownership and control. In this way, we will have an overview of the activities, infrastructures and features that are important for national security. National controls can be achieved through regulatory instruments independent of ownership. However, state ownership may be important in order to ensure the ability of national security in areas requiring special competence or where Norway is dependent on meeting its needs in critical areas. This is the reason for maintaining state ownership in central parts of, among others. the defence industry. National control of sited properties and natural resources does not depend to the same extent on national ownership. Here, too, regulatory measures on the management and exploitation of such properties and resources could contribute to ensuring national control. We all agree that it is very important to improve knowledge and control of foreign investment that could threaten national security interests. For that reason, the national safety authority has been designated as the national contact point for such cases. In addition, amendments to the Ownership Control Security Act are being worked on and procedures and guides are being worked on how to deal with such issues. Of course, good cooperation between departments, the EOS services and other authorities is central. It will also ensure that the control of foreign investment balances the need to safeguard national security interests and the desire to ensure good conditions for economic development through such investments. Finally, it is – and it is certainly unnecessary to say so – that the government will of course follow up the unanimous decision on the big picture that the Stortinget now takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1037	Historically, national and long-term ownership of important resources and companies has been central to Norway. Today, we see a faster technological and safety change both in Norway, in our neighbourhoods and globally. The police’s national threat assessment for 2021 points out that buying-in and investing in Norway can give foreign countries power and influence that they do not have in Norway’s interest. Infrastructures such as roads, ports, airports, railways, broadband, telecoms, energy and water are vital sectors of our society. Our ability as a nation to secure these is essential to keep society going in the event of a crisis. Several of our allies today warn against companies from some countries, for example: may be used for intelligence purposes. Against this background, there is a need for a more comprehensive assessment of the potential safety consequences of the fact that enterprises from countries with which Norway does not have a safety policy cooperation operate important parts of Norwegian infrastructure. Defence and security policy considerations also indicate that there is a need to be aware of the safety risk posed by the purchase of natural resources. The concession law has been of great importance in ensuring local and national ownership, both public and private, inter alia. to hydropower, soil, forest, fish, minerals, oil and gas; what has built our society. What makes it a little different today is that we see an increasing degree of major activisation in Norway's neighbourhoods, especially in the north. Norwegian ownership and control are therefore of major importance for security policy in the future. I will not continue the debate in the previous case on Bergen Engines, but I cannot help but say that it was special to follow. All of this, in particular the debate that was earlier, on Bergen Engines, but also other issues that Tuskedal had in mind, makes it necessary today to carry out a more thorough review of issues related to national ownership and control. Let me say: the degree of national control and ownership of natural resources, businesses, technology and infrastructure will have a central impact on Norway’s security policy in the future and on how we govern ourselves. A big message is therefore a natural place to start. The safety and security of Norway is a core task for any government and any majority. In today’s security policy situation, there is therefore a need for a more thorough review of the important role of Norwegian ownership and control in securing Norwegian interests, i.e. ours. As one of the proposers, I would therefore like to pay tribute to the members of the government parties who see this and who do not agree with the Minister of Justice and Preparedness. Indeed, according to the government, it is not natural to draw up a monitoring report on how Norway should ensure national ownership and control of strategically important enterprises, infrastructures, natural resources and other resources. Nevertheless, an overall committee recommends this, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1048	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1065	The President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1072	Next week deals with Stortinget Prop. 129 L for 2020-2021, which extends some of the rules we have in criminal custody for dealing with the pandemic. We are looking forward to that debate. However, there has been a problem. It is that the temporary rules we have today expire before Stortinget makes any decisions next week. Then we arranged it in that way that we presented a short extension of the temporary rules in this proposal. I would like to thank the parties for being able to solve this practical problem in such an appropriate and straightforward way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1077	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1094	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1101	I would first like to say that this is a day of joy. The amendment of the law that Stortinget deals with today, me and the Labour Party have been working for several years. We've made a lot of attempts to get her out of the Storting, and I want to commend today's Minister of Justice for perhaps being the only one of all the Justice Ministers we've had in this government that's taken care of this matter. The decision currently addresses a proposal to change the ceiling on compensation for victims of violence from one case to another per person per case, and not least to give retroactive effect. The limit is proposed for all initial requests made after the changes have taken effect. In addition, it is also proposed that the new ceiling should have an effect on cases already settled in which the claimant is entitled to higher compensation from a claimant, but where the compensation for victims of violence has been curtailed because of the ceiling. The limit for the compensation of victims of violence is required to understand and be perceived as unfair. In particular, it is because it is the time of action which determines the maximum to be used. The time of action may be such that the amounts can vary from NOK 150 000 to NOK 6 million. kr. The changes proposed today will make it easier to know what the upper limit of compensation for victims of violence is, and hopefully it will be fairer. From the Workers' Party's side, the much-discussed case after the murder of Kristin Juel Johannessen in 1999 and the injustice of the survivors who have experienced is the background to the proposals we have fought for in the Stortinget in both 2017 and 2019 – parents of Kristin Juel Johannessen who never gave up the fight for justice. Their painful history showed how unfair and wrong our law has been, and in the proposition, it is also clear from several answers how important this law change is for more people to get the compensation they would have legally received through the courts. It is important for legal certainty and justice that legislative changes are ultimately ahead of the Storting, and that there is a single committee and a single magnificence that now supports them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1118	Let me start with – and it may not be so common, but it is fully deserved in this matter – giving the case rapporteur credit for the great commitment she has shown in this matter. There are also a lot of parties on Stortinget, and I am glad that we are now dealing with a matter where the upper limit of the victim will be easier to understand and experience more fairly. The limit varies from NOK 150 000 to SEK 6 million. kr, and the time at which the action is taken determine the limit applicable. It feels unreasonable, especially when the act has taken place far back in time and the victim is paid much less than the person responsible has been sentenced to pay. In the Kristin case, to which it was referred, the perpetrator was sentenced to pay the surviving $4.6 million. NOK, but they were paid only NOK 200000 in compensation for the victims because the action took place back in 1999. The case was the background to a proposal by a representative that, in resumption proceedings, it should be the time of the conviction to determine the applicable rules. I think it was right to take the time to take an overall approach to the issue. A legislative amendment in line with the proposal for a representative would only have an effect on this matter. In retrospect, it has been found that there is a two-digit number of victims of violence who, by judgment, have been awarded a million damages for violence and who have received compensation for the victims of violence curtailed because of a lower ceiling. It is not only in resumption cases that it takes a long time before final judgment is given. This could be done, for example, by: also occurs when children are sexually assaulted and report only when they become adults, and in matters that are complicated to investigate. I believe it would be unreasonable if these victims of violence were not also subject to the amendment. I think we have found a good solution when we now propose that it is the time of application that determines which ceiling applies, and in addition, the new ceiling gives effect to already dealt with cases with the judgment for replacement. I am pleased that we can now help the survivors after Kristin Juel Johannessen, but also all the others who have been subjected to very serious acts, where they are credited with high compensation amounts from damages. I hope the change will give these people better conditions to move on in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1134	I want to thank the Council of State for the article. This is an important matter, not just for me, but for the entire Justice Committee, and it's a pleasure that we've gathered on a change. It is also positive that the government chose to take part in the victims' compensation law and come to the Stortinget, so that it would go quickly, for many years have passed when one has waited for this. What I'm wondering about, concerns the Victim Compensation Office, which is most likely to deal with the applications that you have to submit in order to collect the amount that you are entitled to, and there I'm a little concerned about the length of the procedure. I do not know if the Council of State can say anything about the capacity of the Victim Compensation Office and about how long it can still take.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1143	Actually, I don't dare answer that. It is not that these matters will create a great deal of pressure in the office, because there are very few cases, and they are very clear. It's passed. That's the amount set aside, so it shouldn't be complicated to deal with. I simply have to be allowed to come back to that, and I would probably dry out saying that these matters are prioritised because they have been lying and waiting so long. Of course, I will investigate this further, but I hope that there will not be a plug in the system, even if it – and I have to say that on behalf of everyone who works under difficult conditions now, in quarantine and at home, under difficult conditions with the Korona – it may well be that this office has also had challenges, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1148	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1168	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1175	Thank you for your cooperation on the matter. On the very day of the women's day in 2018, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to draw up a bill that would indicate that it is illegal without consent to share or otherwise publish images of others that are revealing, degrading or offensive in nature and that explicitly prohibit domestic porn, and also assess the need for changes in the criminal framework for this type of crime. The background to that decision was a draft representative presented by the Labour Party in 2017, in which we wished that the legal text explicitly stated that the sharing of such images must be illegal without consent. In 2017, maybe a lot of things come to mind with Nora Dark, a case that showed very clearly that we have a hole in the law and a clear too low punishment. In 2017 we were quite a few that had to clarify the law. We weren't quite a few about increasing penalties, we were saddened by it, but as I said, we decided one should consider it. This decision is now being followed up by a proposal for a new penalty for the sharing of images of an infringing or unpublished private nature. Sharing sexualised and other offensive images without consent is a major social problem, and it can have serious and long-lasting consequences for those who become involved. Kripos has reported that many users are threatening to share images as blackmail to get images, sexual services, or to prevent a party from ending a relationship. Unfortunately, people who have been subjected to this type of crime are also reported regularly. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that any unlawful sharing of the infringing image is punishable and that this is clearly reflected in the law. I'm very happy that the proposal is here, that we're gathering about it, and that we have to make such a decision. It's been a very important matter for the Labour Party, and also for the other party, and I think it's time for us to get a piece of legislation that's in line with the time, which takes over the new forms of crime, and which also provides for a strengthened legal certainty for those who are exposed to this type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1186	In the past, the size has shown good ability to update the regulatory framework in response to new technologies and new trends. Today we're doing just that, we're finding an answer to an extremely harmful new trend, namely the sharing of offensive content. This is very good for two reasons. The first reason is a little bit legal. It's probably like that in today's law that you could have found ways to punish those who share this kind of material, but it's a legal grey zone. Yes, there may be injuries, there may be violations of privacy, etc., but it has been unclear, and that has probably led to many cases falling between two chairs. Today we get a shining clear legal clarification of where to stand, to say it like that. This is illegal, and we're sending a very strong signal. It brings me to point two for why this is important. That's because we've recently seen a flowering of division of e.g. violent videos where people are completely unmotivated on the street or elsewhere, and then filmed – like some kind of entertainment. We have to hit this hard. The rapporteur has done a good job. I think the government deserves credit for taking the time to do this in a thorough and good way, and I want to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1195	We have increasingly seen young bullies being bullied and exposed to the sheiks by sharing sexualized and offensive images without consent. Children and young people use mobile phones and apps that help to make this easy and under the control authority of their parents. Many sexualized images, videos, and violent scenes are drifting away. The police have seen many things where young people send nude pictures to someone they trust, and that the picture spreads and becomes a great impression for those who experience this. Kripos has reported that many use threats to share images as extortion for sexual services or to prevent the termination of a relationship. With today’s amendment to the penal code, it is explicitly stated that such sharing is prohibited and also punishable. The Christian People's Party is very satisfied with that. The Christian People's Party is concerned about the sexualization and physicalized children and young people are exposed through social media and society for the rest. Behind increasing sexualisation in society lies a cynical porn industry with profit motive. Instead, children and young people need to bring with them the value of commitment and lifelong relationships. On the other hand, young boys and girls put words on the despair of not matching the body norm they meet. Self-image and identity are being shaped, and the desire to be accepted is strong. Advertising and articles from influencers produce girls with long hair and slim bodies, the boys are well-trained, healthy and harsh, and on social media the glorification of those who are subjected to violence or other humiliations has become a problem. This body pressure and the exposure of someone in a vulnerable and vulnerable situation create uncertainty and uncertainty among children and young people. Psychiatric health among children and young people is a main focus of the Christian People's Party in the revised national budget. Among other things, 150 million is proposed. to strengthen existing psychiatric and drug treatment services. This work will increase access to lowthreshold care for mental and drug problems. More than 30 million. kr is proposed to enhance mental health in schools. This is one side of the same thing. Good prevention is important, so that more people can avoid developing mental disorders. In order to prevent mental distress, school health services can play an important role. Finally, the Christian People's Party is pleased that today we are sending out a powerful signal in the country that sharing sexualized and other offensive images and videos without consent is forbidden and punishable. Then we all have to be role models and interlocutors for children and young people, so that the negative developments we've seen can be reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1210	Sharing intimate and other infringing images without consent is serious crime that can have major negative consequences for the affected person. I am therefore very pleased that a joint judicial committee has supported the government's proposal for a new penalty order aimed at sharing images, films and audio recordings of an offensive or obvious private nature. Today, everyone carries cell phones with cameras everywhere. We have seen an unfortunate development in which it has become more common to spread sexualised and other offensive images without consent, for example. through social media. We have also seen that the sharing of images and films of violent events has gradually become an increasing problem, especially in some youth settings. We fear that sharing violent films helps to harden environments and normalize criminal and unacceptable behaviour. The sharing of sexually transmitted and other infringing images is, in many cases, punishable today. However, today's rules do not capture all the situations in which offensive images are shared without the consent of the pictured person. In addition, criminal liability is divided into several different provisions, and it is not directly apparent from the law that the sharing of infringing images is punishable. We therefore see that it is desirable to have a separate provision in the penal code that expressly prohibits the sharing of infringing images and films. During the consultation, there was broad support for the introduction of such a provision. Compared to today's legal situation, the proposal will make it much clearer that such sharing is not permitted. This could contribute to increased legal awareness, especially among young people. The government's proposal means that unjustified sharing of infringing images should be punishable by fine or imprisonment up to one year. Gross infringements shall be punishable by imprisonment up to two years. An increase in the level of penalties for the most serious infringements is proposed. With this proposal, we are strengthening criminal law protection against illegal image sharing. The proposal itself will not be able to solve all the problems, but we believe that a more nuanced provision could be a useful tool in the other information and prevention work as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1232	It's a good day. Here is the case after case that we are a few about, and the government delivers a call for decisions that are taken in Stortinget. It's a fact that appeal decisions have doctors for a long time, especially when it comes to justice. We note that there has been a change, perhaps especially since Monica Mæland became Minister of Justice, but I still want to ask the Council of State the question: what could be the reason why the work on this particular call for proposals has taken three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1237	I agree that today's programme has increased gradually. I started a little earlier than the Justice Committee today, in another case. But these are important things. I find it a little difficult to answer for what happened before 24 January last year, when I came to the Ministry of Justice. We work tirelessly to get things away, even in a pandemic situation. But it is clear that although it is quite obvious that, for example. The sharing of images is a major problem, and it may be difficult to identify in the jungle, it has been necessary to consult, and there have been parts of the proposal that we have not been able to promote today, among others. due to recordings by press organisations, etc. Legal work is complicated. I'm very happy that we still get this in place. We still have a job to do in some other fields, as the representative knows. We have to work on that a little bit more, and we have to spend a little more time on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1246	I'm glad that both the Council of State and the representative Frölich focused on the very dangerous trend of spreading violent videos on different social media. I have to say that if you can hit any of that activity, it will mean a lot to different events in these environments, because this is often the beginning of revenge spirals. If someone gets humiliated, they don't just get humiliated, but there can develop different spirals of violence out of one incident. I see examples of that in cases that go to court, where it started this way. What I wanted to ask the Council of State is, what's complicated here is that this, for example. is on Snapchat and disappears quickly, or that it is in other types of encrypted places where you exchange these videos within specific environments, with the most extreme things you do – and then it goes away. It requires the police to have knowledge of entering these encrypted communication channels. Will the Council of State say anything more about how it works?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1253	Yes, crime evolves in line with technology. New technology is very good, but it also has aspects that give tools to those who don't have good intentions. That's why, unlike the representative's party, I am very much in favour of police reform – that we have to build districts with strong professional environments, and that we get new technology, new tools. I have been in police districts where they say that thanks to new organisation, better quality and better methods, they now detect abuses such as. happens online via Snapchat, and you have mobile patrols, etc. So it's very important that the police are both able to develop new methods and apply new technologies. I feel that the police are running as progress progresses, but it is demanding, and very often we have a law that is behind us. So we all have to try to modernise the way we work, as the criminals do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1259	Thanks for the answer. I was not looking for a broad debate on the reform of the police, but I used every opportunity. When I have had contact with the police districts about this, the problem has been that they do not have the skills or the equipment to penetrate these solutions, and do not have enough people who have experience and knowledge of it. The problem that I have seen, at least, when I have asked some of these questions, is that one depends on Kripos going in, which really has the high level of competence, equipment and resources associated with this. At the same time, there are so many cases of this and so low penalties that it takes a lot to engage Kripos in those issues. This is not a direct question, but we have a job to do – I think the Council of State must admit, regardless of the type of reform – in order to equip the police with this capacity to address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1266	I seriously believe that police reform is important in this context, but I should also not invite you to debate it on a beautiful Friday in the sun. What's the situation, is that we have a job to do. We have it in the law, we have it in the case of tools, and we have it in the case of competences. We see that the police now – and that is what we announced in the police report – also need other skills, engineering, technical competence, in order to keep track of the development of the criminals. So this job we'll never finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1273	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1292	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1299	Prop. 165 L for 2020-2021 contains a proposal for changes to the rules on the prohibition of evidence in the Criminal Procedures Act § 119 and § 22-5. The proposal is to introduce a prohibition of evidence for communication with patent advisors included in the list of authorised advisers referred to in Article 134(1). 1 of the European Patent Convention. The aim of the proposal is to address the need for Norwegian companies to provide reliable and competent advice on patent issues, and to provide Norwegian patent advisors with the same framework for the protection of the likely communication with the client that such consultants already have in our neighbouring countries. In addition, the proposition contains a proposal on changes in customs duties §§ 15-7 and 18-8, which is related to changes adopted by Law 12 June 2020 No. 67, on changes in trademark law and customs law etc. [[Implementation of new trademark directive etc.]] I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. I have to say that there are almost idyllic states in this committee for the time being, because there is once again a joint committee behind the proposal. The Committee has noted the view of Ecocrim and the Police Directorate that an extension proposed could lead to other professional groups wishing for similar exemptions from criminal law. However, the Committee believes that the exemption is well founded, that Norway is talking about a very limited circle with a special approval by the European Patent Office, EPA, and that for that reason it would not be natural to benefit from this derogation in the argument to introduce a similar rule for other professional groups later. The introduction of a ban on evidence of patent advice would simplify the current practice. A harmonisation of the Norwegian rules of evidence with the rules in our neighbouring countries will give Norwegian industry equal framework conditions in terms of protection for the likely patent consultancy of the competing countries, and Norwegian patent advisors will be given the opportunity to compete with their foreign colleagues on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1314	The President assumes that the rapporteur's description of idyll is the reason why several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1331	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1338	This is a matter where I think many in the Justice Committee know the content. I think most of us have visited Oslo prisons over the years and seen the enormous need for rehabilitation or new prisons. At least we've seen that those rooms are no longer suitable. Now the well-known department A has been closed for a while, and it's department B that's used, but there's also a bad settlement and it's hard to do a good job with the inmates. These include: In the United Kingdom, the number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in prison is estimated to increase by about one third of the total number of drugrelated deaths among drug users in prison. The cops to work in. So there's a great need to look at where to build a new prison, or maybe a rehabilitation of it in Greenland. The Committee is well aware of what has happened in this matter. The government and the ministry have been in many empty alternatives and have ended up looking at eight. Finally, it was concluded that Bredtvet was recommended in Groruddalen. It led to a great mobilization in order to keep the green areas there and avoid its degradation, it was a lot of commitment, and that is the background to the proposal. But now the case has taken a new turn by saying that yesterday it was announced via the media that it is not relevant to build on the Bredtvet anyway, nor is it relevant to rehabilitate in Greenland, and that you will look for plots outside Oslo. I then leave the role of the rapporteur-in-chief to say that we – that is, the minority in the Committee on Justice – are focusing on the proximity of Oslo, and I believe that others in the Committee on Justice also believe that this consideration is important. There is talk of this prison being used to a large extent for custody, and it is also important to be brought to justice or to be brought to court, and the proximity of Oslo is important. So the proposal we have made in the Centerpartie and SV to ask the government to consider alternative sites for a new prison in the valley of the Groruddalen, we think, is very topical. There are large areas there, and there have always been concerns about using plots there, for example: the time when it was appropriate to have an emergency centre, where there is a large empty area near what is to become the single police station. So we hope you can go into proposal No. 2, and that also more parties will be involved and discuss it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1347	Then the speaking time is up, and I assume that the representative will address the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1352	I will – and the other proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1357	The representative Jan Bøhler has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1362	A prison is a natural part of and a natural consequence of a large city. Of course, the Labour Party has great respect for the citizens of the Bredtvet area who are sceptical about getting a new prison in their neighbourhood and in their green area. The Labour Party has both heard and listened to the protests. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we are aware of what we are saying no to when we say no to building new Oslo prison on Bredtvet. The proposal, as outlined, paints not only a new prison but also a new prison for women. That the human prison in Oslo is over-mature for refurbishment and modernisation is well known, as the case-rapporteur said. Perhaps it is not as well known that this also applies to the women's prison in Bredtvet. For example, a new prison could be used. ensuring that both men and women got a shower on the cell, that they could get job offers that would create knowledge at the moment after settlement, and an infrastructure that provided meaningful rehabilitation activities rather than isolation and passivity. There are not many plots that are suitable for this purpose in Oslo, and as I understand it, you have easily been thorough. It is unfortunate that this time, too, there are outside circumstances that prevent a level playing field for women. But the protests are heard and listened to by the Workers' Party, both locally and here on the Stortinget, so now it seems that the road continues to find a suitable void and location of Oslo prison. Unfortunately, a new female prison seems to have been pushed into the future. State Council of Malta has begun this process. Yesterday she was out in the evening post and informed a little about it. But something's creeping up in the plans of the state council, because here it seems that a prison outside Oslo is planned. This may be unfortunate. The case rapporteur mentioned the road to the warehouse. The Council of State argues that it can be digitised. But this will also affect employees and competences, and it will have consequences for prisoners. It has consequences for the play areas, and it has consequences for its relatives, cooperation with the police, volunteering and other services. A prison is a natural part of and a natural consequence of a large city. I think we have to go along with that when we're going to discuss the way forward for Oslo prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1375	There is little doubt that there is a great need for a new Oslo prison to replace today's Oslo prison in Greenland. The prison is demolished with inappropriate area both inside and outside. Of the 180 plots that have been assessed so far in the process, we have recorded that the option on the Groruddalen Bredtvet has emerged as a very good alternative both socio-economically and not least because of the synergies this would have given to the women's prison that is currently established there and also needs to be upgraded. In the Right we have noticed that there has been great local resistance to using the green area on the Bredtvet to create a new prison building. We record that Oslo Municipality has now chosen to say no to this option, and that this is something the government has chosen to listen to and respect. The Bredtvet option is, as we understand it, therefore no longer applicable. I understand that the government will now focus on other solutions and alternatives. State councils will probably be able to do much more for the further process of their article. Having said that, I would say that it is fundamentally unfortunate if the Stortinge were to form a practice in which they actively go in to interrupt preparatory processes in the departments and underlying agencies. I think we should stick to a practice where we take a stand on these kinds of issues when we get them presented to us in the Stortinget. When matters are dealt with here, in this Chamber, it is up to this assembly to disagree with or disagree with the assessments and conclusions of the matter. I understand the government's decision and hope that this decision will not lead to the establishment of a new Oslo prison taking too much time, but I trust that this is a matter of high priority in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1386	The young people on the Wetvet and Kalbakken live between two major motorways that intersect their areas. Through friends, schools, kindergartens and leisure activities, they are fragmented by these pathways. And it's not just here, it's the whole Grorud valley, where three major highways intersect and capture enormous amounts of space. Between the roads there are blocks and series houses. Green areas and open spaces are significantly smaller. The broad white forest, which we're talking about here, is actually the only intermittent green area between Trondheimswegen and Ostre Aker road – two four-field highways, for those who don't know the habitats of huge numbers of people. So between these roads there are thousands of people, and there are many of those who live in straits and who have low incomes, many more than in many other parts of the country. We know there are significant living conditions challenges. A third of the kids growing up on the Road live in poor families. So this is where the government wanted to build a new Oslo prison, which is something that the Labour Party sometimes also speaks for. It's going to destroy this forest, this hugely important open space, used by the local population, the kindergartens and the schools that are there, every single day. Here's the badger, the squirrel and the deer, and here's the big tree. Here the kids can get their balls and move, and it's hugely important. I am therefore very pleased that the government announced that they are now putting the plans to build the Bredtvetskogen on ice, and will look for new plots near Oslo. It's important. And yet I would like to stress the statements we have heard today that both Oslo prison and not least the women's prison, which is on the Bredtvet today, and which are well integrated into the community we have there, need to be refurbished. As one of those who's been inside that women's prison, and I'm also the closest neighbor to where I live, on the Road, I know that there's a great deal of need to rust up there. I am disappointed that no more parties support the SV's proposal on that very point. We can't keep the female prisoners closest as hostages in order not to get better terms, because you won't accept the expansion of Oslo prison in this area. I would like to end by thanking all those who have been on this matter locally. The proposal of the government and the plans to build up the Bredtvet Forest has created enormous and massive local involvement. People have really set up to preserve their forest, their natural area, their free space, and everyone who is here in the hall can be sure that that resistance won't go anywhere. It's going to be there and follow the case. With that, I take up the suggestions SV has on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1401	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1406	When the botsen was finished in 1851, it was far out in the country. In time, the country’s capital has grown slowly around all the walls, and today the prison lies there as a gigantic barrier. Time has definitely run from prison in Greenland. Now it has to be moved. The situation of today's prison in Oslo is excruciating. The settlement is ready to fall, and the prisoners deserve better reconciliation. So we're in a common sense that something has to be done, and the choice is between picking up the out-of-date building mass, or moving the prison operation further away from Greenland. For us in the MDG, the choice is simple – we want to get away from the socially vulnerable part of the city. We don't find any logic in that we're going to hesitate to hold a dense prison in the heart of the capital. The plot has an enormous potential for urban development, and not least as a free space for people in the district. City of Old Oslo is struggling with living conditions challenges and is also one of the country's densest populated areas. New green areas are required. At the Botsintel is Klosterenga. For 30 years the population has been promised a new sculpture park. The City Council has taken the lift and granted the money, and now the first spade roof is set. In two years' time, the largest art project in Oslo since Vigelandsparken will be ready. This is going to be a huge boost for both Oslo and the city. If the government goes in to force continued prison operations, new constructions and gigantic security guards will destroy the park, the housing and the urban environment. We can't accept that. With such an out-of-date building mass and such an enormous need for refurbishment, the alternative appears to be sensible with new prisons. Renovating the prison will be demanding and expensive. So we're going to have to think completely and see what the possibilities are for the move. If the government goes for renovation, it will lock the plot for a hundred years. It'll be a historical mistake when we now have the chance to ensure that the area opens, and that the people of Oslo once again can cross and cross this part of the city. We're at a crossroads. Moving the prison will have so many positive effects on people and urban development that the elections should be simple. Today, we need to ensure this with a clear and clear decision so that the population, employees and prisoners can have peace and security in order to move the prison. It's time to give the prisoners better relationships and the inhabitants of Old Oslo a better urban development and a much more cozy neighborhood. Move the prison out of Greenland! With that, I take up MDG's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1426	The representative Per Espen Stoknes then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1431	Oslo Prison is, as many have said, worn down, and there is also a closure notice from State Building, which cannot guarantee further operation after 31 December 2019. In line with the state project model, several alternatives have been identified for a new Oslo prison, including new buildings and rehabilitation. There has also been a comprehensive search for land, where State Building and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs have assessed nearly 180 plots. The recommendation of the State Council and the external quality insurer is to build a new Oslo prison on Bredtvet. The broad spectrum is the most socially viable option and, in addition to 290 men’s prisons, will provide 50 new women’s prisons because existing prisons are used as administrations and joint functions. I have had a good dialogue with the mayor of Oslo about a new prison in Bredtvet, and of course I have a strong understanding that neighbours do not want a new prison in the neighbourhood, even though green areas would have been largely preserved as they do today. The Greenland option of rehabilitation and new construction is, after we have worked on it, disproportionately expensive, and we also know that the Municipality of Oslo wants the prison to be moved out of the city center. Therefore, we believe that it is not appropriate to proceed with this option. The plots otherwise proposed by the Municipality of Oslo have been re-evaluated. They are not applicable because they do not meet one or more of the selection criteria. So we now have to work on finding other solutions. So the first step that we're going to start immediately is to expand Ullersmo with 76 places. This would be a risk reduction measure if existing prisons were to be closed. We will also launch basic studies at Rome-rich prison Kroksrud, to check the possibilities for enlargement there as well. The representative of Aasen-Svensrud had good judgements related to localization in Oslo. I'm also going to meet the trusted ones next week to discuss this, but we're in a situation where all the municipalities other than Oslo want a state business, like a prison is. And so we have a challenge, and it's urgent to put an alternative in place. That is why we have given great priority to this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1451	The Council of State was out yesterday with thoughts and plans for a new Oslo prison – as well as the enlargement that the Council of State just presented at Ullersmo; it leaves me alone for now. We are well aware of the need for a capacity increase, and I have a lot of understanding that it is demanding to find a new location for a new Oslo prison, but this may have been a bit creative. How has the Council of State come to this idea that prison must be outside Oslo? I am fully aware that many want it, but was this anchored among employees and management at Oslo prison or at KDI? Were they familiar with the plans before the Council of State put them in the Evening Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1456	I have been working on this matter since I entered the Ministry of Justice. There have been many and difficult processes, there have been meetings, and I have had meetings with trustees, with KDI, with State Building and not least with the Municipality of Oslo several times – both the administration and the City Council – as well as that we have investigated the party groups in the City Council. So it's been working really hard on this. We believe that there have now been 180 site searches. We've been all over Oslo, and so we don't find suitable locations for this prison within the borders of the municipalities of Oslo, except for Bredtvet, which is what we prefer. There's no doubt that it'll be the best, it'll be the cheapest, it'll be what can be done the fastest, and we'll also get a new female prison there. It's a win-win, but when Oslo Municipality doesn't want to, we're in a very difficult situation. We can force ourselves on this, but we don't want to do that, and all the other municipalities want to welcome the state. We have a regulated plot on Ullersmo; we use it immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1465	But were the employees, the trustees, the management or the KDI familiar with the plans before the councils went out with them? Was this anchored in the building before the Council of State went into the Evening Post with the plans to place Oslo prison outside Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1470	This was anchored in the government. There is a government decision on how to continue working on important projects, so that the government has made an assessment of this. So today I have asked for contact with the trustees, because they were not contacted yesterday. They should have been. It's my responsibility. It wasn't done for different reasons. I've agreed to a meeting with them next week. Now, land assessments and land alternatives will not be determined by employees, but they will be informed. We're going to have a good dialogue, and there it went yesterday, but that's what I hope we're going to get in place. As I said, this is a new opportunity to search for a suitable site. It can't be far from Oslo either, everybody understands it. But we're in a very difficult situation, I have to admit it. It's a little strange, because I live in a municipality, I've been a municipal minister, and I know everyone wants state jobs, except for Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1477	It is absolutely right that very many people want prisons around the country, and there is a special situation in Oslo. But it is good that the Council of State now has to meet with the elected and orientated. After the meeting with the trustees – and probably after meetings with the directorate and the department in general, Oslo Prison and the management there – will the Council of State focus on the recordings that are coming, and listen to the needs, which I know before have been moving towards everything I raised in my post, about why it is important to have a prison in Oslo? Will the Council of State focus on what the parties and the ethos think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1482	I will, of course, and the starting point here is that we all agree. KDI agrees, State Building agrees, employees agree, management agrees. Everyone agrees, but not the host of a new prison, and that's what makes it a little complicated. So yes, I will absolutely listen. We're now working under a lot of pressure. Therefore, it is important at least to start building 76 places at Ullersmo. There's the plot, it's regulated. It can be done quickly, and then we can use the time we need to move on to Oslo prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1489	As the previous ones who had a reply have been to – the Council of State too – is close to Oslo, to the police, to the district court, etc. It's very crucial. A lot of time, for example, will be lost if you are going to drive, for example. 40 minutes, as suggested in the evening post yesterday. What I don't fully understand is when the Council of State indicates that there are no plots in Oslo. I was about to say that I would like to take the council on a trip to Groruddalen. There are actors, not the municipality – I understand that the municipality has not proposed plots – who have for many years tried to propose plots, whether it has been to emergency centres, police colleges or OL facilities. It's private owners, and partly Bane NOR, who has plots in that area, especially the plots that are close to where there's going to be a common police station. Where Manglerud and Stavner Police Station are now to have a new location, near Lower Kalbakkvej, there are available plots. I don't understand that you can rule out that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1496	I can only relate to the job that is done, a very thorough job, of State Building, KDI and of the Department. I have a State Secretary who has traveled across and across this city to look at possible plots. Oslo Municipality has pointed to plots east of the city, they have been assessed, but we have not found that they meet the requirements we have. There has been a very thorough job. I think the representative just has to deal with that based on the professional assessments made of different plot options, we have today. no current land other than Bredtvet, and it would not have Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1502	The Council of State stated that if you were imprisoned there would still be a green area on the Bredtvet. It's clear, some trees and some forest will be left there, but it won't be the continuous green area that you have today. Every day includes: I with my daughter, and very many others, to the nursery which is on the Bredtvet. We walk along a small gravel road, and it's a very nice and lovely break after walking 10 minutes along a four-field highway, where one has the cars clawed up, on the way to the kindergarten. When a walk along that road, one on the way to the kindergarten sees the deer and hears the birds sing, one gets a rather lovable breath from the rather constant highway noise we have through the Groruddalen. That way disappears. The neighbors who live on Kalbakken get jailed straight up. Today, women’s prison is well integrated there. We're used to having that, and we're going to have to do that. But that the Bredtvet prison would have destroyed that forest area, there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1507	I admire the representative for all the outdoors she can get with her little daughter, but I must say that the representative has not seen the drawings that have been made now after the prison has been downgraded, because then you are building a road to the highway. You actually make a damper for the highway. You don't just keep some shrubs, you make a nice green area. My assessment is that this would be very good for the area. You would have upgraded the area and got a noise wall against the highway, you would get a new female prison, and you would get more jobs in a part of Oslo that I think needs it. But this doesn't want Oslo Municipality, and we've been so far in that relationship. And we're still going to try to deal with that, even if it's the best option, measured by all of the parameters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1512	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1519	Although I understand that one would have wanted to have a prison on the Bredtvet professionally, I believe the government in this case has made a very wise decision to be clear that Oslo prison in Greenland is going to be laid down, and that we there are opening up to urban development, but also that we are adding ice on the Bredtvet as an alternative. It is not only important as a green area, it is an important natural area in the Grorud Valley, and it has been the basis of all the plans that have been made for the Grorud Valley since a comprehensive plan for the Grorud Valley in the late 1990s, that it must be a central area, it must be a free area and tie the valley together in the years to come. So I think this is a wise decision, also the one about immediately getting new places on Ullersmo and seeing wider areas where we can get a new prison in place. I am absolutely sure that this will be possible to get in place within a reasonable distance of Oslo, with good solutions for it. At the same time, Bredtvet can be an area that is being developed for the Groruddalen, to be taken care of in the natural areas that are there, and to develop them further. This is an important example of how to preserve nature in the city. So from the left, we see this as a good solution, and that's a good choice of government. There are important processes that are now under way, which will help shape Oslo for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1528	Much wise has been said in this matter, not least from my colleague Kari Elisabeth Kaski. It is important for me here at the end to stress that SV is not a brake pad for a new prison in Oslo. We definitely want a new prison in Oslo, for many of the reasons that have been mentioned earlier. It is that existing prisons are worn out. There is poor capacity, and the Civil Ombudsman has pointed out significant challenges with them due to building conditions, including: with outtime and problems with isolation. So we definitely need a prison in Oslo, but the location of the prison obviously must not conflict with local interests. That Kaski has said in an excellent way, so I'm supporting it by a hundred percent. What I do not support, however, is that the prison should be moved out of Oslo. It is important that when the Judicial Committee is to discuss it later, hopefully in the context of new plans, we must maintain the fundamental principle of the importance of subsidiarity. Prisoners shall have a right to be close to friends, family and former colleagues at work. We definitely believe that rehabilitation of prisoners in prison will be much, much better if you can have a natural and a little simple contact with your existing social environment. Even if moving Oslo took care of e.g. to Ullersmo and prison sites that will naturally be close to the T-Bahn or bus in Oslo, to far out of town, time may not be more than a few minutes away, the threshold for going to the Cliff or Greenland or to the women's prison in Bredtvet will be completely different. Like the representative Jan Bøhler, I am concerned that the government will not give up the plans to look for a possible plot in Oslo, and we should appreciate getting any such proposals back to Stortinget. A few other comments: I see that the MDG has presented some loose suggestions. I appreciate that they have come up, but they are not really adding anything new to the matter. They are just rewriting the suggestions SV has written. We're still going to support them. Then it's important to realize that in the case of the Bredtvet Forest, it's not like the people in the Groruddalen, with whom we've had a lot of contact, don't want a prison there. It's not because you're worried about criminals that you don't want a building there. It is about preserving this forest area. Nor do we want an industrial building or a secondary school or anything else. We want this as a forest. We do not want it to be built down. So it's important to get that perspective that when we now say no to the Bredvet Forest prison, it's not because we're worried that criminals are going to run around the area, and so want to stigmatize them. That's not our starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1539	I just want to say that I hope the Council of State and the Department won't let the opportunity go away to re-check the work done on plots in Oslo. It has now been decided to have a new joint station; Manglerud and Stovner police station should be located in Lower Kalbakvej. Just near it, one explained under the previous government that it was suitable to put a rescue center, but then it was moved south of Oslo, as we know, due to lack of space. But that was because you had to have exercise areas and helicopter base etc. The plot that was then passed through and found suitable for it is still available. Well, then it should be, for example. be fit for prison. It could also apply to the plot, which is also nearby there, for which one went to the OL plant, and which was part of Oslo's plan for where the OL plant in Oslo was to be located. I'm a little concerned that the focus has been on building out on the Bredtvet, as the most suitable place in this area, perhaps has locked the mindset a little bit when it comes to looking at suitable locations close to wood. We are also concerned with the workplaces in Oslo and, as other municipalities, of course want to keep these jobs, and we have the heavy professional argument about proximity to district law and police. You could get a very nice collection of the services if you put them near the new police station that's coming. What I would like to comment on is just something about the proposals that are here today. We have two proposals that we have promoted together with SV. We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from SV, which can be good – the proposals have some of the same content, but this complements. As regards proposal No: 4, from SV, about refurbishment in existing Oslo prison and Bredtvet women's prison pending new prison, we very much agree that Bredtvet women's prison, which has been up in the debate here, must be rehabilitated. I'm a little uncertain about the formulation of refurbishment of existing Oslo prisons as it is now to be moved, and what the use of resources will be like in terms of the effort on that part. But we will vote in favour of the proposal. If SV doesn't adjust it, we'll either vote for the proposal, and it's probably too late to adjust it now. With regard to the Green Party's proposals, they, as the representative, Eide, are knocking in very open doors. It has been said from everyone, including the government, that it must now be moved from Greenland, and it is clear that we are now working on new places. I see that the representative is not in the room now either, but kept the post, and it is difficult to understand what these are doing at all. But we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 5, which, after all, has a moment to say that the plot in Greenland will benefit the inhabitants of Old Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1571	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1580	The Judicial Committee shall present to the Stortinget a position on a case-by-case basis in a proposal from the Workers' Party, where proposers wish to remove the support for the Human Rights Service. In other words, it is a request to the government not to propose State aid to the Human Rights Service in next year's budget. It is also the case that the proposer believes that the government should remove the Human Rights Service's status as a humanitarian organisation. The rapporteur believes – as the rapporteur has understood – that the Human Rights Service does not meet the requirements of the criteria for increasing knowledge in the field of immigration. The proposer believes that Human Rights Service has become a blog of immigration criticism, and therefore they are not worthy of State aid. The rapporteur also believes that the proposal does not consider that the State aid to the Human Rights Service will be removed because they are not agreed. So it's not that you don't like Human Rights Service – they don't, either – but the formal thing is that you think there are some criteria that Human Rights Service doesn't satisfy to get this support. This case is supported by the Workers' Party, which has presented it, but also by the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Labour Party will explain this in more detail, I will count on. In the case proposal, it is the Progress Party that is more clearly opposed. They believe that the Human Rights Service is an important player in today's debate and that they definitely deserve state aid. I believe that the representative of the Progress Party will explain that very carefully. So I just want to thank the Justice Committee for the cooperation in this matter. It's an interesting thing that has many principal aspects that it's going to be exciting to discuss now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1593	Over the last few weeks, we have spent a lot of time in Norway discussing onlineness and how some politicians are exposed to so much heat that there is a threat to freedom of expression in Norway. I would like to thank all those who have stood up to onlineness in the last few weeks, among other things. several members of the Government. What I'm asking for is that we have a little more honest debate about onlineness, because onlineness does not occur in a vacuum; it comes from a place. And we know that what the authorities say is especially important. That's the prime example of that when Minister of Justice Sylvi Listhaug posted his Facebook mail. After Kripos reported that due to the social media activity of Norway’s Minister of Justice, the number of hate messages tripled in Norway. For me, it's an example of what the authorities are saying, not being trivialized by the fact that you would choose any other words, because it's with and withering the freedom of expression for others, it's with and withstood the mood. Human Rights Service is a blog that this government has received 2 million. kr every year. I believe that there is obviously a waste of taxpayers' money. But more important than that — spending money on dangerous tankers in Norway. Human Rights Service writes a lot that is ridiculous. They're writing about how Vy has become Islamized because they have green uniforms. They write how porn search in Sweden should be an example of Sweden’s Islamisation. But much more dangerous than that: they encourage the harassment of Muslims in Norway. They encourage you to take pictures of common Muslims you see on the street, and they name concrete Muslims. These included: an entry on the NRK that made a very big impression on me, where three women from Rogaland told about how they got a hate stream against themselves after they had participated in the family program The Family Cooks. They said they would never have participated if they had known what kind of crap they'd get after. This came after a look-up from the Human Rights Service. Samfundsdebattant Sumaya Jirde Ali has been compared to a cockroache, she has received a hate stream. She told me yesterday about how she has experienced this time. This government has supported the Human Rights Service. One thing was when the Progress Party was in. Everyone realized that it was the heart child of the Advancement Party. Now the Progress Party is out, and yet the government continues to grant them State aid. Monica Mæland writes to the Stortinget that she justifies and argues for the money that the grant should help to provide better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population, including knowledge of opportunities and challenges in this context. It has been so far impossible to get answers to what kind of knowledge Monica Meland, Right, Left, Advance Party and Christian People's Party believes that this blog represents. They know there's been a tougher environment on social media. There's a lot we have to do with it, but the first thing we have to do is to take out the Human Rights Service and other state aid. We have now tried all sorts of ways, both in the budget and here in the Stortinget. We're not going to get it. The only way to get it done is to get a new government after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1604	On the right, the Council of State agrees that whether the Human Rights Service is to receive grants from the Ministry of Justice and Defence for the budget of the Ministry of Justice for 2022 is a matter of ordinary budgetary procedure. And in the autumn of 2021 the government will send its proposal for the State budget for 2022 to the Stortinget, and it is therefore not natural to say anything about the content of it now. Members of the Department of Foreign Affairs, UNE, are appointed on the basis of Section 16-3 of the Foreign Regulation, and the Department makes a concrete assessment of which organisations meet the criteria of Section 16-3 of the Foreign Regulation, before each four-year term of appointment, can thus grant the right to submit proposals when new members are to be appointed. It is underlined that the persons who become members of the denominator do not represent the organisation they are proposed by, but only themselves. So the right is confident that the department's assessment is made in accordance with the criteria of the foreign regulation § 16-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1611	It is reassuring to experience how the Labour Party in this matter is manifestly illiberal, anti-democratic and authoritarian in its approach to what is a very important organisation that has worked in the integration field in Norway over several decades. There is evidence of a lack of knowledge, a lack of understanding of history, a lack of knowledge of where the important issues of the integration debate have come up, who has taken them up, how they have been raised, and why we have had debates. Yes, it is reassuring to experience such a small insight into the Norwegian integration debate. And to say that, if you want examples, like the Aukust representative is after, it's just to refer to the marriage, siblinghood, and the relationship between involuntary marriage and sexual assault. It is only to look at gender mutilation, posting and dumping of children abroad — often at Qur'an schools — that Muslim women lack rights, especially in relation to divorce, Sharia, for example — many issues that Human Rights Service has been instrumental in bringing about Norwegian political debate. But rather one chooses to try to silence the political opinions of one organisation that is actually a contradiction to a sea of left-wing propaganda that we experience in this field. They want to keep quiet, and they want to use undemocratic instruments to achieve it. Yes, this testifies to a left-hand side of free dressage, and we see to a greater extent – especially in the areas of immigration and integration – that there is not as much democratic mentality as it has been natural to have in the political change in Norway in the past. It is also about fear of contact with the religion of Islam. Yes, it's true that the Human Rights Service may have been a lonely cool thing about wiping out concrete challenges associated with Islam that represent scary, dangerous thoughts, which we see undermining freedom in large parts of the world. This must be allowed to be discussed, but of course it is not pleasant when you want to draw a picture of a kose Islam that is in no way representative of reality out there. I am concerned about the development of Norwegian policy when this is the standard for the political change of words in the field of immigration and integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1622	Under the hood. 291 of the State budget, item 71, for grants for integration work under the auspices of civil society and non-governmental organisations, there are in 2021 grants totalling EUR 153.7 million. kr. This includes named organisations with national resource status as well as different schemes where organisations can apply for funds for integration promotion. The grant for the Human Rights Service has a similar purpose and was given over the same post for many years. However, from 2019 onwards, the grant scheme was split so that the grant to HRS was specifically placed under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I do not agree with HRS in their comments. I also do not always agree with other organisations that receive support from the State budget. That's not the point either. Support for HRS is not the government’s priority, but is the result of the previous budget agreement in Stortinget, where it was agreed to increase support to other organisations with around 17 million. kr. Whether the grant is also to be given over the State budget for 2022 is – as I have stated in a letter to the Committee – a question that will be considered in connection with the government’s submission of proposals to the State budget for the following year to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2021. In spring 2020, the Stortinget addressed the rules on the appointment of members of the Board of Directors, and the Ministry outlined the legislative proposal for legislation and for which organisations had been invited to submit proposals for candidates in 2015. Reference was also made to the inclusion of HRS. The size was in favour of some changes in the law. It is no longer the King of the Council of States, but the Ministry who appoints members of the Board of Governors. Furthermore, neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is further promoting proposals for members of the Board of Appeal. Their task in this regard has been transferred to the Social Suites and the State administrators. However, the size did not change the rules that within the category ‘humanitarian organisations’ there are organisations working in the field of refugee, asylum or immigration which are to make proposals to nationals. Therefore, the selection of specific organisations was also left to a ministerial assessment in the autumn of 2020 within the framework of the Regulation. In the spring of 2020, when the Ministry selected organisations to be invited to make proposals, the practice from 2015 was followed by inviting organisations that at that time received grants to organisations working in the field. With regard to the question of which organisations the ministry should invite to propose members of the audience in 2024, I believe that it is not a discussion we need to take now. We want to carry out an evaluation of the last year's appointment process, which was based on the recently amended procedures. It is therefore also natural to consider whether further regulatory adjustments are warranted, including whether there is reason to change the criteria for which humanitarian organisations may be granted the right to propose. And in that case, it will be submitted to a hearing on it in good time before the next appointment in 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1646	After the Per-Willy Amundsen speech, I am most tempted to ask the Minister of Justice what she thinks about having been in government for so many years, and that he has been her predecessors as Norway's Minister of Justice – what she thinks about it being the previous Minister of Justice she heard – but I'm going to let her not answer it. I'm going to go to what she actually said. She said that this is not the government's priority. But the government has proposed it. Monica Mæland is solely responsible for what she proposes for the Storting and what she writes to the Stortinget. In the State budget, Monica Meland himself writes that the grant should contribute to a better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population. My specific question to Monica Mæland – and it has been impossible to get the Right, Left and Christian People's Party to respond to it, and I see that no one has subscribed to the debate either – is: What knowledge about immigration and integration does the Minister of Justice think HRS is contributing to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1655	As I have said many times in these debates, this has not been the government's priority, but the government takes full responsibility for promoting the proposal. It was an agreement that was made with the Progress Party, which led to an increase to other organisations of more than 17 million. kr. Then we thought that if we were to take out HRS, we would also have to take down the increased contribution. We didn't have to, but there's something about that we stand for agreements, and we have respect for those we have agreements with. I'm too diverse, I'm too free to speak, and I'm in favour of organisations that I deeply disagree with. In the case of HRS contributions in the field of immigration, the representative may mean what he wants, but it is in this field that they discuss. They set the agenda for difficult debates and opinions from which very many of us are very far away. That's not the point. The point is to take responsibility for organisations that believe something other than what many of us do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1664	That was interesting answers. Firstly, we have been told that there is no agreement. It has been argued in this Chamber, but when the Ministry of Justice had to answer, her political adviser replied that such an agreement does not exist. Of course she did not want to answer herself, but sent the consultant in front of her – so we have discovered that. Now I hear the Minister of Justice argue that it is absolutely right to give this support as long as it is within the freedom of expression. Then my question to the Minister of Justice: what kind of impression does it make when she hears voices telling about how much hatred they receive because of HRS? When three ordinary women stand up in the family kitchens and say that they receive a flood of hate after that, her answer is that we have to endure that someone disagrees with us. I can't stand people disagree with me. But that's not what this is about. The fact that this is a matter of freedom of expression is a completely misplaced debate. I hope that the Minister of Justice will no longer use that argument, because this is about what will be State aid from Norway. Then my question is to the Minister of Justice, and then I don't go to the law: is there any lower limit to what HRS can allow itself to write before it has any impact on their state aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1674	This commitment to agreement is very irrelevant. The point is that we're making a budget agreement with a party. We're in a minority and we're making a budget agreement. This results in increases, resulting in some adjustments. We also chose to deal with that agreement when we presented the state budget for this year, because the plan was to cooperate with the same party. If you call it an agreement or not – I feel that we have delivered a state budget, and I try to explain the background to it. I understand that the representative does not like it and has a number of premises for his question, which I do not understand. I take a strong distance from hateful statements. Then the representative does not want me to relate to the framework in the law. Yes, I do. I'm concerned that we have freedom of expression, and that it's also of a kind that many of us can feel can go very far, but it's the courts that interpret the law, and it's the courts that I'm dealing with. What's on the state budget next year, we don't get to know until we present the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1685	I'm not very busy with an appointment. I am concerned that the government will stand for what it stands for. It is the Council of State that argues with an agreement. And it is the representatives of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party who argue that there is an agreement, and that they must therefore propose it when they are both with and without the Progress Party. The council said it's the law she's dealing with. I am aware that the Council of State is dealing with the law. Of course, we're all doing that. But my question was not about that. It was about: Is there any lower limit to what you can allow to write and yet get state aid? There is nothing in the law that says that you should be able to get State aid only if you create a blog. I interpret the Council's response so that that limit does not exist. As long as it's within the law, the government will continue to give money to the Human Rights Service. Finally, I want to address the question of Human Rights Service as a humanitarian organisation. Does the Council of State think it was right that the Human Rights Service should be given the status of a humanitarian organisation in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1694	Just to make it clear: there is no human right for anyone to get state aid. There's an assessment we have to make, and there's an assessment we're doing. There's no human right to get it. It is a concrete assessment that must be made for every state budget, and I can promise that we will also do so in the next year's budget. The representative jumps smoothly over the fact that even in the red-green era, HRS received state aid. It sounds like there's a newcomer with this government, but it's not at all. They have also received that in the past, probably also on the grounds that they also support those with whom they deeply disagree. With regard to who makes proposals to members of the denominator, I think it is absolutely essential that the ceiling for whom proposals can be made should be very high. In fact, everyone should be able to make proposals to members of the public. That's not the point. The score is who is selected as denominators. So that's what we're doing, and that's what we're saying, but I think the ceiling for submitting proposals should be very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1703	On 12 May of this year, a report was published on the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ website entitled ‘2020 Report on International Religious Freedom: Norway’. On page ten of this report, it is claimed that the Human Rights Service supports an extreme right-wing extreme ideology that includes anti-Semitic and racist attitudes associated with the Nazis. It also appears that the source of this is the Anti-racist Centre, one of the other organisations receiving operating support from the State budget. If we're going to talk about disinformation, maybe there's other organizations we should look at more closely than the Human Rights Service. My challenge to the Council of State is: Will she take the initiative to look at organisations such as Anti-racist Centres as well, whether they deserve subsidies from the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1710	I do not know the report and not the source of the report. In general, I will answer as I have done earlier today. There is no human right for anyone to get state aid. There is an assessment that should be made concretely every year and that the government should do. It includes everyone, whether you agree with them or disagree with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1715	I address this question because the other organisations that get money on the state budget have not exactly excelled in contributing something specific to the political debate, made constructive contributions, other than placing themselves on the left side of Norwegian policy and speaking monomanically from a rather left-wing approach to immigration and integration policy, at my discretion totally useless organisations that have nothing to do with the state budget. But the only organisation that has a different starting point, which challenges the naturalities that politicians have adopted, and which poses concrete questions about relationships far into immigrant environments and Islam on which it is necessary to focus, should be deprived of support. Again, is it not problematic that we have organisations that contribute to the dissemination of opinions about other organisations for foreign policy purposes, which actually indirectly say that the Norwegian government supports an anti-Semitist, racist and Nazi organisation? Shouldn't that have any consequences for the Anti-racist Centers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1722	I think it is quite obvious that we should not support organisations that commit criminal acts and are judged for them. Otherwise, I believe that we should have good procedures to follow up on how government money is used, regardless of who receives it, that they are used in line with the objective, that you follow the accounting principles, that you submit reports, etc. In general, I think we should review this every year. Finally, it is the government, and then the Storting, who has to assess which organisations get state aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1732	Let me first tell the representative August that it is that someone is being persecuted and taken on social media: I can tell the representative that I myself had to run away, not because of blogs, but because of the media, the organization life, I escaped to Denmark together with my wife for three months. In fact, there are others who are also exposed to what the Aukust representative is concerned about. The left-hand side wants to own this debate, they want the power of definition. The Progress Party raised these HRS issues more than 20 years ago. It was rejected as intolerance, and later tougher words were used – with the media on the tow. That a representative of the Progress Party could be concerned with equality was an oxymoron. It was the left-hand side that had a monopoly on women's rights and equality. It was the left that had monopoly on women's place in society and how white conservative men held women back. As immigration increased, it became increasingly evident that now it was no longer ethnic Norwegian conservative men, but immigrants from countries where the role of women was defined as part of the cultural, political, historical and religious narrative, which did not practice equality. Now it was no longer possible to adopt equality in the Biggest – you couldn't do it anymore, it was simply not the politicians who were behind this. The left and the centre parties continue to argue for high levels of immigration and will not accept that, as a consequence, the fight for equality and an equal society is re-established. Then the left-hand side had to change the form of argument. Now it was suddenly the left side that talked about the freedom of individuals, the lack of equality was excused with cultural freedom and religious freedom – the left side, which had previously been hard on the fact that it was class struggle and the collective that was society’s ‘guidelines’. Today they experience that they are themselves responsible for increasing challenges, but refuse to accept the premises. They will in any case not be reminded of how it relates. Therefore, the fight against HRS is 1.8 million. kr so hard and so very important for the left-hand side. For Hege Storhaug has failed his own. She was part of the left side, but broke when she saw the paradox on the left side closed her eyes to. Thus, she was personally and HRS put on the hat. The left insists that the struggle for freedom should be promoted by women from immigrant communities, preferably with a tight-sitting hijab. Therefore, every word and expression used in the debate is analysed. And they insist on being factually resistant, only support the claim that it's the intention that's wrong. This is precisely why the desire of the Progress Party for lower immigration is stamped as nationalism, intolerance, egoism, lack of generosity and also Islamophobia – which today’s Minister of Culture in a debate at the time could shout out in the Chamber that Carl I. Hagen should kick a racist like me out of the party. Then he was rewarded with a government council post. The Minister of Culture has later come up with identical accusations against his own immigrant environment, so that's not what's being said, but who's saying it. The same is true of Hege Storhaug – I see that the time is running out, so I will come back to it in the next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1747	The party of progress must respect that they stand here on this pulpit and say that they mean it. No one is surprised by the views of the representatives of the Progress Party in this debate. What I'm surprised about, and what I'm disappointed about, is, where are the Christian People's Party and the Left? And: Where are the representatives from the Right, who seem to like to show up in the media that they think it's right to cut support for the Human Rights Service? I think one should stand for it and say, and even if I don't share the analysis or the content of the articles from the Progress Party that are up to now, at least they're up here and say something and take their position. I think the government party should be involved in this debate and not put its head in the sand. It's not that it's not possible to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal to cut support for the Human Rights Service if one thinks so. It can be done, and I also think it could be a pretty real thing to do to the organisation Human Rights Service, so they're already getting what they're doing right now that from 2022 it's going to end, almost independently of who's going to be in government. But it is just as my colleague, Åsmund Aukrust, said in his post: there is no doubt that if an organisation of this calibre does not receive state aid, we need a new government. Because the debate is not about us like what the Human Rights Service says or mein says. The question is whether they should get money from the community based on the criteria mentioned in the budget. I don't think that's right. In the previous debate, both the representative Ola Elvestuen and others from the Christian People's Party and the Left were here. Now they're not in the hall. It seemed sad to me, because I know that there is actually a number in this room to do what we are proposing today, but we are not getting any idea of that either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1763	Democracy and freedom of expression can be difficult, and it's a little surprising to me that the Workers' Party, which should know something about democracy and freedom of expression, has so much trouble accepting it. It is surprising that a party such as the Workers' Party attacks an organisation because they don't like the message, and especially in a field where there is a sea of state-aided organisations that believe about the same thing. And then there's one organization that's a little bit different from the others, and then you want to take their state aid because you don't like the message. There is no problem in finding statements and overstepping from a number of organisations that receive State aid. Anti-racist centres have been mentioned. They do a lot of good, but they have also trod a number of times across the line, spreading disinformation and attitudes that don't belong anywhere, spreading things they don't get state aid for, and breaking the criteria if you're going to be detailed about it. Then we hear nothing. There is no one who wants to attack State aid – because they have the right political point of view. That is a democratic problem. We have the NRK, which absolutely lives on state aid, which has had journalists spreading gross anti-Semitism propaganda, without requiring us to cut the money support to the NRK for that reason. It is a democratic problem that we have parties that operate that way. And when we talk about disinformation – if it's going to be a requirement: I'm going to be the first one to say that I disagree very much with much of what's come from HRS, and I disagree with almost everything that comes from everyone else, but I haven't decided to take the state aid from individuals. I think we should be in principle and take the state aid from everyone if you think this is wrong. That is the position of the Progress Party. In the debate on immigration in particular, there is disinformation about a low level of footwear – such as the fact that the asylum system in today’s Europe is good, but actually leads to people dying in the experiment. I think that is gross disinformation spread by organisations such as the United Kingdom. NOAS, and politicians listen and implement their policies, with the result that people drown in the attempt. I think that's gross. But I haven't decided to take their state aid because I don't like their opinions. When the Workers' Party has such a low-principle attitude towards democracy and freedom of expression, I get a little scared.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1776	I'm going to admit that this is a demanding debate, and we also hear the comments that are coming, that there are very strong fronts. We are not discussing immigration in general now – there are some who are trying to draw this up for a broader debate on immigration, and there are also some who are trying to draw up a debate on State aid to the Anti-racist Centres. Actually, that's not what we're talking about. We discuss whether we should grant State aid to the Human Rights Service in line with the criteria set by the government and the criterion set out is that these types of organisations should receive state aid if they contribute to increasing knowledge of the immigration field. As we heard before, the Minister of Justice was challenged by what knowledge about immigration Human Rights Service has brought us, and we are therefore unable to get an answer to it. So if we're going to stick to the formalities here: what we're now challenging the government parties is whether they can come up with some kind of evidence that the Human Rights Service meets the formal criteria for state aid. The opposition, which is behind this proposal, is unable to hear it. In this way, we believe it is right now to make a request to the government that that support be removed, precisely because we are not able to see, and the government is not able to prove that the Human Rights Service meets the criteria that the government itself believes are important. So this is not about whether we should grant state aid to those we don't like, as the representative Engen-Helgheim is trying to make it sound like. I believe that everyone in this Chamber, including the Workers' Party and the SV, agrees that State aid to organisations should contribute to diversity and freedom of expression, and that State aid should in fact also protect and support those we do not like. It's important to point out. State aid should protect if and must be a contribution to those we do not actually like. It is absolutely crucial in a modern democracy. So that's not what this is about, as the representative, Engen-Helgheim, is trying to make it sound like – it's not about it. It's about whether Human Rights Service actually meets the basic criteria. I've been through the writings of the Human Rights Service. There is only criticism – there is only quite a criticism of Norwegian immigration policy. There is no information or knowledge dissemination in this, and if you add up what's in the comments fields, it ends up with a rather hateful mood for immigration. So, based on my somewhat amateur reading of this, I can't see that the Human Rights Service takes care of the basic criterion that the government itself has set for state aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1787	The criteria for this grant to HRS state that the grant shall contribute to providing better knowledge of immigration and integration into the population, including knowledge of opportunities and challenges in this context. If the representative Eide has not found out that HRS points to challenges in immigration policy, then I wonder where he has been. If HRS is doing something, it is challenging the policy pursued, but also pointing to challenges in general, internationally and in Norway. So they meet what are the criteria for getting support. They have also published reports. The comments say that they have not contributed anything. It is up to the parties themselves to invite them in – the Aukrust representative and the Workers' Party. They can invite HRS into the group, they get the information they say they don't get. You can get it from HRS itself. It is the Workers' Party that must contact them, it is not those who make contact with the Workers' Party. There's no problem. They can do that the next time, they don't want to make any suggestions based on ignorance. So it's interesting – it's the fight against Hege Storhaug that's behind it. She's a chain. She left the flock. She was an activist on the left, along with some in this room. But she saw the deception that the left side did when it came to immigration. She could not accept the lack of equality that came through immigration policy. She wouldn't be a part of it. She was the one who marched in the train in 1975, in the woman's year, the most eager for equality, and also homophile. She saw another threat that came with immigration. Now they're going to take her personally for 1.8 million. kr, it is important for the representative of Auversut to take her. Then he thinks this should go well. Then Islamnet would have five million. kr. I'll be fine. Perhaps the representative of August would go into the rights.no and read what was standing there, go back and look at the reports and what they've got, as the representative of Amundsen was about. Follow me in time. Look out of the window. Look what's happening around us. See what people experience in their own neighborhood. What are the problems of immigration? Yes, you can see it everywhere. Then there's one organization, for 1.8 million. kr over the state budget, which is the major problem. It falls on its own unreasonableness. But it has obviously become an ideological campaign against HRS for the Aukust representative. But they want the power of definition, that's what it says. The left will have the power of definition over equality, equivalency and freedom of expression. But then they have to go down at the level of personal freedom, and that is the right-hand side that has had monopoly. That's not true. HRS doesn't fit in, regardless of whether there are 20 or 30 other organizations; HRS has to go away. Therefore, a new government will remove support for HRS. So I warn people out there: vote on the blue side if you want to balance the argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1798	Let me start by thanking Tybring-Gjedde, Per-Willy Amundsen, Jon Engen-Helgheim, yes, the Progress Party, for actually participating in the debate. Right, Left and Christian People's Party is not possible to get a word out of it. And the state councils come up with some bureaucratic answers. But there is also a stop to the boasting of the Party of Advancement. That's how you almost don't believe what you hear. It is almost impossible to believe that Erna Solberg believed that Per-Willy Amundsen was the most suitable Minister of Justice Norway could have. I'm actually seriously wondering what Monica Meland thinks about her sitting around the King's table with Per-Willy Amundsen, when she hears what is being cursed from the Storting's pulpit. This summer it's been ten years since July 22nd – 10 years since 77 people were killed. We know that there was one person behind the actions, but there are many who share the views. They're talking about a lonely wolf. But if there's something we've learned in the last ten years, it's not a lonely wolf, it's an entire flock, and they meet online. When the PST was due to present its safety assessment for this year, they wrote that the presence on the right-wing radical digital forums acts as an gateway to right-wing extremism. But even those warnings did not impress the Minister of Justice. Right, Left and Christian People's Party is talking about $2 million. kr and in a way minimizes the fact that there is little money. But then they have misunderstood what this is all about. This is not about any budget line. It is about contributing to the state’s participation and funding of a blog that we know deprives many people in Norway of freedom of expression, which contributes to a more hateful climate of debate, and which PST also believes poses a threat to Norway. I have no need to be lectured by the Progress Party on Democracy. The party that requires airlines to remove the warehouses from their aircraft – the party of appointed justice ministers who burn the local authorities because they disagree with what they say. We in the Labour Party know very well what democracy is all about. And it's not about what you like and what you don't like. It has nothing to do with the debate. Fortunately, there is a whole bunch of organizations that get state aid, and I don't like it, I disagree with most of what they stand for, but that's not what it's about. It's about the fact that there's a limit to what we accept in Norwegian society. There is a limit to the nature of the positions to be taken by the State and to the financing and granting of State aid. Let me end again by saying that until summer it's been ten years since July 22nd. It has been said that we have not been given the political settlement with it. It has been said that the AUF and the Workers' Party have been left to themselves in that settlement. I read a very good chronicle Young Right wrote in Our Country, where they said that the right side has not been present in the debate, and that the Right Party must do more to take these attitudes seriously. Then I encourage the Right Representatives in this debate to look at themselves in the mirror and think about how they have contributed to this debate, when the matter is actually discussed in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1817	A new government was called, by the representative, Mr. Wagslid, and they called for other debaters in this matter, among others. Christian People's Party. The drum in this case is freedom of speech. We have a lot of organizations on the left hand side that get a lot of support, and we're not some of them in positions, but the opposition doesn't like HRS, because they ask questions other than what they like. The Christian People's Party is for freedom of expression, and we trust that the criteria for support are taken into consideration, as the Council of State notes. The opposition cannot prove what they are asking for, that the criteria are broken. I haven't heard one word about it in the debate so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1824	It's not like we're just standing here and seeing. We have written you an setting for this matter, which is a good answer to the challenge I was given. One may consider whether the HRS qualifies for the criteria it stands for. In this setting, we can read that since 2015, HRS has not published any reports, notes or other specific products. The Foundation focuses on the work on the rights.no website and sharing these texts on Facebook. We also refer to a report on right-wing extremism from Politihøgskolan and C-REX – the Center for Extremism Research from 2018. Researchers note that HRS is one of the most frequently used websites for commenting threads with hateful content and conspiracy talk in Facebook groups in extreme right-wing landscapes. As I say, as these members, who are the Labour Party and SV, see it as problematic that a blog that publishes both unilateral and sometimes discriminatory news articles, is given the legitimacy of the Norwegian government and the majority of the population through state support over the state budget. If it's the case that the Christian People's Party thinks it's okay to do it, it's the Christian People's Party's view. It's just that after a while there are quite a number of representatives from the Christian People's Party, especially from the Left, but also from the Right, from Lene Westgaard-Halle, who have a clear voice that it must support away. After all, the party of progress and the Labour Party are totally disunity in this matter. It's not a surprise, but that the Progress Party is going to start talking about respect for freedom of expression, I'm almost hard to take seriously. The party has had representatives who have written newspapers, encouraged the boycott of newspapers and wanted to remove money support for an aviation magazine because there was something there that they didn't like. I don't think we should bring the debate down to that level. Here's the proposal that we believe that the state support Human Rights Service gets, is not in line with the criteria that stand, and we also believe that this is research-friendly evidence, which we refer to in the setting, so that the authorities shouldn't grant state aid, and so on to the community, to that organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1841	The Progress Party has always been the only clear, uncompromising defender of freedom of expression. To the representative who is here when she talks about bringing the debate down to a low level, it is probably better if she refers to her own co-representative of her own party, the Aukust representative, who, revealingly, lowers himself to a level that I am not familiar with from this pulpit. The representative in question is using personal attacks on the undersigned in a way that I have never experienced in my time in Stortinget. It might say the most about that representative and maybe more about whether you're right in the debate. You may have lost while using a person attack. I could, of course, claim that the representative is knowledgeless, intolerant and authoritarian, but I think that is too good. What I want to demand in this debate, on the other hand, is the Central Party. For the Centre Party is in the hands of the red-greens and wants to take the state aid from HRS. Where's the Center Party? I haven't heard them today. What do they mean? Why do they consider it appropriate to remove State aid to HRS? It might be a little more timely to ask them what the small parties in the government think, if you want to ask questions about it. Then I was in my reply to the Council of State that we have an organisation, Anti-racist Centers, that makes claims that are also the basis for reports that the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs is publishing on its websites, where it is claimed that the organisation we are discussing today, which is receiving state aid, conducts anti-semitism, is racist and promotes Nazism – quite extreme claims, and especially when it is an organisation that receives state aid. There is reason to ask questions from several of these organisations and receive the money they receive. If results are to be required, if results are to be measured by the Workers' Party, as is the case in this debate, none of the other left-wing organisations are at all contributing to anything other than word-changing on the left-hand side of the political debate. So let's take away all the grants to all the organizations -- let's stop handing out money to organizations that do nothing but promote a political attitude that belongs far out on the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1854	Mr Aukrust has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1859	Per-Willy Amundsen cannot be used to a very harsh debate climate if he believes that my post is the hardest he's ever heard. I just said that I totally disagreed with Erna Solberg's assessment that he was the best qualified in Norway to be Minister of Justice. That's what I said. – Then you might think it’s a hard attack, but I’m now at least standing for it. But one thing Per-Willy Amundsen should have is that he participates. I just want to say that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party leave the entire right side stage to the Progress Party and let the Advance Party become the figures for the money support HRS gets. We know they're tough on social media. They say in social media that HRS doesn't deserve a crown of support, but they don't grant money and participate in the debate. At least then I'm glad a new government is going to say that it's going to be removed. Jonas Gahr Støre has said that he does it the first day at work. That's why I'm going to end by doing something I didn't think I should do, I'm going to quote Tybring-Gjedde, which ended up saying that if you want HRS to continue to get state aid, you have to vote on the blue parties, because it's still the guarantor that HRS is going to get state aid. If you want something else, you have to vote for one of the red-green parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1868	Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1873	I really just want to comment a little bit on what has been partly commented on in this debate, what is about onlineness. I think it's interesting that it's only when the left-hand side is hit by onlineness, it's turned up in big headlines in the media, that it's when the discussion comes up and that's when the left-hand side is so worried. There are many in the political landscape – and it is well documented that it is primarily Progress Party politicians – who are exposed to heat. I record that it is not as interesting to discuss. What you're concerned about is the left-hand side. Once again it shows the battle side we have in the political change of words, especially in this area. There's a taus majority out there that thinks something very different than the will this big thing stands for, and that's the basic problem. The eyesight and the eye-catchers are indifferent to what people out there mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1881	Mrs Läne Vågslid has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1886	It is only to note that my colleague in the Progress Party of Per-Willy Amundsen does not take into account research. He thinks it's visual -- he'll have to do that. I just want to end by saying that I and the Working Party want to distance themselves from all kinds of onlineness, hoarseness, sheikhs and trugs, regardless of who it frames, regardless of the party, regardless of where one comes from. Therefore, it is unlikely that the Progress Party will make this debate the conspiracy theory of the Labour Party and of the Left. The proposal we are making today will be a last attempt before the collapse option. I agree with Åsmund Aukrust, and I will also quote Tybring-Gjedde. If you still want to support the Human Rights Service, it's probably safe to vote on the blues – if you want a change, you have to vote on the red-green parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1895	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1912	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1919	We're assuming that the debate temperature might drop a little bit with this, even though this is also an interesting and principleal proposal where there are obvious differences. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs put forward here a proposal from the Progress Party on stricter criminal responses to the use of fire bombs and other dangers to the police. I will read the proposal: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for legislative changes to ensure that the use of fire bombs and similar very serious acts addressed to police and courts is subject to penalties as severe as terrorist activities.’ Proposalers assume that police reports of increased aggression against the police from children up to 13 years of age, are presented in the proposal. And the proposer then believes that the kind of aggression that fire bombs and other types of danger represent must be punished as severely as terror. And they believe, then, that criminal justice should be dealt with by this equivalent terrorist law. That is what the proposal is all about. Then it is important for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, just to mention that this committee has also dealt with several cases in the Stortinge in the last year dealing with stricter criminal reactions to violence and various attacks on the police. The proposals proposed in those cases by the Progress Party, which is now the author of the proposal, have not been received by a majority. The Committee is divided in such a way that the Right and Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre reject the proposals of the Progress Party, and I believe that the Progress Party itself, as the proposer, will come up and inform the background to its proposal. It has been a simple and tidy matter to manage this work, and the committee has behaved neatly and tidyly, and we have come up with a clear presentation of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1935	I think we should start with what we all agree on, that fire bombs and other serious attacks on the police and courts are reprehensible crime. Strict penalties have been imposed, and even more severe penalties have been imposed since we adopted more severe penalties for this – last autumn, it was. Then I'm probably in disagreement with the proposal that we're debating right now. I think we're starting at the wrong end. We're turning down on some of the legal principles and the criminal justice system that we know. The proposal suggests that we take the methods used rather than the terrorist persuasion itself, which should, of course, be the central one. It might be possible to read the proposal a little bit differently. Either you want to rub the attacks on the police and courts like terrorism, and I don't think that's right. A fire-fighting attack at a police station can be terrorism, there may also be other serious crime, but it is the terrorist perpetrator who must be the central one, not the methods you use. You can also read the proposal as if you don't think of it as terrorism, but that you want to lift it up as a criminal law category, as if it were war crimes and assimilated to terror and other serious crimes. And that's perhaps what's the most natural thing to read the suggestion that. I still think it might be a bit of a primitive legislative technique, if I'm going to be honest. The decisive factor in whether to punish something by 30 years or at a maximum limit of 21 years cannot be whether to use pyrotechnics in the attack or not, to put it a little on the verge. The right is definitely involved in a discussion on stricter penalties. It's a debate that we're trying to travel all the time. We are fundamental followers of more severe punishments for the crime that affects others, or that affects the government, our democracy. It's a debate we take at any time, but we have to sort of stay within the systems and principles that we know. The fact that we are now going to raise this almost at the level of war crimes and terrorism without further reflection around it, it might be a bit too far to go. But I think it's an interesting discussion isolated, and I think, as I said, that the Storting can gather about a desire to downplay what might be of trends and developments towards attack and lack of respect for the rule of law and the police, who are to enforce law and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1946	We've seen over time a development in which the police are increasingly under attack and violence, and they are increasingly seen as a hostile and legitimate goal in demonstrations and various contexts, which is a very dangerous development. This is something that has been imported into Norway, which we have seen in other countries, but which is now spreading around in Norway, and we have seen it over time. That's why it's important to put your foot down clearly. Attacks on the police are not taken lightly. Attacks on the state and its important functions — in courts — are not taken lightly. Yes, it will have major consequences and will provide significant penalties if you choose to do so. The starting point for this case was a single event. On Saturday 20 March this year, a fire bomb was dropped against Stovner Police Station in Oslo. And yes, it's not about pyrotechnics, which the representative from the Right was in. It's about the seriousness. Fortunately, it did not go bad this time, but attacking the police with fire bombs is basically so serious that it must be severely punished. It must be punished clearly, and it must have consequences for those involved. When we see that young people, children down to the age of 13, are practicing violence and trying to attack the police, it's time to respond. It's true, as many people have said, that the Progress Party has addressed these issues on a number of occasions, and we will continue to do so. For if the state monopoly of violence, the monopoly of power of the state, is to be challenged by criminal elements that even use instruments such as fire bombs, yes, then we as a society must react, and we must react strongly. It is also a political side to these things. We're constantly looking at demonstrations where it kind of gets more and more legitimized, and where it seems more and more good for young people to use violence and attack the police. We have many examples of this in the capital, and we also see it in a number of other cities in Norway, and then it's time to react strongly and clearly. That is what the Progress Party is doing with these proposals. It should be very deterrent, it should help to ensure that people do not choose to challenge the police or choose to challenge the courts with the kind of tool we saw on Saturday, March 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1957	Will the representative address the proposal behind the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1962	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1967	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1972	I know the area and the environment where this event happened, and I've been following similar issues, including: I was present with other nightfalls when two to three years ago they tried, kind of, to light up at that police station. So it's not an isolated event. Tuesday evening before this Saturday, it was among other things. There was also an attack on police where 15–20 young people in this area were involved, using different words, and this happened on Saturday. There have been these kinds of events or serious things that have happened, which there is reason to take on the greatest seriousness, such as, among other things. The representative Amundsen and all those who have spoken were present. What I want to say about this area in particular is that Satudarah – an internationally dangerous criminal organization that is known globally and has its main starting point in the Netherlands, but which is both in Southeast Asia and in Denmark – now has a ‘chapter’ also in this particular area, where the head of the chapter is holding. It's clear that this is a hard-boiled professional criminal gang that just has it as part of its strategy to build enmity and fronts against the police and push youths in front of them. These are the young people we can prevent from facing, but we need to be aware that there are conscious criminal forces behind, including in this area. There's a lot of reason to take this very seriously, especially in the light of that picture. Fortunately, we are going to deal with a proposal to ban criminals repeat later in the session, and there we come back to some of these issues. I would like to say that I have had good and close contact with the police, unit east, about the work on this matter, because it worries me. They have taken it very seriously and really worked well and put a lot of resources into investigating the matter thoroughly. Four pieces were held in custody, and as far as I know, there is at least one charge against two. I am concerned that we should first look at the legal and criminal frameworks that the police can use when they are asked to investigate this matter and to bring them to justice. Therefore, I also believe that there is no basis for going into this proposal today, because I would like to have the experience of how such a type of case, which we have not seen so many similar examples in Norway, can be corrected, and how the police find out they can go to court.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1981	I am behind the post of Frölich as a reason for why we do not support the proposal either. I also mean my colleague Jan Bøhler had some good considerations at the end about why it might make sense to wait. It was said from Per-Willy Amundsen that now it's important that it gets caught. Now I'm going to do something that might be a little weird, because it's actually a little bit of government brag, but in June 2020 we got in agreement to tighten up the penalties for the firing of weapons or the use of explosives or other aircraft that could be able to choose the danger for police service personnel, as it says in the setting. There was also a penalty for serious violence or threats against public service personnel with a prison sentence of up to six years. I think it was very important that they were arrested. Threats and violence against the police are very serious, and we have also seen in the Police Forum that we have had cases that show serious, serious violence episodes against the Norwegian police. I just wanted to do the right thing for why we don't like the proposal from the Progress Party, and I thought it was done for otherwise in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e1990	Initially, I want to make it clear that the use of fire bombs and other attacks against the police are very serious crimes that must be severely punished. The police have a special social mission to maintain public order, and such crimes affect the ability of police to perform service missions and protect the population. Such actions also represent a significant risk of life loss or serious harm. I would therefore like to stress the importance of combating this type of crime. On a proposal from the government, last year the Stortinget decided to tighten up the penalty framework for attacks against the police. Attacks against a police officer using firearms or explosives provide a minimum sentence of one year in prison, but may lead to imprisonment for up to 10 years. If murder intentions can be proven, the act may be punished as a attempted murder, which may have a prison penalty of up to 21 years. Penalties are sufficiently clear to provide the courts with flexibility to measure a penalty that, in the specific case, reflects the seriousness of the offence, the blame and other relevant circumstances. In order to be punished for a terrorist act, the perpetrator must have committed specified criminal offences, such as: killing or damage to the body, with a view to terror. The conditions are very strict. The prison sentence is up to 21 years old, and the penalty level is very high. Terrorism is most often committed with deliberations and after thorough preparation and planning. For the most serious acts of terrorism, prison sentences last up to 30 years. Serious acts of terrorism are in a special position in terms of criminality, and the increased criminal framework is reserved for exceptional cases. I have noticed that a solid majority of the Judicial Committee believes that a maximum 30-year sentence in the Penal Code should be reserved for serious acts of terrorism and genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. We agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2004	First of all, as the case rapporteur, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a typographical error in the setting, and it is okay that it is said. On page 2 of the statement - I especially ask the committee chairman to check it, so that we are 100 pst. ensure that this is the case – it is subject to the majority of the Committee: ‘The members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left point out that it is not difficult to disagree’. So there's a double refusal. It shall read: ‘shows that there is no difficulty in agreeing’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2014	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2019	Fine, thank you. Then I will make an article about the matter itself. I think it is important that we discuss the level of punishment in Norway, and it is of course important that we discuss the level of punishment for attacks on the police. Penalties must be a natural response to crime, but, as we agree, they must also be preventive, or even deterrent, as many would think. In such cases and in the last year, the Progress Party has put forward a number of proposals for stricter penalties, especially for attacks against the police. I believe that this should be taken seriously by the Storting, but when the Storing is going to deal with such matters, it must be a decision-making basis and a knowledge underlying those proposals. We must therefore know whether the proposals for stricter penalties actually work. It does not add the Progress Party to its proposals. We need to know how big or how little the problem is. Nor do we know anything about this on the basis of the proposals of the Progress Party. Nor do we have sources of the claims of the Progress Party in such cases that this is an increasing problem. Where did they get that? Nor do we have anything in the Progress Party's proposal on other ways of preventing this type of crime. I believe, as I have written in a note, that it is quite irresponsible of us, the Stortinget, to adopt stricter penalties on such a weak decision-making basis as the Progress Party proposes. So I just want to say in general that the relationship between punishment and crime is complicated. Norway is a country with little crime if we compare with international relations, and we also have quite low penalties, so only the logic of the Progress Party falls. If we compare states in the United States with the death penalty and states in the United States without the death penalty, we will see that there is no link between the death penalty and non-lethal states. So the logic that stricter penalties immediately lead to less crime is not necessarily related, and thus a lot of that logic falls. We must then also wonder whether the Progress Party is constantly proposing this without taking into account the knowledge base for it, but it is solely based on political and right-wing populistic points.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2030	Then the President has seen with satisfaction that a small letter can change the whole meaning – a double-denial with a ‘u’ that did not belong there. That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2035	It is in so far as an interesting discussion by the representative Eide is concerned about the relationship between crime, the use of punishment and the general preventive considerations. I think it's raised beyond any doubt that the general preventive effect of severe penalties is completely indisputable. It is quite clear that the use of more stringent penalties is a matter of general prevention. It is also about how we as a society choose to react when we see the negative development that is – otherwise, unlike what the representative Eide claims from this speaker – which is well documented, which has become very visible, which has changed relatively quickly over a few years, and which is obviously a problem imported from abroad. If we are to discuss the use of punishment and whether it has any effect, it is quite right, as the representative Eide says, that in Norway, fortunately, at least historically, we have had little crime. But we see changes in the area that must also be seen in the context of cultural background. It is quite obvious that Norwegian culture is a pretty strong reason why there is relatively little crime in this country. It's about trust between people, it's about a good society built over the centuries. I think it's too easy to compare Norway with a country where they have a death penalty, and say that there is still more crime where you have a death penalty than you have in Norway. There are completely different variables – and I think the real representative, Eide, is fully aware of that – that have to be taken into account if we are to assess the relationship between the punishment and the extent of crime that we see in society. It is therefore quite clear that there are general preventive effects by applying strict penalties – it is really the basis of our entire legal system and our use of penalties. But from us who sees that someone is trying to represent it as a little populist that we're dealing with these things: No, it's not populist. I think it is important that we react as early as possible, at an early stage, and that the Storting is very clear that attacking the police and attacking the courts is so much less acceptable and so debilitating that it will have severe consequences. That is the background to our proposal, and we are taking a discussion on the relationship between punishment and crime at another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2044	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2061	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2068	This issue is about Norway's participation in the Creative Europe programme. Political agreement on the Programme Regulation was reached in the EU and the case was adopted on 19 May this year. The Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council now establishes this programme for 2021-2027, and the Stortinget is invited to agree that Norway may become a participant in the programme. A separate committee will be set up and Norway will participate in it with the same rights and obligations as the Member States, with the exception of voting rights. The participation requires that we participate financially. For the entire period, it will amount to about 25 billion. SEK at 2021 prices. The EEA Decision does not entail amendments to Norwegian laws. The programme is part of the EU’s long-term budget for 2021–2027 and the human investment chapter. Other programmes are included here, for example: in the education and social fields. Like them, Creative Europe shall promote common European identity, coherence and diversity, and it shall strengthen political and civil engagement and participation and protect fundamental values and rights. The objective of Creative Europe, the EU programme for culture and the audiovisual sector, is to promote cultural diversity, linguistic diversity and cultural heritage, and to promote economic competitiveness in the sector. In concrete terms, this means that actors in film, television, art and culture are given opportunities to cooperate internationally and reach a larger market. Participation brings great economic gains and also artistic and cultural experience and competence to Norwegian members. The evaluation, carried out by Menon Economics in 2018, showed that programme participation brings great benefits in addition to project funding. The objectives and priorities of the Programme are consistent with the Norwegian national objectives and priorities set out in the Culture Communication. Participation in this programme is therefore also contributing to the achievement of national targets. It has two proposals, one on inclusion and the other on budgetary appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2081	For the Central Party, in this case, it is a matter of principle when it comes to dealing with matters. It is the central party's clear belief that these types of cases will be dealt with in the EEA Committee before they are dealt with in the Stortinget. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in a number of EEA cases that have occurred in this big business session, i.e. 2021. That is why we propose to send the matter back to the government, and this is the way forward. In addition, something that, in isolation, has not so much to do with this matter: the centre party is concerned about the total sum that we have to pay into the EU every year, and that, after I understand it, now is up to 4.5 billion. kr per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2088	The representative, Olav Urbø, then addressed the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2093	I take the floor in this case not only to commend the committee for having received a correct and important decision, but to use the case of Norway's participation in the European Creative Europe programme as an illustration of a particular feature of Norwegian policy which I seem to be approaching the parody. It may be known that, in particular, one lot in this room has made a number of lying in the sieve, waiting for something to go wrong in the context of the EEA Agreement of Norway and the benefits of European cooperation for Norway. When it is not possible to point out anything that goes wrong, the lot is routinely referring to either the over-expensive nature of the project, or to the possibility of being subjected to or trampled on for various administrative, formal or bureaucratic reasons. We see that all the points apply to the case and the Center Party today. I dare to argue that Creative Europe has brought to Norwegian cultural life invaluable gains in the years that have gone on since Norway's participation in 2014. The Menon report of 2018 points to a number of factors in addition to the fact that Norwegian companies, institutions and organisations have gained access to it over the years. Norway has got out more than what we've put into creative Europe. I'll be careful to refer to a couple of examples. Norwegian actors have learned significantly from the European cultural sector over these years. This has given us innovation strength, strengthened us through competition with the best and contributed to a number of projects that are reaching high in international contexts. The application for funds in high-end international competition contributes to the enhancement of competence by itself. If Norwegian culture and media expression have something to do internationally in the future, we need to be prepared to measure ourselves with the best, and that gives Creative Europe the opportunity. In a 2018 survey, carried out by Menon, 72 pst. by respondents — all of whom had participated in the programme — that Creative Europe offers to a large extent or to a large extent opportunities that Norwegian actors do not have access to elsewhere. So this is what the Center Party wants to train by sending the matter back to the government. The reason is that the matter will be discussed in the EEA Committee, otherwise a committee I regularly meet in. In spite of the fact that it is made clear from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture that the decision of the EEA Committee in June or July will be resubmitted to the Stortinget Committee. The Minister of Culture stresses the importance of Norway’s participation in this new programme from the start. I mean that too. And with my knowledge of the EEA Committee, which is also represented by the Centre Party, there is every reason to advance support for the participation of the Programme from there. I can therefore not see the comments of the Centre Party in this setting as an expression other than a pure training, a training I believe Bodø as a cultural capital in 2024 and Norwegian cultural life in general should be noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2110	I would like to thank the Family and Culture Committee for the work on the suspension and for the recommendation on the Storting's consent to the inclusion of the EU cultural programme, Creative Europe, in the EEA Agreement. Norway thus has access to the absolute largest and most important cooperation platform for all sectors of the European cultural sector. 40 countries are now participating in the Creative Europe Programme — there is no such thing. The Programme works for European cultural and linguistic diversity and European cultural heritage. At the same time, the Programme promotes economics, competitiveness and innovation in the cultural and creative sector in Europe. The objectives of the Programme are consistent with our national objectives and with Norwegian European policy. Norway has participated in European cultural cooperation since the beginning of the 1990s, with high yields. The evaluations show that Norwegian cultural and media sectors and Norwegian cultural and creative industries receive knowledge and innovation, new audiences and new markets, new professional networks and new funding. Creative Europe provides financial grants and access to a European market for cultural products providing revenue, cooperation, networks and competences. We've earned in Creative Europe, and the investment pays off. In total, Norway has now benefited from more financial support than paid-up quotas, and there is potential for more extraction in the years to come. Creative Europe is a top priority in the EU’s long-term budget for 2021–2027, together with the major high-profile education, research, digitisation and health programmes. With an increased budget, the programme will make special contributions to reconstruction, job creation, growth and post-pandemic development. The EU thus demonstrates that cultural and creative sectors are essential for strengthening Europe from below, both economically, politically and culturally. The Creative Europe Programme is also part of a broader EU effort to combat disinformation and strengthen editorial news media and diversity of content. Creative Europe is also an increasingly important European arena for cultural cooperation, exchange of experience and innovation. EU cultural ministers develop agendas and action plans that are followed up in the programme. Norway benefits from opportunities and benefits created through international cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2131	The question that Urbø's representative raised here, about the principle of how this case is handled, is something that the Storting should bear in mind. To the representative Grimstad’s description of the form of treatment – as if we contribute to postponing and denigrating for bureaucratic reasons: No, it is about how we deal democratically, in the national parliament of the country, with issues relating to Norway’s participation in EU decisions that have financial implications for Norway over the years. In the case here, it was calculated at more than 600 million. kr during the period. The representative of Grimstad, who, when we point to the fact that the matter has not been dealt with in the EEA Committee, says that both he and the representatives of the Central Party are constantly meeting in the EEA Committee, and that there is no basis for believing anything other than that one agrees with this proposal: then the representative of Grimstad is completely rotating on what this is all about. The EEA Committee is not a body on the Stortinget – I do not know if it is the European Committee that the representative Grimstad tried to refer to. The EEA Committee is a joint body in the EEA structure, between the EFTA countries of the EEA on the one hand and the EU on the other hand, in which the formal framework for EFTA countries of the EEA is clarified its participation in various decisions. It is only through the decision that the framework for Norwegian participation and what becomes Norwegian commitments at last through those decisions are clarified. That's exactly why it's important that we do things in the right order. The centre party is open to discuss the matter when we have a basis from the EEA Committee to decide. But that one here has an early treatment in Stortinget, before we know what is the final framework for the decision that Stortinget accepted – that is unwise. As the national Parliament of the country, the size should know how to deal with matters in the right order and in a responsible and wise manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 17 and 18 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2173	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2182	In this case, the majority endorses the implementation of the EU Directive on accessibility to public bodies’ websites and mobile applications and the necessary changes to the equality and non-discrimination law, in order to implement the Directive in Norwegian law. This will mainly involve new requirements for the universal design of new intranets and extra-nets and pre-recorded time-based media, as well as new requirements for accessibility declarations and feedback function. It helps to make services and content provided on public bodies’ websites and mobile applications more accessible to users through the use of common European standards. The introduction of the Directive and the necessary legislative changes contribute to a more accessible society, and it is therefore also a contribution to the follow-up to our obligations under the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities — a Convention to which a unanimous increase has been attached. When new rules are introduced, it is necessary for authorities to follow up and legislative changes are now making new reporting and enforcement requirements, including: by introducing a declaration of availability. The case we are dealing with today has a long history. The Directive was first consulted in 2017 – with an assessment of whether the Directive should also cover, inter alia: private sector. Then proposals for implementation of the Directive were consulted in 2019. In the bill, the government presents legislative changes that are mainly only about public enterprises’ websites. The government indicates that private sector legislation will be addressed in the context of the EU Access Directive on goods and services. The Committee agrees with these assessments. However, more organisations have called for action in more areas than the introduction of the minimum provisions of this EU Directive. For the Workers' Party, it is important to establish good universal design rules in the private sector, too, in order to ensure a more equal society, where people with disabilities also have access to goods and services they need, as pointed out by several consultation bodies. The same applies to the interpretation of films used as a learning material, which is currently viewed on an individual basis. The work of creating a universally designed society, which has room for everyone and gives equal access to education, work and democratic processes, is far from complete with the implementation of this Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2197	These legislative changes are an important step in the inclusion of people with disabilities in the digital society. The legislative changes implement the requirements of the EU Web Accessibility Directive. The EEA process has taken a long time, and I am pleased that the WAD Directive has now been adopted as part of the EEA Agreement. I request the consent of the Stortingen to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee. Both Norway and the EU have acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities — CRPD. WAD is the follow-up of the Convention by the EU. The proposal implies that only public undertakings are subject to new requirements. We need to consider whether the requirements can also be applied to the private sector. As the Labour and Social Committee notes, interconnection is necessary as the WAD and another EU Directive, the Accessibility Directive, partially regulate the same situation. WAD requires 1) public enterprises to ensure that online video recordings are viewed and that 2) new intranets and extranets, i.e. certain ICT solutions at the workplace, are made available. Furthermore, the Directive requires 3) public undertakings to draw up a declaration of compliance. This shall be accompanied by a feedback function, which means that the user can ask for a justification for why content is exempted from the requirements. There shall also be a link to a complaint procedure. WAD allows for exemptions from the requirements if they result in a ‘disproportionate burden’. WAD implies that the assessment is to be carried out by public undertakings themselves. In the case of schools and kindergartens, the proposal goes beyond WAD: the proposal implies that most of the requirements of WAD also apply to the education sector. Fortunately, we already have a good regulatory framework on the universal design of ICT solutions, but our international obligations under the EEA Agreement require these amendments to be adopted now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2210	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2215	In the setting, the government has agreed to introduce the Directive as a minimum directive and to open up some exceptional provisions. This leads, inter alia, to: that in schools and kindergartens there will still be a requirement for individual organisation for sight-to-see for the blind, while the Blind Alliance and other organisations want this as a more general rule. Can the Council of State say anything about why it chooses not to introduce a stricter requirement in the Discrimination Act with regard to the perception of the blind than the individual right that is there today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2220	It is very good that the representative emphasises that the individual right will still apply. So that's the question of doing this in general. We do not propose that it be fully implemented for schools and kindergartens. It's about the socio-economic studies we have on video viewing, which show that the requirement is expensive to comply with. We are concerned that the requirements that are being introduced are being implemented in a way that also makes it possible to ensure compliance. Vista Analysis has carried out several studies on KMD missions of the socio-economic impact of the directive. I would like to stress that we are proposing to implement the other requirements of the WAD for schools and kindergartens, and as such, the directive's requirement implies that it is implemented in addition to the minimum requirement on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2227	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2246	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2253	In this case, the premium shall deal with legislative proposals by the government on the extension of the temporary derogation from the curtailment rules for old-age pensions in the statutory public occupational pension schemes. The amending laws of 20 March 2020 are those of the State Pension Fund Act, the Pharmacy Pension Act, etc. and in the Nursing Scheme Act. For labour income that gives entitlement to membership of the respective occupational retirement provision schemes, the three statutory schemes usually shorten the old-age pension and the contractual pension. The same rules also apply to municipal occupational retirement provision. In a few hectic days in March 2020, the Stortinget addressed a number of economic measures to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 pandemic. The opposition in the UK initiated negotiations with the government parties on a strong improvement in the government's proposal for action, and a historic agreement was reached between all parties. One of the measures was to grant a temporary derogation from the reduction rules for old-age pensions — AFP — in order to ensure access to the necessary health professionals, either by voluntary recruitment or, if necessary, by order. Older pensioners were assessed as relevant if the need for increased access to healthcare professionals should arise. The current derogation was initially introduced until 1 November 2020 but was adopted unanimously in October 2020 until 1 July 2021. In addition, the opposition then ensured that pharmacists, wholesalers and manufacturers of medicinal products providing the ordered service were also covered by the temporary derogation. Other groups, e.g. However, hospital apothecary employees were not included. In the case we are dealing with today, the government is proposing a new extension of the derogation to 1 January 2022, with the same reason as before: ensuring access to the necessary health professionals, among others. during holiday settlement and because the availability of foreign health professionals is uncertain. The Committee supports the Government's proposal for a new extension and assumes that the exemption will continue to cover the municipal sector. The position of the Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2270	When the most interventional measures in Norwegian society since the war were introduced to save life and health last year, the government came to Stortinget in a short time with a powerful package of measures to deal with their impact on workers and businesses. From providing childcare for critical health professionals to meet at work, ensuring the income of workers on leave, and supporting schemes for business to save jobs from being lost, all at the same time. Therefore, it was also important and correct that the Stortinget – also in a short time – did our job of listening to stakeholders and completing the measures to ensure that those who were most affected by Norway’s closure would have security and predictability. The result was a consensus to which all the parties in Stortinget joined, among others. time-limited exemptions for curtailment rules for old-age pensions and AFPs. Now, an equal aggregate increase in the extension of the time-limited derogation for curtailment, and that's right-wing pleased. But that being said, we have also always intended that the government should adapt the intervention and compensation arrangements for these to the actual situation. That means that we've always wanted clear time limits in order to be able to open up if the situation so warrants, but at the same time we've always been very clear that we're going to extend when necessary. It has been good to see how Norway has worked together during this period, that we have been able to mobilise qualified and necessary personnel if necessary. In this case, we see how curtailment rules become a barrier to sign up for service. It must always pay to work, and that reflection should be taken into account in other debates on other benefits and schemes as well. When we learn from this pandemic, I believe that this provides a basis for looking at lasting changes in several areas – but we are not taking that debate today. Government parties have always wanted to facilitate the mobilisation of qualified and necessary personnel without any curtailment or retirement of pensions. At the time this was discussed earlier, we were in another infectious situation where many measures had been rolled back, and we saw it as unnatural to extend temporary measures to several groups. We also pointed out that, for example: those who receive pensions from the pharmacies pension scheme could take up positions on pensioners’ terms where they can work without reducing the age pension. That's what we meant when we solved the challenges. But then the situation has changed again, and today the measures are adapted again to the situation. That is precisely why the government is proposing to extend the existing arrangements, and that of course joins the government parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2283	The current legislative proposal facilitates, where necessary, the mobilisation of qualified and necessary personnel to work in the health sector to combat the coronary apathy. The proposal implies that labour income for such work does not shorten public service pension until 1 January 2022. I am pleased that the committee supports the proposal. The proposal facilitates the provision of services to pensioners in a pandemic situation where the overall objective is to establish the necessary health care and the proposal helps to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2290	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2307	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a sequence change of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time, will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2314	The size currently consents to the ratification of ILO Convention No. 189 on decent work for workers in private homes. The Convention shall ensure an international standard that confers fundamental rights on workers in private homes in an employment relationship and regulates most aspects of a work relationship involving workers in private homes. Implementation of the Convention requires legislative changes, and in order to comply with the Convention, the scope of the regulatory home of the Working Environment Act § 1-5, second paragraph, must be extended to all work, not just housework, supervision or care. In this respect, the majority of the Committee refers to the treatment of Prop by Storting. 154 L for 2020-2021. The majority point to the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will provide for an amended regulation on work in the homes or households of private employers to ensure compliance with the Convention, and that the amendments will include strengthened rights relating to discrimination, leave, working time and protection against violence and threats, as well as access to bring cases on, among others. permit rights for the dispute resolution name. The majority agree that the Labour Inspectorate is given the authority to supervise the regulation, and we will be attending to it shortly. In the rest of the post, I want to talk on behalf of the Workers' Party, and I refer to the comments we have with SV and the Center Party about. We believe that in the design of the regulation it will be important to include all domestic employment and forms of connection that lead to the exploitation of persons working in the home, and to ensure that sufficient supervisory powers and fines are provided for breaches of regulations. However, the most eye-catching thing in this case is that the Progress Party once again promotes proposals for minimum wages. It's a system that's very unhealthy, and far from what the Workers' Party stands for. We have a long tradition that the social partners are responsible for the formation of wages in Norway, not the politicians. Wages and salaries are not to be determined in the Stortinget, but through negotiations between the employer and the employee side. Political wages will be a dangerous way to go. A weakening of the collective agreement system with the frontal model would put Norwegian industry and thousands of jobs at risk and lead to increased disparities. In addition, minimum wages will lead to a lower wage level and rather a ceiling than a floor for the low-wages. I am pleased that the trade union movement and an overwhelming majority in Norwegian policy, together with the Nordic countries, are fighting hard against the idea of introducing a minimum wage directive in the EU. Should it be promoted and adopted, it will fundamentally break with the Norwegian model of wage formations. In that case, it will be absolutely essential that we get exceptions that allow us to keep our model. It is therefore essential that governments follow the process in the EU closely and keep Storting informed. I want to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2329	For the Progress Party, it is important to contribute to a policy that ensures that workers have a good protection of employment and that we generally have decent pay and working conditions. However, when we are making alternative proposals for this position today, we believe that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about several questions about this directive. What is work of "regular character"? What kind of real possibility does the Labour Inspectorate have to oversee in private homes, on the one hand, with work done when a self-employed person is not necessarily at home in the dwelling where the work takes place? And what kind of work area can this really apply to? We fear that parts of this make strict demands and can red tape that is now less sporadic work, and we didn't think the government would explain in any way what the limitations would be here. On this basis, I will take up the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the configuration. Finally, it is surprising that the Labour Party is able to try to produce the minimum wage – the minimum wage – as a ceiling on pay. It's almost only in the Workers' Party that such a logic can lead any way. Norwegian employers pay people over the wages fixed either in a collective agreement or in other agreements directly, in an entire case, even if neither politicians nor the parties have agreed to it, but Norwegian employers pay for the required skills. What regulates this issue, and which is the background for our proposal today, is the minimum standard. One must almost be a Labour Party politician in order to make a question of minimum pay an attempt to impose a wage cap on Norwegian labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2338	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2343	The ILO Convention, as we have heard, will ensure an international standard that provides workers in private homes with basic labour rights. A broad ratification of the Convention between the Member States of the ILO could contribute to a regulated working life, with a world-wide organisation of relations between this group. It will also strengthen the position of women in working life and be positive in the fight against trafficking in human beings and the exploitation of children. In Norway, the number of people added to private homes is low, but matters are important for those who are in debt. If the work is carried out under the direction of an enterprise, the conditions of addition are directly covered by the environmental work law. The ratification will therefore have an impact on the cases where work is done privately. Implementation will require a change in the law of the work area, which is extended to all work done in the home, not just housework, supervision and care. The change will result in the strengthening of rights relating to discrimination, leave, working time, protection against violence and threats and the right to bring proceedings for the settlement of disputes. For private employers, the change may give rise to an increase in the cost of overtime pay. The Christian People's Party wants to welcome the changes and sees it as positive that workers in private homes are given a stronger protection. The group covered is expected to be indebted to many women, who may have difficulties in reaching demands that are normal or otherwise in working life. Tasks such as cleaning and childcare are often linked to poor pay conditions, and employees are often foreign and may lack knowledge of the regulation of employment in Norway. The Christian People's Party therefore sees it as an advantage that ratification ensures an international standard, which contributes to a more decent working relationship for all private workers. We in the Christian People's Party are very pleased that this proposal will be approved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2358	A lot of this has now been described, among other things. by the President-in-Office, in a good way, so I'm not going through all the parts of this. But ratification of the Convention requires a legislative and regulatory change, and that's why we have the matter to deal with in the Storting today. A minor change must be made to the Working Environment Act in order to provide the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with an adequate basis for determining the necessary regulatory homes, and they have already been consulted. In Norway, it is likely that the consequences of the regulation of work at home by private employers will not be so great, as the number of employees is assumed to be low. Work on children and the elderly and sick and similar care tasks is carried out in Norway to a large extent outside private homes. Where work is done in private homes, there is often an employer's business. It is important to say that ratifying the ILO Convention is not just about our own rules in Norway in this area – they are essentially at the same level – but it is also an important contribution to ensuring workers' rights internationally, by supporting and strengthening the work of the ILO. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2374	I noticed that the Council of State did not comment on the proposal of the Progress Party on the minimum wage. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something about what he thinks about minimum wages and what the government is doing to prevent the minimum wage directive from being introduced in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2379	Minimum pay is a very bad idea. It doesn't automatically mean that it's a bad idea everywhere, in every country in the world. But in Norway, we have organized our working life so that we have a high level of organisation. That means that the parties negotiate. Then we also have the mechanism that where we think there is a need for a statutory minimum wage because we see that there has been extensive use of wage dumping e.g., we have published tariffs. This means that the proposal for a minimum wage in a country such as Norway in the worst case will help undermine or damage our working life model. That's why the government, both now and before, has engaged very strongly, among other things. against proposals made by the European Commission to introduce minimum wages in the EU, insofar as this would be relevant to the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2384	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2404	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2411	The EU Employment and Social Innovation Programme for 2021 to 2027 is part of the proposal for a Regulation on the European Social Fund plus, ESF+. This proposal concerns the consent of Norway to participate in that part of the Regulations relating to the EU Programme for Employment and Social Innovation, i.e. ESF+, and that programme shall last from 2021 until the end of 2027. ESF+ brings together several previous funds and programmes and is a key instrument for investing in citizens and contributing to the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The ESF+ funds and programmes include the Social Fund, the Youth Initiative of the European Union, the European Social Fund and the continuation of the EU Employment and Social Innovation Programme The ESF+ aims to help Member States achieve high employment, fair social protection and a competent and adaptable workforce ready for the future, in line with the principles of the European Pillar of Social Rights. The ESF+ shall also support policy developments in the Member States in order to ensure equal opportunities, access to the labour market, fair working conditions and social protection and inclusion. The programme includes areas of cooperation such as an orderly working life, including the labour market, modernisation of labour market institutions and services, increased professional participation of women, labour market-adapted skills, including new skills for adaptation to jobs in a green and digital economy, lifelong learning, integration into the labour market, combating youth unemployment, further development of welfare services and systems and poverty reduction, including the fight against child poverty. Participation in the programme for Norway could be a useful tool to ensure good and ongoing contact on policy developments in the EU and to provide us with access to the exchange of experience and knowledge that we can make use of in the development of national policies. For example, the provision of information on social security matters may allow comparisons of national social security systems within the EEA territory, analysis and exchange of information and experience in the field of social security. Furthermore, the Programme does not impose any obligations other than to participate in and contribute to the financing of the Programme and to the sharing of information in those areas. For this reason, the majority of the Committee also recommends that the Storting should give its support to participation in the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2426	The party of progress joins the intention in much of what we can assume so far that the regulation will last. Nevertheless, it is especially important to ask for consent from Stortinget to this before we know the final design of the regulation. So today, we will discuss the proposals from the setting – as I do with this – to wait for the final approval of this until we have seen what the final regulation will look like. European cooperation is good and appropriate in many areas, but that the Storting joins in the implementation of a regulation without knowing either the ultimate content or the economic consequences, we think it is premature, and we will therefore support the proposals we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2433	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2438	For the second time today, we have put on the Stortinget case map a case that concerns that the Stortinget should join an EU programme before you know the full consequences of what this connection will entail. In this case, no decision has been taken in the EEA Committee. It does not exist, and the EEA Committee is the joint body between the EFTA countries in the EEA and the EU which has to clarify the framework for Norway’s participation in various decisions. However, unlike the previous case, where this was not done, this case goes further. There is also no final decision in the EU on what this programme should involve. The fact that the Storting has been in the EEA Committee both before the case and before final decisions have been taken in the EU on what this matter will entail is intended to take decisions in the national assembly which binds Norway both economically and politically to the programme, believes that the Centre Party is unwise, and we will go against the proposal here. We are in the middle of a pandemic, and in many contexts there has been a need for rapid decision-making in the United Kingdom because there are significant consequences for both workers and businesses in Norway. But what is the urgent need for Norway to take a decision in Stortinget before it knows the final decision on the programme in the EU and before it has been in the EEA Committee? There is good reason to ask why the government parties and – in this context – the Workers' Party choose to do so. On the contrary, there are good reasons to ask questions about what Norway has to do with joining such types of programmes and structures, as we know for sure so far involve economic consequences for Norway, an estimated 200 million. kr during the programming period. There are many fine wordings here on what ambitions the EU has attached to this programme, but it is about the seventh and last time that Norway is with our model of working life, our organisation of working life. In the previous case, one spoke about how we organise Norwegian employment, that we do not have a minimum wage model, that we have a high level of organisation, and that we do not agree with the EU's plans for a minimum wage. However, the fact that we ourselves organise our own working life in Norway and do not uncritically organize different programmes and decisions that the European Union has makes sense. I would like to say that I am against the proposals promoted by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2449	I would like to thank the Stortinget and the Committee for considering this matter in the current big session. It is important, because it means – given the reading in the EEA Committee as well – that we get involved from the start of the EU's employment and social innovation programme. Norway is part of the common European labour market, and participating in the EU's employment and social innovation programme will be a central and useful input for Norway to ensure good and continuous contact with EU and EU Member States in the field of labour and social policy development. The European Social Fund plus shall support, complement and add value to the policies of the Member States in order to achieve a range of objectives of labour and social policy. We want to participate in the demarcated section on employment and social innovation, EaSI. For this part, a number of operational objectives have been set, such as developing comparative analytical knowledge and facilitating an efficient and inclusive sharing of information, mutual learning, support for networks at European level and dialogue with, inter alia, Member States. interested parties. Being part of international networks where we can share information about our labour market situation and our actions has been useful through the coronary crisis, and it will be useful in the future to deal with structural conditions in the labour market. Central challenges in the labour market are not peculiar, but to a large extent the same as other European countries also face. Participation in the EU Programme on Employment and Social Innovation will contribute to more meeting places and cooperation venues where EU policies are discussed and developed, where current EEA issues come up for discussion. Such a degree of commitment is important in order to be able to pursue an effective European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2462	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2467	In the vote, some parties to the Stortinget have a comment and promote a proposal relating to the establishment of the European Labour Market Agency and are concerned about the impact of this case on the ELA. Can the Council of States say anything about how this matter will affect our relationship with the European Labour Market Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2472	I can do that. There are no references to the ELA in the Regulation on the European Social Fund plus. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs aims at sending a proposal for legislative and regulatory changes at the hearing with a view to implementing the ELA Regulation in Norwegian law during 2021. It is then intended to promote a proposal for both the necessary legislative changes and the consent to include the Regulation on the ELA in the EEA Agreement during the spring of 2022. There has been some organisation and movement of programme areas, but briefly summarised: apart from the general considerations of ensuring coordination and complementarity between the various instruments of the EU, nothing in the Regulation will now be relevant to the scope of ELA or vice versa.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2479	Thanks for the presentation and the status of the ELA. I then perceive the Council's answer this way, and I would like to have it confirmed, that this matter has nothing to do with our relationship with the ELA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2485	The representative has understood the answer quite correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2490	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2510	No one has asked for the floor. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2525	The cancellation then goes to voting and starts with the matter no. 10 to 18 from Thursday 27 May, Agenda No Eighty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2537	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to stimulate more entrepreneurial activities among young people under 18 years of age.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2563	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that more secondary education students are given the opportunity to participate in programmes through Youth Entrepreneurship’.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2587	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2606	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider a rapid start-up of a Travel Life 21 process that can strengthen knowledge of the tourism industry, the need for action and how to ensure better sustainability and more permanent jobs.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to strengthen Norwegian travel life after the corona pandemic and to ensure Norwegian ownership of travel businesses in Norway.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2645	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Sivert Bjørnstad on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an adjusted compensation scheme for the taxi industry, where companies owning their own vehicles are treated in the same way as companies leased/rented by vehicles.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2664	The Group of the European People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2683	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an adjusted compensation scheme for the Norwegian tourism industry, where companies owning their own vehicles are treated in the same way as leases/rents.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an adjusted compensation scheme for the rental car industry, where companies owning their own vehicles are treated in a non-discriminatory manner with companies such as leases/rents.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2714	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-10, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with the food industry, is asked to set out a concrete objective of increasing value creation and employment in the food industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a plan to improve the recruitment of Norwegian labour force to the food industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to strengthen the training of the labour force of the food industry at all levels of the education cycle.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with proposals for enhanced customs protection in order to protect Norwegian food production and the food industry.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work to improve the labelling regimes in order to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian food.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of taxes, levies and charges applicable to the food industry with a view to increasing competitiveness.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose arrangements, including freight subsidies, to facilitate a geographically dispersed food industry.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to improve the efficiency and automation of the food industry.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for simplification of food industry legislation.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a national strategy for the public procurement of food products to ensure that Norwegian products are selected.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2796	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7–26, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 10–15, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work systematically for a long-term objective of halving Norwegian meat consumption.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of VAT on vegetable meat substitutes.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose measures and measures in agriculture, the food industry, the restaurant industry and the grocery stores to promote vegan and vegetarian food based on Norwegian raw materials.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to increase the VAT on meat from 15 % to 20 %, with the exception of organic meat and meat production where the feed fraction does not exceed 10 % of the feed measured in energy.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to ban price campaigns on meat involving the sale of meat with losses. Food which is close to date is exempted from the prohibition.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to impose a requirement that public canteens serve only vegetarian food at least one day a week and always have a fully-fledged vegetarian alternative.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking that kindergartens with food should always have a fully-fledged vegetarian alternative.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2859	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2864	And then we're going to fix it. 85 votes against and 1 in favour of the proposals of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2869	The Socialist Left has already supported the proposals. 11 and 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2874	It was reported after the votering scheme was made, but it will be added as a note. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7, 9 and 16–26, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a nutrition boost message with up-to-date dietary councils, goals and measures for a healthier diet. Dietary councils should include sustainability and self-sufficiency considerations in addition to public health assessments.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to eliminate VAT on fruit and vegetables.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce requirements for non-nutritional education in the field of food and health at school, in order to avoid excessive influence of business interests on children’s knowledge of food.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government requests that male animals of ruminant origin be subject to the same grazing and exercise requirements as female animals by requiring in the male legislation that animals not to be used for breeding are, as a general rule, castrated.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests the gradual winding-up of the milk quota exchange and the reintroduction of State allocation of milk quotas, which shall be based on local resource base.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for a reduction of the quota ceiling for cows’ milk to 450 000 litres, so that no new production is exceeded.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking the quota ceiling for goat’s milk to be reduced to 200000 litres, so that no new production is exceeded.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan to strengthen active seating operations.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reduce the area limit for the concession obligation for the acquisition of built-up property and the compulsory housing obligation to 10 dekar kærk land.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of customs duties on soya and other protein raw materials for Norwegian agriculture and aquaculture, and to establish a plan for stepping up customs duties by 2030.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a plant processing and innovative research centre on protein-rich food plants for Nordic conditions, as part of a targeted plan to increase the production and consumption of plant proteins in Norway, both directly to people and as an input into the livestock population.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government is asking how surplus products such as culling goats, laying hens, sheep and fillets can be marketed in balance with the main productions to which they belong, with the aim of reducing losses.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan on how to cut primary food waste at least in line with the UN sustainability target of halving food waste by 2030.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2957	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to work systematically to reduce Norwegian meat consumption.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking to replace today’s information office with an overall information office promoting sustainable and healthy food and diet, in line with objectives of maritime, nature and climate. The industry and professionals shall be represented.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2982	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to strengthen customs protection of meat and to negotiate the lowest possible import quotas for meat in trade agreements.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e2999	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to work to increase the degree of self-sufficiency, as corrected for imports of feed, in the case of Norwegian agricultural food to 50 pst. by the end of 2026.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to reintroduce the free school fruit scheme in primary school. The scheme should favour Norwegian produced and locally produced fruit and vegetables.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘During the spring, the government is asked to submit proposals for food law.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3035	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3054	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Torgeira Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with a bill prohibiting the destruction of ants.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3083	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the [[repealing the prohibition of new cultivation of boar]] In Law 12 May 1995 No. 23 on soil is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: In order to avoid damage to natural and cultural landscapes or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Ministry may provide evidence of innovation. An application for new cultivation of ants may only be made through a plan approved by the individual municipality. A general ban on the breeding of ants cannot be established in the precautionary areas. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment."
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3114	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law amending the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the [[repealing the prohibition of new cultivation of boar]] In Law 12 May 1995 No. 23 on soil is amended as follows: the second paragraph of Section 11 is replaced by the following: In order to avoid damage to natural and cultural landscapes or to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the Ministry may provide evidence of innovation. An application for afforestation or reduction of ants may only be made where the climate, natural and cultural landscape is maintained through a holistic plan approved by the individual municipality. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment." The Progress Party and the Central Party have notified subsidized the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3147	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3162	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3186	A total of 11 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1, 3 and 4, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 5, 10 and 11, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2 and 6-9 from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen Norway’s climate targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory by 80 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990 levels, and submit an obligatory plan in force from 1 January 2022 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions accordingly.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3213	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a gradual, predictable and scheduled phase-out of the petroleum activity by 2035.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3228	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «As a result of the IEA's new report, the Government asks the Government to stop the 25th concession round and the TFO 2021.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate effect of the winding-up of the oil companies’ easy-to-refuse arrangements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3250	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘In the light of the conclusions of the IEA report ‘Net Zero by 2050’, the Government is asking the Government to stop all search activities on the socket, including cancelling the 25th concession round.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In line with the recommendations of the IEA report ‘Net Zero by 2050’, the Government asks the Government to stop all allocations of new search licences on Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government requests the termination of the readmission scheme as from 1 January 2022.’ The Socialist Left and Red have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3280	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen Norway’s climate target for a 70 pst emission cut. compared to 1990 emissions and return to Stortinget with a plan to achieve this objective, as soon as possible.’ Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3299	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 3 and 4, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal to strengthen the Climate Act by including requirements for national climate budgets and related action plans, and doing so as part of the State budget from 2022. The proposal shall also extend the Climate Act in such a way that municipalities and county municipalities are governed by climate plans and budgets at least in line with the Paris Agreement.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish an oil commission where authorities, employee organisations, research and knowledge environments and businesses cooperate on a plan to maintain employment and create new jobs at the same time as the oil business is phased out.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work through the Arctic Council for an International Oil Moratorium in the Arctic.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3349	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-13, from Björn Moxnes on behalf of Red proposal No 14, from Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4, 7, 12, and 13, from Red. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan for avoiding social and geographical injustice of increased CO 2 tax and not for increasing revenue to the country, but rather for measures that ensure repayment or compensation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure that the revenue from the increased CO 2 tax is re-disbursed to all medium, low or no income inhabitants, with a supplement per child and geographical differentiation. The refund shall be monthly and duty-free, such as: For example, child-restraint and the geographical differentiation may include: starting from the existing zoning map for differentiated employer charges.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a two-way electricity price, either in the form of two-way network rental or electricity charge, or otherwise distinguishing between normal consumption and unnecessary luxury consumption.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to allow a share of the SPU to be used as a national green industrial fund to make strategic investments in domestic industrial production, with a view to ensuring technological development, increased exports of goods, more industrial jobs, increased value creation and further processing in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to enable a share of the SPU to be used as a green infrastructure fund investing in the development of climate-friendly infrastructure such as rail, public transport, charging networks, ports and broadband throughout Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3402	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11, from Red. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for sectoral action plans to be drawn up to investigate what measures need to be taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70 pst. by 2030, and how the emission cuts can be carried out in an economically and geographically equitable manner.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks that the revenue from increased CO 2 tax should not be used to reduce taxes on wealth, company profits and high income.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking the government to strengthen the ability of municipalities to establish and determine the size of their own zones, with the exception of public transport, pedestrians, disabled persons, cyclists and transport of goods, thus reducing the environmental impact, regardless of whether the roads are municipal, county or state. The zones shall be established in close dialogue with business and residents, as well as the State Road Administration and County Municipalities in cases where State and County Road Networks are affected.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a ban on the carriage of passengers by private fossil aircraft. The prohibition shall cover both charter and self-contained aeroplanes, but shall, until further notice, exempt all uses for the purpose of life, health and safety and for the use of small aeroplanes in hobby/sport context.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a Commission to look at climate emissions associated with unnecessary luxury consumption such as private jet aircraft, first class travel, large cabin palaces and over-consumption of electricity, and to make targeted proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the gradual transfer of cod, seine and hake quotas from the trawl to the coastal fleet in order to ensure reduced climate emissions from fisheries, to provide more jobs in the Norwegian fishing industry and to facilitate increased further processing of raw materials at home.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate the calculation of the climate impact of proposals made by the party groups on the Storting, in the same way that the Ministry of Finance today answers budgetary questions and provides financial calculations to alternative budgets, and to provide comprehensive estimates of the distribution effect of the parties’ climate policies.’;» The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3455	There is a vote on proposal No. 9 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in imports of foreign meat and dairy products by reducing the use of reduced customs duties, renegotiating international trade agreements and by other means strengthening customs protection.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3472	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that the power of distribution and the power of a two-price electricity system be assessed by the government, or alternatively increased electricity charge combined with the repayment of a fixed sum per household.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3490	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3498	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3518	In the course of the debate, Mr Myhrvold put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to ensure government sub-financing of the Ministry of Climate and Environment’s budget of the work of the non-profit organisation Maridalens Vänner in Oslo to implement the State-adopted Maridalen Landscaping Plan.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3542	The central party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3554	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. Case No. 1–6 was discussed at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3568	In the course of the debate, Mr Moxnes has put forward a proposal on behalf of Mr Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to use its ownership of the Kongsberg Group to take initiatives to purchase Bergen Engines or otherwise secure jobs and national security through national ownership of Bergen Engines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3593	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3622	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3698	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3709	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3774	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3784	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3857	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3867	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3939	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3951	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3965	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e3977	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to move Oslo prisons from Greenland and that the use of the area where the prison is today benefits the citizens of the city, as well as that new prisons on the Bredtvet are being scrapped as an alternative.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4006	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that state buildings quickly carry out a new investigation into the location of new prisons in order to ensure good housing conditions for prisoners. The development of new prisons shall not be at the expense of forests and wildlife or destroy important natural areas of the local population.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4023	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to speed up work on finding adequate land alternatives other than the Oslo Bredtvet within the necessary conditions of proximity.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to rest up existing Oslo prison and Bredtveit Women’s Prison pending a new prison.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4047	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to scrape the preliminary plans for a new Oslo prison in Bredtvet.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess alternative places for new prisons in the Groruddalen that maintain green areas while ensuring state jobs in the area.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4079	The Central Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4113	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4132	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for legislative changes to ensure that the use of fire bombs and similar very serious acts addressed to police and courts is subject to penalties as severe as terrorist activities.’ Alternatively, between the proposal and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the vote. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4165	During the debate, Mr Urbø presented a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Size Transmits Prop. 176 S back to the government.» [[2020-2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4262	The centre party has notified subsidiary aid to the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4481	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4491	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4555	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4565	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4577	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit a case in which an assessment of current labour protection legislation properly takes care of workers carrying out work in private homes and to propose measures that may lower the threshold for recording such employment.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national minimum wage, which will ensure a decent salary level for each employee.’ Alternatively, there is a vote between the proposals and the Committee's position. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4615	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to explain the status of the establishment of the European Labour Agency [[ELA]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a final adopted regulation on ESF+/EEA (European Employment and Social Innovation Programme) [[Employment and Social Innovation – EaSI]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4646	The party of progress, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-28.ana.ud237e4686	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
