ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e98	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Socialist Left Party Group requests that the convening of the meeting representative of Rogaland, Eirik Faret Sakarisassen, be extended until Monday 19 April under the mandate of the representative Solfrid Lerbrück from 23 February to 19 April. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Elise Bjørnebeck-Waagen from 13 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Siv Henriette Jacobsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e130	Siv Henriette Jacobsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e141	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e146	I am promoting a proposal for a fair environmental policy with emissions cuts as monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e151	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e171	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e187	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e203	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e210	The case is about a higher penalty for foreigners who have been expelled on the basis of penalties imposed. Today, the six-month penalty framework or fines — or both — and the government’s proposal is to increase the penalties to up to two years. It is gratifying that there is an overall committee behind the recommendation, i.e. that there is no disagreement – at least in the parties in the committee – that it is important to tighten the law on foreigners in this area. This is an important matter. It's important to respect our law that you actually risk something by breaking the law. It is a major problem that we have — for a long time — had immigrants who are illegal in Norway, committed crime in Norway and were penalised because of it, but continue to be in Norway because there is very little risk of doing so. Now it tightens in – and it's a pretty substantial tightening. It will have a great effect, at least it is to hope, so that you do not continue to choose to be illegal in Norway because the risk is so low. Thus, there is now reason to believe that we can continue the work for which the Progress Party was a driver in government, precisely to give priority to illegal immigrants who have committed crime, that they are the first to be sent out. If I don't remember wrong, we made sure to send out more than six illegal criminals immigrants every single day while we were in government. It's a work that we have reason to be proud of. It takes away a great burden from society and contributes to more respect for the law we have, so this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e219	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e236	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to 6 lines of response will be given after members of the government, and those who have to sign up in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e243	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. The matter is about a proposal by several representatives in the Central Party on new regional initiatives to combat exclusion among children and young people. The Committee's recommendation is promoted by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which have a majority in the Committee, but not necessarily in this Chamber. Seven proposals for decisions have been made in this case. There have been discussions, and there are discussions, on how to set up this initiative, and on whether to hit the target. I expect that the various parties will explain their views on the matter. I want to talk about what the Progress Party believes in the matter. What I think is a lack of recognition from the other parties is that the major problems, which are really all the parties behind recognising that we have, come from a misguided immigration policy – poor integration. Until you realize that this is the reason, I have little faith that you can do something about the issues. Most parties support a definition of living conditions challenges, or areas affected by them: poor living conditions, longevity, high unemployment, child poverty, large immigrant populations, high crime and other challenges. There are quite many and serious challenges, which have been built up over a number of years, because immigration policies have been unsustainable. Then there is reason to question that some of the same parties in other debates refuse to accept that the same challenges are those that you are involved in creating, when you open up more immigration. If you're betting on doing these things better, you're all in favour. But now one has been operating in several different cities for a number of years and under at least two governments. It is difficult to find evaluations that show that this works well. It is difficult to show that we are achieving the goal, that we are actually able to improve growth conditions, that we are able to eliminate poverty and exclusion, reduce crime and drop-offs from high school. Then we think that instead of doing more of what you can't say works or know doesn't work, you first have to evaluate what you've done to figure out if you're hitting the goal. That is why the Progress Party is proposing an evaluation before spending more money on something that is not known about working.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e258	Then the representative Jon Engen-Helgheim mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e263	‘It would be to go too far to say that living in a poor area makes you poor. But living in an area with many neighbours with poor living conditions, low income and education reduces one's lifestyle. There has been a lot of research on family background and the importance of the school in Norway — much less on the impact of neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. All this said Ingar Brattbakk in the Evening Post in 2017. A strong urban economy is crucial for a neighbourhood. The Red-Green City Council has strengthened the economy in the metropolitan areas of Oslo by 1.2 billion. kr. In this way, the metropolitan areas of Oslo are now more able to offer services that are involved and ensure good growth conditions for children and young people, even outside the statutory tasks. In its alternative state budget, the Labour Party has also increased the municipal framework by 3.5 billion. kr. That would mean a big difference between the metropolitan areas of Oslo and other cities with exposed areas. In particular, there are increased appropriations such as this which counteract the exclusion of children and young people. The methods developed in the Groruddalssatsingen show that policy area interventions work. I am proud and happy to represent the party that has gone to the front – first from the government offices and then from the City Hall in Oslo. There must be no doubt that the sitting government has contributed less money to this work than the Stoltenberg government. But where is the road going? In its proposal, the Central Party has made a number of good proposals that we naturally support, but whether they should be future regional initiatives, or whether there should be ordinary measures to prevent exclusion, we should be discussing today. Many of the proposals the Centre Party is promoting today are already being tested by the City Council in Oslo: work experience through the summer job project, an eleventh school year for those who are struggling, monitoring vulnerable youth, coding for work as a measure of code training for youth and technologyThe garden of Bjørnholt School, where the electrology is to be further developed with the aim of getting closer cooperation between vocational education and training, industry and the community. Students in Oslo School do better than before. The proportion that completes secondary school is increasing and has never been greater. The average primary school score has increased, and the pupils' position has increased in all subjects. Departure characteristics have increased in all upper secondary and upper secondary common subjects and in almost all examinations in these common subjects. Oslo best performs all national tests at all stages and has the highest and lowest students at the lowest level. And not least: several students apply for a professional in Oslo. However, we are not in target until everyone is in it – including children and young people in vulnerable areas throughout the country. The inequality gap is increasing on our guard. Now we have to create policies to close this gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e280	Proposals have put the spotlight on an important theme that deserves both attention and effort. The objective of combating outsiders is to cross the boundaries of the lot, even though the instruments we choose may sometimes be different. Integration and inclusion work has been a high priority during this government, and I am pleased about that. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that in some of our largest cities, we find living conditions challenges that are particularly complex and complex, challenges that require an extra, coordinated effort from many different agencies, and that need to be added to and at the top of the regular service provision. In the area initiatives, countries and municipalities cooperate across sectoral borders and levels, together with industry and volunteers, to develop the areas and services, and we find such investments in several areas – in Oslo, Drammen, Stavanger and Bergen municipality. Since 2014, the government has concluded new agreements with several municipalities on such investments to improve living conditions. Area bets shall complement the regular service offer for a limited period of time. The aim is that they contribute to and result in lasting improvements in services and near-environment quality where the needs are greatest. We have seen good examples of projects and actions that work well in the years in which the schemes have been, some of them so well that they have become part of a larger range of offers. In Oslo, the 11th year of school began as an attempt at an area effort. Challenges of absence, absence and low primary school characteristics were the starting point for a cross-sectoral cooperation model based on tailor-made training and the use of urban district coordinators as door-to-door service providers. This gave good results for many young people, who have a new everyday life and a hope for a better future. Today, the eleventh year of school is an offer throughout Oslo. A similar example is cooperation with Oslo Adult Education Helsfyr, Nav, Ikea and XXL to get immigrants to work faster. Quick tracks include both language training and work training, and experience has contributed to, inter alia: a national cooperation between Nav and Ikea. Also in Drammen they have experienced that action from the area operation has become part of the ordinary operation under the direction of Nav Drammen. This is good, and it shows that the measures have both had an impact and can also have a transfer value in other contexts. I'm glad the government is continuing the area operation. At the same time, I would like to stress that these efforts must be successful, that the profile, objectives and instruments must be tailored, and that the local initiative and the commitment must be present. Otherwise, in the Right we have explained our views on the individual proposals in the vote, so I refer to that in relation to the individual proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e295	One of the greatest challenges facing our society today is exclusion. Too many young people, especially boys, fall out of high school without having a job to go to. They say these guys don't fit into school. I'd rather say that we've created a school run that doesn't fit these kids. Often these young people are practical but not able to use their skills, and they do not have the opportunity to feel mastery, because today’s school is largely adapted to theorists. It is a challenge across the country, but there is an extra big problem in areas with a large proportion of pupils with a migrant background. The basis for being able to complete secondary education is in primary school, but primary school is also organised for theoreticians and poorly adapted students who are strong in practical subjects. The options are far too narrow. This is a paradox as we know that working life is asking for more skilled workers, more people who choose practical occupations. Students must be more able to choose subjects according to their interests and their facilities and with a wide range of basic general education. All students must be given the opportunity to choose a job, as proposed by the Centre Party in the representative proposal 191 S for 2020-2021, which is now dealt with in the Stortinget. With several such options, we will also see that more people complete the school cycle. Today, the situation for those who drop out of high school is worse than ever. There are fewer and fewer jobs available for those with low formal qualifications, including: due to uncontrolled labour immigration from EEA countries. The labour market is getting tougher. In 2016, the government abolished the possibility of getting an action space for young people aged 16 to 18. In my opinion, this is a disaster. Early efforts are important, including in this area. The solution is not to put life on hold for two years, but rather to reintroduce and strengthen the system. Another measure to help young people is the practical letter system. The scheme was adopted in 2016, but unfortunately has not been followed up by the government with sufficient resources for the county municipalities. The state must assume its responsibilities. The argument we see, and that it's the local elected people who get thin, doesn't hold water. The centre party believes that this scheme must be put in place in all the counties and monitored with a total funding. Non-response is a challenge across the country, but the problem is particularly high in areas with a high proportion of immigrants. The main objective of the centre party is to reduce the differences between people, and then area-setting is an important tool. The initiative should be extended to several areas in the country, and it should be designed to strengthen outreach services and prevention police working closely in the environment. It was the red-green government that introduced the area deployments, and experience has shown that this is a tool that needs to be reinforced and further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e308	SV is behind all the proposals that are being put forward in the vote today, and thank you for your support. It is both a municipal and a state responsibility to ensure that there are good living conditions in cities as well as areas with great migration. I moved to Oslo in 1971 and lived in areas that were then considered to be heavily taxed and that had major crime problems. All my neighbors were Norwegian. This is a phenomenon that occurs in areas where there are difficult living conditions, where there are many who have poor income, and where the area around is quite poor. Major changes have been made here, including: through the deployment of site initiatives now in parts of Oslo and also in many other cities. That's very good. The evaluation of the Groruddals bet shows that it has been very successful, not only the physical environment, which of course means a lot to people, that one has good communities physically, but also what includes people among themselves. What this evaluation showed was the development of many new local leaders who took responsibility in their communities. It's absolutely invaluable that it happens. There are good reasons to continue with this, and there are very bad reasons to try to point out some people, stigmatize them, and say that they are responsible for this. That's not true. That's not true, but we're going to build good communities that include real people among themselves. To the suggestions that have been made: SV is behind them, and we very much agree with the arguments around, that it is very important that young people now have good opportunities to try out practical ways. Now after the corona, everyone knows that this has become even harder. It is not just about summer jobs, but it is also about how Nav’s portfolio is to be used, and it needs to be strengthened, so that it is possible for many more to try out. Therefore, the proposals for letters of principle are also very important. That's probably the way the representative from the Central Party, Heidi Greni, was up and saying, "Theoreticization is a problem," but it's also a big problem that there's not in some way some jobs that let young people in to try out for periods of time and so realize that you're actually doing something. There's a lot of these kids discover, that when they try, they see that yes, but I fix it, and then you go on. It's so incredibly important. I'm also a little sorry that the whole committee is not with me to point out that the labour market companies and VTA companies can be good venues for this type of work practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e325	Regional efforts should improve living conditions in vulnerable areas around the country. The bets are exceptional and are in addition to ordinary grant schemes. Area actions shall contribute to addressing challenges requiring cross-sectoral and administrative cooperation. The starting point for the agreements is that a municipality has challenges and takes initiatives towards the State for an agreement. The State contributes with competence and funding to support this. Municipalities wishing to have such a cooperation agreement must document needs and agree with the State on the appropriate measures and how to prioritise them. The Urban and Living Union Committee presented on 16 December 2020 NOU 2020:16 Year of Life in Cities, good community for all. The selection has addressed living and integration challenges in areas in and around the major cities of Norway. One of the tasks has been to assess the likely impact of the range bets. It has also proposed changes to existing instruments and strategies. During May 2021 we have a mid-term evaluation of the area operations in Oslo. Then we get a response to what results the site initiatives have given so far, and the effects of the overall effort. In the spring of 2021, the government will follow up the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The aim is to further develop work and follow-up other measures to improve living conditions in areas affected. On 26 March, the Government presented a communication to the Stortinget on secondary education, the completion reform. The aim is for nine out of ten to complete secondary education in 2030, so that they are better prepared for further education and working life. We are now introducing a right to complete advanced education. It will ensure that the offers become more flexible and that longer time can be used to complete. It is natural that we further develop the system of letters of practice in the light of the new right of completion. Young people are a priority in the follow-up and labour market actions of Nav. A September 2020 Fafo report shows that about 90 pst. of young people received an offer within eight weeks in 2018. We'll bet on the kids. That is why we have strengthened our efforts towards young people in the budget for 2021 and in relation to the supplementary proposal of 29 January this year. The aim is to improve living conditions in vulnerable areas and to ensure that as many young people as possible are qualified and prepared to participate in working life as adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e343	In January of this year, three of the members of the Urban and Living Councils, who recently delivered their report to the government, wrote the following in a chronicle at No.no: ‘The vulnerable areas of Norwegian cities have been lagging behind for a long time. As wealth grows elsewhere, they don't go along with it. And the corona has strengthened the differences." And on the other hand, ‘Most worrying is that more and more children are growing up in poverty and that these children live more geographically concentrated.’ What proposals from the report ‘Live years in cities — Good communities for all’ do the Council of State consider appropriate to reduce the inequality gap? I heard the Council of State say it was to be assessed this spring, but it could be nice to get an assessment from the Council of State in this debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e359	The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has supported a wide range of proposals, and there will be no time within a minute to review all those proposals. But what I can say is that we are going to go into all the proposals that have come, carefully evaluate them and see what is suitable for follow-up. Then it is also important to stress that in terms of the territorial and living conditions challenges in some of our largest cities, we need to cooperate closely with the municipalities, as the representative was in his post. I am fundamentally sceptical that in this Chamber we should decide, at our own expense, the arrangement of very specific measures, when those measures are something we should come up with in cooperation with the municipalities that are actually responsible for the bulk of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e364	Exposured communities with poor living conditions are central to reproducing differences in society and offer children reduced opportunities for the rest of their lives if they grow up in these neighbourhoods. Finding policies that balance living conditions, ensure social mobility, prevent poverty and give people the opportunity to live their own lives is crucial to the direction in which our neighbourhoods are developing. Who lives in a neighborhood is closely related to living conditions and thus income. In other words, working with more people means something for the development of an area. For example, the unemployment rates on Søndre Nordstrand were 3.9 p.m. before the Corona, and since August, the unemployment rates have been higher than 8 pst. Today, government parties say no to seven good proposals that could qualify young people for work in vulnerable neighborhoods. How will the government provide these young people with jobs and prevent exclusion for new generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e369	We work on a broad front with measures to help young people across the country, and not least young people growing up in vulnerable areas. Area initiatives are one of the measures that the government is using to do so, but the implementation reform, as I also mentioned, is incredibly important to ensure that more people have a better starting point in their lives. The representative is involved in many key factors that are essential to succeed in this work, and the government is working with everyone, in a slightly different way. The reason why we are not going into all these proposals now is partly because we are going to have a mid-term evaluation of the area measures in 2021, and partly because new detailed individual measures relating to the area actions are something we should come up with in cooperation with the municipalities concerned and which have the primary responsibility for this, and partly because we have other ongoing initiatives that we believe are addressing those issues in an equally good or better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e376	I will by no means blackmail the situation or be against good measures to solve the challenges we have. But as I said in my post, it's very important that we know what we're doing, that we know that we're blinking when we're trying to solve challenges. It was mentioned from the right in the post that there were several of the projects that had been put in place in the area operations, which had gone into normal operation, and that is probably correct. There was a special reference to Drammen in that connection. I know relatively well about the Drammen and have followed the project there for many years, and I miss to see an evaluation that shows that it has actually had a positive impact on the main challenges, which are growing-up conditions, poverty, exclusion, crime and drop-offs from high school. Can the Council of State indicate that this in the Drama, as it emerged from the Right in the post, has given the desired effect, and that those factors have improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e383	We have evaluated site initiatives, and they show some improvement potential, but also good results. But one of the things that the urban and living conditions committee points to is that we need better impact studies of the area initiatives, and I look forward to seeing the mid-term evaluation from the area initiatives in Oslo, just because I think there is a need to see if there are things we can do better and different. We spend a lot of government money on this, but it's really not about money use; it's about how we have to organize the way we work so that we get the best possible results, both at state and at municipal level. Many of these things are difficult to measure, because there are complex problems, and it's not always clear what is the causal link in those kinds of issues, but I totally agree that we need to have good knowledge, and we need to use the knowledge we have, to improve our efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e388	At least we agree that we need more knowledge, and that it is not so easy to point out some factors that have improved. I know that it has had a positive impact on some of the challenges in the urban areas that have had the projects, but with regard to the main issues, which are growing up conditions, poverty, exclusion, crime and non-return from high school, these problems, if we look at the Drammen, have actually become worse. When you have had a project throughout the entire period of this government and also most of the previous government period, and you just keep driving on with this money – and it’s huge sums – without knowing that it has had any effect on those main challenges, I think it’s strange. The Council of State now mentioned in the first response that there was a potential for improvement, but also good effects of the project in the Drammen. Then I wonder, what are the good effects of the Drammen project on the challenges I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e395	I can't explain it in detail. The project on Mountain is well, as far as I know, completed, or over in a new phase. Now there's a new project going on, which is far too early to evaluate, at Stroemsø, which I've visited several times. It's a little early to pass judgment on that project, but I think it seems like it's promising paces. One of the areas to help is to start working in new ways, to cooperate across actors who should cooperate better, in order to put those people who need our common help at the centre of the initiative. Then it's about talking better together and getting volunteering, business, municipal authorities and government agencies to coordinate better, cooperate better and target their efforts. My impression is that the area effort has helped to change the work methodology for the better around many of these key issues, which we are concerned with solving.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e402	Until 2016, there was a scheme of action places for young people up to 16 years of age, which was below Nav. I had contact with several parts of the city, e.g. Grorud district, and there it was approx. 30 young people aged 16–17 years who were in these places. Only in the parts of the Grorud Valley could it possibly be a few hundred young people between the ages of 16 and 17 who used these places. From 1 January 2016, the government abolished that scheme and raised the age limit to 18 years, and the reason was that everyone was going to school. But it meant that those who still fell out of school, which is a good part in these areas, had no practical measures. My question to the Council of State is: Will the government reconsider this? Isn't it better that those who still drop out have something to do and can get into a system that also allows them to come back to school? Is it not better that they have an action to be on than that they go without an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e409	We have just presented a completion reform. We are concerned that as many young people as possible should complete their education, so that they are best equipped for the rest of their lives. The reason for tightening up this scheme of measures from 1 January 2016 was that young people who consider leaving school do not want to have a clear economic incentive to do so. We don't need an incentive structure that makes it profitable for young people between the ages of 16 and 18 to actively seek out the school system, and that's what the system contributed to. That's why we tightened it up, and I think that made sense. Then we have to make sure that we have other measures to catch up with the young people of that age group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e414	Poverty is part of this problem. There I understand that the government does not want what SV wants, namely that we should distribute more evenly, so that more people actually manage. But what we're talking about now is measures to get those who are this out of school and working life back into work, and then it's a little outrageous to hear what the council thinks about a system where a 16-year-old who doesn't fit in school and has fallen out, gets a job and gets paid for it. It's not an intention to quit school, but it's an incentive to go to work, and it's instinctively many young people need, because they feel that it's a meaningful way to fill their day. What is the reason why the government doesn't see that for a youth to get into such a situation – to be able to get into work and experience that you actually earn a few dollars – is a good entrance, both to work and to take courage and perhaps get on with education later on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e421	I fully agree that there are some young people who need training that is more practical than the regular offers. That is why we have the practical letter system, which could be an offer, among other things. to the target population described by the representative. We disagree on whether we should have an economic incentive to leave school and enter the Nav system, for the purpose of action money is partly to encourage participation in labour market measures, but also to provide an economic incentive to participate in labour market measures. But we want young people between the ages of 16 and 18 to have an incentive to complete their education, whether it's practical or academicly correct, and we need to facilitate its attractiveness for young people. Then I think I disagree with the representative's description that the representative is more concerned with combating poverty than the government is. I think we share the goal of combating poverty, but we have different ways to do it. We have to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e431	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e438	I would like to thank the Committee for its thorough attitude and for its comments, which are very important and sensible, and of course I would like to thank the majority in the Committee on Support for the proposals. You can talk a lot about a positive development in the school in Oslo or in the school on a national basis, and that you have a completion reform that you want to implement, etc., but unfortunately, what is a fact is that in these vulnerable areas we are talking about here, when you look at the figures for the share that falls out of school, the figures I am now referring from the StatBank Denmark to the Municipality of Oslo, from when these young people are 29 years old, so there is little chance that they will finish later. These figures relate to these exposed areas, the sub-urban areas, as they are called. The latest figures are from 2019. There it is 46.5 pst. Which is the highest number, and in these exposed areas where we have range bets, the average drop-out rate is between 35 pst. and 46,5 pst. in the areas of residence. This means that among boys – for this is the average of boys and girls, and there are several girls who complete – the dropout rate could exceed 50 pst. in these exposed residential areas. Although you can point to a trend in the country that you get a little bit down on the percentage that falls out of school, and that you can come up with average figures for Oslo, etc., these are the areas that we're talking about today when we're talking about area bets. What I'm most concerned about is when I talk to the kids who are standing and saying to me, on my face, we don't have money, we don't have anything to do, there's drug dealers around the corner, and we want to sell or keep drugs. We can make thousands, tens of thousands on it. Do you have anything to offer us? What the preventive police and the follow-up team in the districts say to me – and that is why I have worked on this proposal – is that there is one thing that is crucial to them. It's that they, when they're talking to these kids, as I do, can say, you can meet up there in the morning, or you can meet up there in two days – having something concrete to offer. We have a model with summer jobs, as it's shown. It's a good model to get practical jobs where young people can be involved and do something, but it's talkin' about three weeks. These kids here need something all year long. This is the jumping point, in my opinion, in the area bets now. I believe that when we are going to develop the area effort in the coming years, we need to turn it more into working with young people in the danger zone, young people falling outside, and spending more resources on that part. That is why we have promoted these proposals. I hope that the government too can take it more seriously and bring something more concrete, to refer to practical letters, where there are 45 places throughout the country, that is not enough to meet that need and the question we are raising here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e453	This debate has made it clear that there is no doubt about where everyone in this Chamber will, but as stated, there is disagreement about the way to the goal. In order to know how it goes, it has to be evaluated, and I think it is strange that you know so little after so many years, as it has come to light in this debate. We are quite good in Norway to poke on with good measures, but not quite so good to check if they work. As soon as we get to a crossroads, we look at the possibility of cleaning up with even more funds, even more money, before we know if it works. As I mentioned in the cord shift, most of the indicators have gone in the wrong direction in the Drammen. Then there has to be something wrong with the device on the measures, and you have to look at it before you just brush on with more means, which probably look good and sound good in party speeches, but it's actually the results that count. The representative Andersen of SV said that the evaluation in Oslo shows good results. Yes, there are some good results, there are positive things to track in these projects. Several feel a belonging in society, there are several leaders, as Andersen's representative mentioned, and that's good and good, but it's very difficult when you start looking for the concrete results on the main challenges that I've mentioned a number of times, to see that it has had some positive effect there. Now we don't know what it would be like if we hadn't had a bet, but it could have been revealed if there had been a greater interest in this room to investigate it. So the representative mentioned Andersen in his post that it was wrong just to stigmatise a group and say that it was their fault, and she was thinking about immigrants. I am absolutely sure that Andersen's representative was thinking about my post then. What I did in my speech was point to the politicians who have decided on immigration policy. I pointed to immigration policy as a reason why we have had the development we have received. I didn't point at immigrants in any way, as far as I know, it's not immigrants who have been sitting and deciding what immigration policy we're going to have in Norway. There are politicians in this Chamber, and that responsibility must be borne by politicians in this Chamber. Without a link between the developments we've had and the policies that have been, it's just going to continue. Representative Andersen is one of the leading champions to continue intensifying and escalating progress in the wrong direction, and I hope that in future debates in the Chamber you can be a little more factual and talk about things and not people, because I haven't actually done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e466	This is mainly about giving those who live in different areas, good communities and good opportunities in their lives, and about getting them out of the huge amputation very many now feel. The differences have increased during this government, they have increased sharply, and what we know is that people living in families with very poor advice, also systematically have worse health than others. They have fewer opportunities to use the opportunities that society offers, and, unfortunately, they also have a poor sea view. There's no reason for it, but that's the way it is. That's what we're talking about right now, and that, to say it like that, is a big difference between SV and Right Distribution Policy. This government has systematically given the big money to the wealthiest, those who are doing very well from before, and have come to terms with benefits to those who are struggling. It's also happening here. The government can shake his head as much as he likes – it's just showing out the list. Several have come into a state of amputation. The description that Jan Bøhler now gave of the young people this is about is so important that the government also takes over, and then the problem is not that they, for example. I get little left in my wallet because they get up and go to work. That's not the problem; it could be the solution. It's not like you get these kids to get on the school bench right away, until they get over the bend and actually see that they can do something. That possibility is much greater if they get that chance somewhere in the world of work, where they can see what they're actually getting. If they get any money in the wallet as well, I think it'll be a great help both for the youth, for the family and not least for the motivation. The right is very much too economical in terms of those who already have the most. Then it helps with money. So for those who have little, you have removed this possibility for 16-year-olds. It's not true that it's just walking into Nav and saying, I've finished school, and now I'm going to have some action money. It's never been like that, and it's not going to be like that, but it's going to be an opportunity for the young people who need that opportunity, and who might need that encouragement, that they have to get back a little bit for the effort they're making, and it's an incredibly good lesson to bring with them, it's not heavy. Besides, I think that, in fact, large parts of the business would have benefited a lot from many of those young people, because there are a lot of good workers coming out of those who may not be able to do so well in school, but who when they get to try out in the workplace, have an incredible amount to contribute. So here you have to think about something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e477	This is a matter of an important measure to succeed with an important challenge we have. Regional efforts are concerned with balancing living conditions in vulnerable living conditions. Area initiatives are concerned with inclusion, safe and good housing, growth and neighbourhoods, volunteering in vulnerable local areas, increased quality of the physical environment and attractive meeting places, incentives for social entrepreneurship, prevention of alienation and crime, improvement of various public services, reputation and good living conditions, and better interlinking between overall urban development and concrete neighbourhood work. The centre party believes in good, targeted measures to improve conditions in vulnerable areas, and efforts, which are now being made, among other things. includes Oslo and Trondheim, we now propose to extend to, among others: Borderland in my county of Telemark, and the drabant town of Gulset as well as Lørenskog in Romerike. The centre party undertakes to invest in exposed areas. The Centre Party will reinforce regional efforts in order to better balance differences and, in particular, target them against the prevention of exclusion and poverty among children and young people. As this case has been highlighted here, among others. in the hall today, bets work. Evaluation of research results has also shown that area interventions as an instrument can have an absolute positive impact on living conditions and reverse negative living conditions in a specific, demarcated area. Furthermore, such efforts can help improve the reputation of areas and bring about positive economic processes through the establishment and transfer of more resource-intensive groups. That is why I really wish that we in the Central Party had gained much greater support for our proposals in this matter in the Chamber today, and I must say that I am disappointed with the government parties and the Progress Party, although they have arguments that suggest that they will not participate in some of these proposals. I hope at least that the minister will take some of them further into his job. I believe that when the Progress Party is so concerned with evaluations, there is so much on the table here that it should have been a good thing, if you were really very concerned about integration, to join in on some of these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e492	It was really just cards to the representative Engen-Helgheim, who asked questions about what we were referring to when it was about the area bet in Drammen. What was primarily in front of me was the experience that was gained when Jobbsjansen for women on the Mountain was organized through the area bet. The aim of the regional initiative is to increase employment and reduce low income, and what was done on the mountain has helped to increase the number of immigrant women in work, simply through empowerment and financial autonomy among women there. In order to recruit to the offer an early in the project period implemented a door-to-door action to disseminate information on the action, and the experience of this project has shown that most women who have participated are in work practice or in education now. The hub Drammen has also put women's job opportunities into normal operation and wants to continue to offer this action on Mountain, and it also means that they get better facilities and premises. The final evaluation showed that this investment on the mountain had been very successful, with good actions that have been of great importance to the population there, that the organisation of the project was good, and that there had been a short distance between the decision-makers and the project managers and the different stages of the organisation. It was this that was behind the example I was thinking about in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e501	I agree with what has been said here about looking at the arrangements for measures in the area operations, which is particularly the subject of the Progress Party. But what's the point of today's proposals is that we're looking at the device, and that we're proposing a better device for what we see as a major challenge in these areas, namely young people who fall outside and end up in different problems. It's a little too little just to say that you want an evaluation. That is what politicians tend to say when we do not know what to do, have no concrete proposals – then we want an evaluation. For my part, I have been following the area initiatives and working with them since 2006, and we have been doing a lot of physical work in terms of upgrading, security in the outdoor areas and things in these parts of the city. However, where we stand on the ground rest has not come any further and actually fewer measures now than before – because these Nav action money that we have been dealing with has been cut off for them to 16 years – for measures for young people who fall out of work, fall outside school and have nothing to do. It is a major source of sadly increasing juvenile delinquency in these areas. We need to understand the seriousness of that. Therefore, I am also a little questioning as to why – if you want to do something from the Progress Party, as mentioned for Mountain in the Drammen – it does not seem that it will at least be an advantage that they will have the opportunity to take action in Nav for up to 16 years of schooling. Is there not a few points that you could vote for, because it will probably help – not just be in favour of an evaluation? If you look at the budget for this year, 2021, it is – if you look at money that goes to entrepreneurship and that – 13 million. NOK within these areas, which goes to something that has to do with work, i.e. 13 million. kr of totality, and it's for the whole country. So it's too small, so what I'm hoping for is that we can get a turnaround in measures for young people falling outside, in future budgets and regional initiatives. The council refers to practical letters when we ask what we actually have for these young people, but according to the answer I received from the investigation department at Stortinget in the autumn, there are 45 places in the whole country. So there's no answer to them when only in one habitat is 46,5 pst. by the young people who are dropping out. There is no answer, nor does it mean that there are places for action and that they should be lured out of school by having these places of action. As far as I remember, the amount they received when the scheme was abolished in 2016 was NOK 4000 – if that was the week, it was at least more in pocket money size, i.e. an incentive. You were on something and you had a certain incentive, but it wasn't about any full pay. I would like to ask the Council of State: when there are 45 places in the practical letter system, will you bet on it further, or will you cut it out? The government is now dealing with a proposal to shut down this scheme, and then we're left with nothing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e514	In the case of the practical letter scheme, there is a two-year training course in the vocational training programmes where a large part of the training takes place in the enterprise. It is not that the number of spaces is limited, but the scheme is little used. Unfortunately, we don't know too little about it, and that's something we have to go closer to. But that's not the only arrangement we have, fortunately. We also have a system of apprentices that gives partial competence. It is individually arranged and may also be a relevant measure. So to the more general point of the representative: it is that everything can always get better, but we have just got a NOU on urban and living conditions challenges with a wide range of proposals that we are now going to go into and see if we can contribute to improving the results of our regional activity and work for better living conditions. Fortunately, there are some points of light, and that is that we are comparing ourselves with other countries, so the living conditions in Norway do not reach the list of living conditions areas in our neighbouring countries. That's something we're going to take with us as positive. It doesn't mean that things can't get better, they can obviously, and especially we have to do more to make sure that the young people don't fall off and fall out, but that we catch them up and give them a new chance to succeed and realize their potential. However, it is still a point of light that, after all, Norway is doing quite well in many areas, which means that our living conditions are far better than living conditions in our neighbouring countries. So just a little visit to the representative from SV: I feel that in many ways the representative expressed doubts about the government's motivation. I feel that is being unjustified. I believe that we are at least as concerned with combating poverty and improving living conditions as the SV representative is. But we have different types of answers in some questions than the representative has. It is an honest matter, but throughout it seems that the representative expressed doubts about our motivation and that we are not concerned about this. I think that is an unreasonable criticism. I also believe that through our reign the list is long of targeted bets to help children and young people who are struggling, give them a better start to life, but in some questions we have different entrances, and that must be allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e527	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e532	There is a big difference between whether you want to increase income and the opportunities for those who have the worst, or whether you choose to spend the money on those who are the richest. You raise the whip and take benefits from those who have the most difficulty, while you have very liberal arrangements for those who have the most. For example, during the Korona crisis, there are many people. not made one claim to the richest not to quit people. There's a lot of novelty for the time – there's a lot of oil drilling for the climate right now. When I'm going to see what people actually put on, I keep my eye on where the money goes. I see that there's a big difference between what the Right really thinks they can afford when it 'bears in the heel'. It would have helped many of these young people and many of these vulnerable neighborhoods if those families had both received better advice and we had given them much greater opportunities, and if we had spent the money on better social security networks and ensured that there were more well-functioning communities. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e537	I regret to extend this debate, but I believe that the criticism that the representative here is making is wrong and unreasonable. One of the most important things we can do to help reduce differences is make sure that people get into work. The most important difference in society is between those who have jobs and those who don't have jobs. Contributing to the creation of more jobs is therefore incredibly important. It is linked to a tax policy that makes it attractive to create jobs in Norway, including among Norwegian small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not to enrich the rich, as the representative makes it, that we have made it more attractive to create jobs in Norway. On the contrary, if you take the money out for private consumption, you pay a lot more in taxes than you did when the representative from SV crashed the country, while if you leave the money in the companies and create new jobs, you get better out than you did before. I think that's a positive thing. We have to bet on school. We can't risk getting a school where it's important to know the multiplication tables, said another SV representative once – understood: Basic skills are not something we should bet on. Well, for us, that's the opposite. We need to bet on basic skills to give our children a good start to life. That might separate SV's and Right School policy. For the right, school policy is an important part of social policy and an important part of balancing social differences. We need an integration promise. The government has launched this. We have to include more in the labour market. We have therefore launched an inclusion table. We have launched a strategy against child poverty. We have launched a leisure card. We are taking a number of measures. In some areas, we disagree with SV about what works, and what doesn't work, but to doubt our motivation and say that we are not concerned with combating poverty and giving people a good start to life – I don't buy it, I think it's unreasonable. It is repeated from the representative time and time again, almost in all debates, that this is the way it is. We would like to disagree on the matter, but let us not doubt each other's motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e547	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e564	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e571	The price growth in the housing market is hot by day, and politicians, experts and academics fill the gap meters with analyses and good advice for special youth. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is very important that as much as possible be given the opportunity to own owner-occupied dwellings, and the answer to that question is therefore that adequate housing needs to be regulated and built, especially where demand is high. An effective municipal construction treatment is one of the answers to raising the domestic supply here in the country. Will the process of building be more effective as the proposals that are being promoted today provide a clearer language and a clearer use of concepts, or by introducing housing as a central consideration in planning under the law? Let's at least hope that this will help to increase the supply of housing in the future. It is good that the government today makes proposals that give the municipalities room for action to make demands that can be met in practice, and I am going to give the Council the right to make housing and building owners in Norway have a great desire to upgrade dwellings and construction works. With regard to the extension of the purpose paragraph of the Planning and Building Act, we believe that the change does not lead to a reduced level of requirements for the availability of dwellings, but is a clarification of today's purpose paragraph, and this proposal provides us with a clarification of today's legal status. In the spring of 2015, the Labour Party asked the government to put forward proposals in order to increase the possibility of preventing speculative buying-in and conversion of rental apartments to an irresponsible number of residents. Why this has taken six years, is a riddle, and we can only ask ourselves if the government has had a little hurt in complying with the Storting's will, but today we are here. We are pleased with the government's proposal, but we believe the government could extend further, and refer to our proposal that there should only be two households in one housing unit. In the cancellation, we address the government's lack of desire to highlight the challenges of more people buying apartments where the owner does not plan to live in the dwelling that is purchased, but rather rent out to others. Figures from the SSB show that the proportion of owner-occupied dwellings is falling. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is an objective to own the owner-occupiers as much as possible. Finally, I would like to give an explanation of vote in which the Labour Party states that we will vote in favour of SV's proposal No. 3, where, as SV, we want to explore the possibility of proposing changes to the law or regulation to ensure that dwellings built for the owner market are not sold to commercial landlords. This can give municipalities more tools in the toolbox to ensure that those who want to own their own housing are able to do so. With this I recommend the Committee's recommendation on this matter. So I would like to make the hall aware that in this case there is a correct version.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e590	There are about 4.2 million buildings in Norway, and this proposition deals with the legislation that has meaning for their use and management. Private and professional owners, construction industries and public authorities are affected by this legislation. The legislation shall ensure that construction works are in a defensive state and that safety, health and the environment are protected. In order to ensure a good exploitation of a manifold and complex building mass, the legislation must both provide room for flexibility and set a level of requirements that can be met in practice. Today's legislation has proved at times to be complicated and difficult to understand. There is something that can help to prevent the building mass from being exploited in its full potential. The goal here is to facilitate the use of buildings, make them accessible and not to be affected. During Stortinget's treatment of Prop. 39 L for 2016–2017, Owners’ Section Act, and Innst. 308 L for 2016–2017, Stortinget adopted an appeal decision asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a holistic bill that assesses the various issues of hybridisation both in the Owners' Section Act and in the Planning and Building Act. The call for a decision on hybridisation is followed up in this proposition, and there are also proposed changes to both the Owners' Section Act and the Planning and Building Act. The aim of these changes is to counteract the negative consequences of hybridisation, such as poor building quality and poor urban environment. Improvements are to be achieved by providing better tools for managing and influencing the extent of unwanted hyblication both to municipalities and to the individual community. As the case-speaker mentioned, there is a correct version of this case. There was an incursion in which a paragraph error occurred, causing a wrong attitude to the proposal of the commoner's right to decide on the interior design of the building unit. This is now corrected. In conclusion, there are over 4 million buildings in Norway. It is important to ensure closeness and stimulate that we provide an upgrade of these dwellings as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e607	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a neat and thorough review of a matter that is intended – I heard – to make things easier. I don't know if all the actors who read the proposition and the new promise feel that things get so much easier and less complicated. I rather think that this is part of creating even more paper and even more that needs to be done. But leave it alone. I agree with the idea that we should have a policy that would enable people to own their own housing, and that there was the case-speaker at the heart of the problem, that it would be built too little and planned too little. The main responsibility for this is well shared between the local politicians in the city we are now in, the capital, where the case-leader's party is the City Councillor. It is planned, regulated and built for a few dwellings. In many municipalities it is also built and regulated too little. The main problem for many district councils is that the state and the state administrator make it difficult for them to realize the housing they want, so it's an overarching challenge picture. When it comes to this matter in concrete terms, there are two issues that have shaped the debate. The one is the input of universal design from different organisations. I think it's important to stress that we can't have a system where absolutely all the dwellings should be arranged for absolutely everyone. It must be possible to have today's housing stock without costly demands everywhere, which will impose enormous costs on private owners. There I agree with the line that the government has laid down on, and I don't want to go in the direction that SV suggests in comments and suggestions, that absolutely everything should be universally designed, because it will be very expensive. Then there's a point where the Progress Party separates from the rest of the Committee and the Storing. This applies to what is allowed to do within a section of the same section. There we have fundamental respect for private ownership and believe that it is the private owner of a section to determine how to design their apartment in a unit within the law and regulations. It would be wrong to grant the joint board extended powers and the right to determine the content of the unit to a private man or woman, so we will vote against the proposals to move power and authority from private ownership to a single one. Otherwise, we support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e620	In this proposition, the Government promotes several legislative proposals to clarify existing legislation, to reinforce measures to combat hyblicisation, and to provide municipalities and communities with better tools to influence the extent of hyblicisation. Splitting apartments into several housing units, so-called hybridisation, is an increasing problem and leads to a poorer living environment and reduced quality of living. When one housing unit becomes more, there are a number of challenges involved. Common areas, ventilation, fire safety etc. is not dimensioned to serve as many people. Hybridisation is often a simple, but not appropriate way to create housing for more people. It'll have to be built more. Part of the problem is that in urban areas there is a large-scale purchase of dwellings where section holidays do not live themselves, but operate extensive and frequent short-term rental through Airbnb and so on. Several joint ventures already face challenges of renting – renting leads to increased burden on common areas, increased consumption of community services, increased noise, increased alienation in neighbouring conditions and increased costs of maintenance, administration, etc., and increased neighbouring conflicts and a less pleasant living environment. This is a problem it is important to follow-up. For this reason, the majority have made proposals today that the use of the utility unit cannot be modified without the consent of the board of directors to require a change of common installations or of other common areas if the use of all utility units changes in the same way. Decisions may provide that housing sections cannot be reconstructed or otherwise physically arranged for the rental of more than two households within one unit of use. It means, in practice, that the apartment cannot be changed materially without the consent of the board. There is a follow-up to the request decision at the Innst. 308 L for 2016-2017. Furthermore, the local authority is extended to grant exemptions for technical provisions, which is a positive change leading to greater access for municipalities to locally adapted solutions. It is based on local knowledge and it strengthens local democracy. The lot specifies that it is a condition of the law that the exemptions granted are considered to be sound in terms of safety, health and the environment. Those assumptions must underpin all housing construction and development. Finally, the debate on universal design. In my opinion, this amendment of the law does not weaken the universal design requirement, as it is already well cared for, among other things. in construction regulations TEK-17. Further, we refer to Innst. 47 S for 2020-2021, where the Centre Party promoted a number of proposals to ensure universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e639	First of all, the part of the law changes that is about housing. SV fully agrees with the Workers' Party in terms of hygiene. A little bit to the debate on ownership of owner-occupied dwellings: Yes, it's important, but when you live in a common home or a housing law, a change like a hybridization and division, where suddenly there are very many inside apartments that are actually intended for family apartments, of course affect the property of others and not only degrade the quality of living, but perhaps even burden the infrastructure of the building. So it's very important that we get tightened up on it. We believe that the government does not go far enough. When it comes to figuring out an opportunity to say that dwellings built for ownership are to be used in the real estate market, it's very important, because I've seen some examples recently, where OBOS sold a housing block to a commercial rental company. Then it will be the municipality that will regulate how much to rent and how much to own. Then you can have a good mix. So to the debate on universal design. The whole Storting has now been contacted by disabled people’s organisations. They agree with SV and see that these changes introduced by the government now may weaken universal design requirements. It's because you kind of put yourself on an interpretation where you can realize universal design through organization and customization, and that's turning the principle on your head. There's a strong need that we now in everything we do, actually facilitate that it's universally designed. It's not just for the disabled, because most of us in life will need things organized. There are more than enough areas in this society that are not available and organized. We don't need any more of that. We need to make sure that everything new we're doing now, actually keeps that standard forward. Then it is not right to change either the purpose paragraph or to open up more municipal exemptions, as the majority now do. Then I hear everyone says they've thought this isn't a debilitating thing, and I'm happy about it. But that means we have to keep up with now and not have a general acceptance so that we keep building things that are not universally designed. In the housing sector, it is very important because there are so many parts of the housing market that are not available to people who need it, for example. universal design as standard. For the rest of us universal design is not a problem, nor is it as expensive as anyone claims it is. I take up SV and the Workers' Party's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e654	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e659	This is an aggregate proposition dealing with slightly different adjustments and legislative changes in the law. I want to focus on the changes that are being made in order to prevent the unfortunate consequences of hybridisation. It is a new word that has appeared in the previous ageing period, which describes that apartments are purchased and divided into smaller units such as furniture, often in view of short-term workers travelling to the labour force, for example. the construction industry. There is nothing wrong with travelling workers and commuters who need to be accommodated in a place, but we understand that there are challenges in a housing law when an apartment intended to be one housing unit is divided into three or five. Then crooked like the balance, and even though the implicated people are quite ok, it is a fact that the housing and housing community in the block has become something quite different. This proposition proposes to counteract the negative consequences of hybridisation, such as poor quality of living and the living environment, etc. This is to be achieved by providing better tools for managing and influencing the extent of hybridisation both for municipalities and for the individual community. Amendments to the law are proposed in both the owner’s section and the planning and building law as tools for this. This is also a follow-up to previous request decisions in Stortinget. Under the Ownership Act, the Government proposes to introduce a new rule that provides that units of use cannot be rebuilt or otherwise arranged as housing for more persons than is usual for units of use with an equivalent size and space resolution, without the agreement of section owners first being obtained from the annual meeting by a two-thirds majority. The Planning and Building Act proposes to authorise the adoption of the provision for the division of housing units into units of furniture both in the area section of the municipal plan and in the regulatory plan. Both parts are a good adjustment to the law and balance well what is the principle of these questions. For it all boils down to finding the right balance between the rights of the owner and the influence of the community and the harm on others. This is one of the core boundaries of policy in general and often has one or the other side of the battle, from which ice the different batches are most connected. We also see that in this setting. We as the Christian Democratic Center Party are satisfied with the solution that has been found. It boils down to the fact that ownership is strong in Norway and should be so, but at the moment that my freedom leads to problems or goes beyond others, it needs policies to ensure balance. In everyday life, such challenges are often solved with common peoples – thank you and thank you! – but when there are as strong economic aspects in the matter as it is related to housing, the large community represented by this assembly must establish driving rules. I'm glad the majority are in on this, so we'll see when it's worked for a while if this becomes useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e678	The government will facilitate the use, maintenance and modernisation of existing buildings so that people can use the buildings according to their own needs and wishes. If you want to change the dwelling or the building, it may be difficult to know which rules and requirements apply. In addition, technical requirements intended for new buildings often have to be met, and many owners have learned that it is both difficult and costly to obtain. This is what the government will clean up. That is why we have proposed simpler rules for changing housing and construction. The proposition is to clarify the nature and requirements of the work covered by the Law on Planning and Building. Local authorities shall be given greater access to granting exemptions from technical requirements as long as safety, health and the environment are well cared for. It is better to upgrade construction to a better standard than not to change it and in the worst case it is empty and due. We've also suggested making it easier, for example. changing a dwelling cabin or using an empty room for something new and valuable. The government also proposes changes to prevent construction from being dangerous or embarrassing to the environment, for example: after damage to the natural environment, accident or lack of maintenance. The ability of the municipality to provide and to implement mandatory measures is increasing and is becoming more and more evident. The principle of universal design is to be observed in planning and the processing of construction products, subject to the provisions of the law. The government proposes to include the consideration of availability in the provision, which is the requirement applicable to dwellings. It has been taken up in this room, among others. by Mr Andersen, that there is concern that this is a legislative impairment as it is, but it is important to clarify that the legislative proposal does not alter the applicable universal design and accessibility requirements. Smaller and more reasonable sleeves can be a good solution for, among other things. students. At the same time, the division of housing units into cabinets, what we call hyblicating, can lead to poorer living conditions, more noise and reduced fire safety. Unwanted hybridisation prevents municipalities from controlling the development of the housing stock. The government therefore proposes legislative changes that will provide both municipalities and communities with better tools to manage the restructuring – the municipalities through plans and the communities through decisions at the annual meeting. A majority of the Committee has proposed a supplement to Section 25 of the Ownership Act. The proposal has not been examined and could lead to confusion as to which rules apply, both because it has not defined what ‘household’ is — and may thus conflict with, for example. Student collective, which one still wants to have — and because there is a potential conflict between the board and the annual meeting of the proposal as it stands. Where we have proposed that the annual meeting should have decisive power, it is also that the board should have that power, and that could lead to a unclear legal state. I believe, in any case, that the government's proposal is enough to meet the challenges of hybridization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e692	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e697	For six years we have reminded and reminded the government that the Council of State would make proposals where the common people would have more opportunity to prevent speculative buying-in and conversion of apartments for rental to an irresponsible number of residents. It must be allowed to wonder why it has taken six years to fulfill the Storting's will. In the consultation round relating to the proposals for hybridisation, several points have been made to challenges related to poor and low-stable living environments as a result of penetration, many residents per housing unit and increased fire risk. Why has the government spent so much time fully complying with the decision of the Storting? Has there been little willingness in government offices to contribute to more stable and less flammable living environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e704	The one waiting for something good is not waiting in vain, and today is the day. But from joke to serious: these are complicated legal issues. I should like to see, of course, that we had managed to present this earlier. It should also be said that there have recently been other, corona-related issues that may have had to be given priority over this, so there has been some delay. I agree that it's taken too long, but now we're here, and that's why we're happy about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e711	Yes, I agree. In the cancellation, we address the government's lack of desire to explain the challenge of several buying apartments where the owner does not plan to live in the dwelling that is purchased, but rather rents out to others. Figures from the SSB show that the proportion of owner-occupied dwellings is falling. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is an objective to own the owner-occupiers as much as possible. The growth in housing prices has increased dramatically in the last year, and young people have to borrow much more than my generation had to to buy their first dwelling, and more people now have to rent a dwelling. What does the government actually do to get the housing supply up? Is there any concrete change going on, or will the government just continue to shift all responsibility to the municipalities without driving any policy development itself to get the housing supply up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e720	It is important to remember that it is actually the municipalities that are responsible for regulating and facilitating housing, not the government. But of course we have to do our job to help municipalities do the best possible job in this area. Among other things, we have systematically done a job to make it easier and cheaper to bring up new dwellings, simplified legislation, except for a number of actions from the obligation to apply, which frees up the capacity of the planning and building permits. However, it is clear that when it takes four and a half years to produce a regulatory plan, for example. Oslo Municipality, it also takes time to build. It's hard for the government to do something about, but what we're doing is to contribute, for example. digital tools to enable municipalities to process more quickly and thus to bring forward plans more quickly. It is a challenge that housing prices rise, but it is important to stress that eight out of ten live in their own home in Norway. They own it. That's good, but of course we have to help make it easier for young people too to get into the housing market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e727	For the centre party, it's irrelevant to be involved in a weakening of the universal design requirement, so when we go for the setting, it's with an understanding that this change does not lead to a lower level of protection in terms of universal design. The Council of State was in on it in its contribution, but I would like the Council of State to confirm once again that this is not a weakening of the universal design requirement, and that he can go a little deeper into why we can be sure that that requirement is at stake.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e732	I can assure the representative that the proposition does not change the concrete requirements of universal design and availability that apply today. Adding to the availability of the legal objective will not weaken universal design and social equality requirements or conflict with human rights. The addition should highlight the importance of access to housing, and I believe that this is a good addition in view of the involvement of the representative. There is therefore no weakening of the requirements of today's legislation in the proposal under consideration today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e737	I think, unfortunately, it is, and that has been pointed out by the organisations of the disabled, both when the proposal was out for consultation and now, and they are quite clear about it. The problem is that it states that the universal design principle is to be ‘estimated through availability requirements’. That's the problem. Then you interpret a much more comprehensive concept, which is universal design, so that it can be achieved through something that is much less accessible. Doesn't the Council of State see that there is a change, that is, that universal design is the principle, but in the case of housing, is it to be cared for in a much more limited way? It will, of course, weaken the universal design requirement, not strengthen it, because you put an interpretation into the concept that is restrictive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e742	In my reply to Mr. Greni's representative, I state that this proposition does not change the specific requirements of universal design and availability that apply today. Here's the keyword "today". Because it is not and has never been such that there has been a universal design requirement for all dwellings in Norway. There has been a demand for availability. It shall be continued unchanged. The universal design requirement shall be maintained unchanged. The only difference is that you take the requirement that already applies to the availability of dwellings into the purpose paragraph of the law. This way you make it clear that this is important, but the requirement remains the same as it has been all along, and so there's no change in the legal situation. We fully agree on the importance of universal design that applies today to work buildings and public spaces in public buildings and for some outdoor areas, and of course we have to keep working on that every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e749	Well, the problem remains because here you put a limiting definition of what universal design should be, and that means you put in that there's going to be a definition that's going to be governing in the future. But we'll see. We have to follow up on this. I have another question for the Council of State, and it is about the proposal that SV has promoted to investigate the possibility that the Planning and Building Act should ensure that dwellings built for the own market are not sold to commercial landlords. It is a tool that municipalities should have in order to ensure that there are enough dwellings in the own market, because an important part of the market is that there are dwellings there. It does a lot with the price if those who are professional owners can buy up the dwellings that are built into the real estate market, because they have the opportunity to squeeze prices, and there are fewer dwellings in the real estate market. Does the council see that it could be good if the municipalities had such an opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e758	As for the first thing the representative mentioned, the fact that we are now promoting a restrictive definition of universal design that applies to dwellings is not true, because that definition has been there all along. So it's not a change. The only thing is that we make it visible that this is important in housing, but that's the requirement, as it has always done, for housing. So there's no change in it, and there's no need to worry about it, so I can calm the representative on that point. Then we look at the possibilities for municipalities to regulate for different purposes, in addition to what they have today, for example. the possibility of regulating a higher proportion of social housing, rental dwellings in that sense. When it comes to a ban on professional landlords, I'm not sure if it serves a purpose, as the representative claims, because we deserve those who have to rent to have a professional market to deal with, and that there are not only private people who rent out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e766	But that is not what this proposal is all about. It's not about a ban on professional landlords. It is assumed that a municipality can say in the regulations that dwellings built for ownership should be too own, and then you can also regulate for professional owners or private owners. It'll also be an opportunity to rent. The only question is whether the Council of State sees that there can be an instrument that municipalities need when there is scarcity of land. What is really needed is that there are enough condominiums in the market to have a certain effect on the price. It has nothing to do with whether the lessor is professional or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e771	I interpreted ‘commercial lessors’ as ‘professional’. But it's clear that if it's like a private individual, for example. The representative, Andersen, buys an apartment in Oslo in order to live there, and then the representative, Andersen, has to live somewhere else for a period of time, it is perhaps too rigid that it should not be possible to rent out that dwelling. In that case, such a proposal must be defined very clearly, so that it does not have unintended consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e776	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e783	This case is linked to the previous case we dealt with in the Storting today, namely the area initiatives, because it is in the same areas where we have problems with the problems that the hygiene creates poorer living environments. The fact that we get to buy apartments and divide into many furniture is a heavy burden on the local environment in various ways, ranging from infrastructure to the social environment, hard work, etc. The message of this has come from below. This is one of the best examples we have, the decisions taken here today, on questions addressed by the population. As far as hyblicisation is concerned, there were several representatives from several parties on the Stortinget who were at the people's meeting at the Rome in Groruddalen in the autumn of 2014, where the movement of addressing these questions started. Even I worked with interpellation in Stortinget, there was a proposal for a representative from us, and the government came up with its proposal for a new law on ownership – it is referred to the request decision from the handling of it. I was the case rapporteur for the Ownership Act when we dealt with it in Stortinget. What it was all about was that the government initially — it was the Council of State, Sanner, who had the case at that time as a municipal minister — hesitated to take a position, but was involved in some proposals that the government was to be asked to consider. One of those proposals was finally received today. However, I would also like to say that the previous Minister for Municipalities, the Minister of State, Mæland, has made a proposal that is important. The rule that you can only buy up two apartments in one company was so much bypassed that there was a proposal that we dealt with here in Stortinget, about a tightening of this rule, so that one person, for example. cannot participate in more than one AS, create more than one AS and buy more dwellings, or that relatives can buy more dwellings, i.e. there are common interests, or different other methods used to circumvent that rule. We saw, for example, in the area north of the Groruddalen that there were some who owned up to ten apartments, and perhaps more than that, which were used only for rent by dividing into many furniture in one unit. So there's also an important tightening in the ability to buy apartments in the joint. It is great if the Council of State could be aware of also the control of the decision and the new rules, if they are implemented. So I'd like to say in the end when it comes to hyblicating, that it's important to be aware that this is also a problem in lost space, not just in the joint, where you buy up villas and divide them into many furniture. I believe that the proposals in the Planning and Building Act can give municipalities better tools to do something about it, but it is part of this issue that will also report with increased weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e796	As already stated, the Workers' Party also considers that, with regard to the extension of the scope of the Planning and Building Act, the proposed amendment would not lead to a reduced level of access to dwellings, but would clarify today's purpose paragraph. With this proposal, we will have a clarification of today's legal situation. We also believe it is important that work on universal design regulations is put in place. I would also like to refer to the comments and suggestions of the Labour Party in various contexts here in the Stortinget. We have promoted a number of proposals for universalisation. We have proposed that the government should present an action plan for an accessible Norway in 2025 and a universally designed society by 2035, including a concrete funding plan. We have also proposed that the Stortinge should support the goal of all children attending their secondary school by 2030, and asked the government in the context of the state budget for 2021 to present a plan for the Stortinge to follow up the road map for universally designed secondary school 2030 – to mention some of the proposals we have been working on here in Stortinge during this period. In June 2008, the Stortinget examined a proposal by the government of Stoltenberg on the Act on the Prohibition of Discrimination on grounds of disability: the Discrimination and Availability Act. Furthermore, the government presented an action plan on universal design and increased accessibility in May 2009. The government of Stoltenberg showed that the then government’s vision was that Norway should be universally designed just by 2025. The government of Stoltenberg indicated that the goal was ambitious, but possible. The action plan showed how that government would lay the basis for achieving this ambition through different time-limited objectives and actions in different sectors. Much time has been lost with the government of Solberg in this work, and the deadline for a universally designed Norway was removed. But we have proposed a new deadline and it is in 2035. Much needs to be explored and new policies developed to achieve the goal of a universally designed Norway in 2035.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e807	In the light of today's debate, it is important to stress that it is very important that we continue the high ambitions we have in areas that include the development of housing, infrastructure and outdoor areas, and that we ensure good compliance with the legislation on accessibility and universal design. There is an obligation to universal design for those parts which are directed towards the general public under the Equality and Discrimination Act § 17. This means that all new construction works for the audience and work buildings should be universally designed according to today's requirements in TEK17. For all new meeting rooms, universal design concerns will still be well taken care of. I have noticed that in today's debate it may appear as if the representative from SV suggests that there is today a demand for housing to be universally designed. It must come of a misunderstanding. The Law on Planning and Buildings has not and has never required housing to be universally designed, but it is an accessibility requirement that is applicable to dwellings. The universal design requirement applies mainly to public and work buildings and outdoor areas of different dimensions. This proposition does not change the accessibility requirements that are currently in building regulations, nor does it lead to a reduced level of availability in buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e818	Work on a universally designed Norway is going too late, and one of the first things that this government did was to remove the deadlines for it to be possible. Then there is the discussion of the purpose paragraph of this law. I just want to draw attention to the fact that all the organisations of disabled people who have worked on this seem to be now confirming a definition of universal design in a restrictive way, and that it will change the situation and in a way add a level and a list of universal design that is much lower than what we should have. I have not said that this has been a requirement for dwellings before, but now we confirm that there will not be any claim for housing in the future either. It should be. One should raise the standard in the future and ensure that more dwellings are actually universally designed and accessible to the market for those with different types of disabilities – either through life or innate. The problem is that you kind of take a step back and define universal design as availability. That's the main problem. I just want to say that all parties have received this letter where the organisations agree to this because they feel that it will be weakened. The experiences they have, I think we'll notice, because they're struggling with this around in every municipality, linked to every building. It's going really slow, and it's also like, for many places -- the sea where the requirements are even more obvious -- that you either jump over it, or you don't have enough skills to implement it enough. It's not a good way to develop a society, because if society is universally designed, it's going to be a great advantage for all of us in all walks of life. Finally, this proposal to make changes to the Planning and Building Act so that dwellings built for the own market can be regulated in such a way that they remain on the own market. The problem is that there are too few owner-occupied dwellings in the market. If you then allow professional buyers to buy up the entire block, those who need a dwelling will depend on having to rent – at the same price and never get into the housing market, simply because there has been someone there and taken away from the homes you could buy, start owning a boat and paying down on your own property. I think this should be a proposal we adopted unanimously, because I hear everyone saying that they want to be able to own their own home as much as possible. That is why this proposal is being promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e831	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e848	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e855	Let me first thank the Committee for a good cooperation in this matter. There is an overall committee behind the vote, and all but the Progress Party are at least united on most of the comments. The national minorities in Norway, where we do not expect to be together in this context, are Jews, women, forest fins, Romans and romantics or tattoos. We are talking here about small and vulnerable groups with very different origins and history in our country. The challenges are therefore also different. Where, for example, the roman people, women and forest fins have been the subject of assimilation policy, Jews and Romans have been subjected to exclusion. Only in this are there fundamental differences that give rise to very different needs. Therefore, in the examination of this Communication, the Committee did not go into the depths of the challenges facing individual groups, but rather held a general perspective, with common rights and challenges being the main theme. The political and legal position of national minorities is enshrined in the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and in some other international conventions Norway has also joined. The three overall objectives are to involve national minorities actively in society and to express and further develop their language and culture, to involve national minorities in public decision-making processes, and to provide good and equivalent services to national minorities. While there have been positive developments in all these areas in recent years, there is no need to go far into the matter of individual groups until it is also seen that this is a very demanding area that demands tailoring and constant attention to each group. Good communication between the state and individual groups is therefore essential. In this context, there is reason to stress the importance of enabling the respective groups to have well-run and as representative stakeholder organisations as best as possible to act as parties to the talks of State authorities. Of course, the regular meetings that are being held today are of great importance. Minority policy is not just a policy to solve minority problems in isolation. There is also a policy on opportunities and diversity. Trust, identity and self-esteem are key words in this regard. Many of the problems we face today are the results of previous generations' prejudices. Unfortunately, knowledge of the national minorities is still generally low in the majority, and we have to do something about this. It is here, as so often happens, natural to point to the school, but it is also important that minority history and culture are documented in libraries, archives and museums, and that minority culture audiences are visible on the Norwegian cultural scene. Only then will we learn to listen and be proud of all participants in the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e870	First, I would like to take the opportunity to acknowledge the thorough work that underpins this big message about national minorities. It was important that we now get a new comprehensive account of developments in the last 20 years and what the government thinks are the most important steps to strengthen the situation of national minorities in Norway in the coming years. Norway is obliged, through international conventions, to work towards equality between national minorities and the majority population, both formally and in practice. Today, we see that the formal rights of national minorities in Norway are largely in place. Nevertheless, we still see that this is not always followed up in practice, and that's exactly where our greatest focus should be in the future. How can we follow up on this from the political side to ensure that our national minorities are actually equal to the rest of society? How do we ensure that opportunities are given to continue their language and cultural heritage to future generations, and to participate in society in the same way as everyone else? The working party here supports the three main objectives described in the message: National minorities shall be able to participate actively in society and to express and further develop their languages and culture. National minorities shall participate in public decision-making processes. National minorities shall have access to good and equivalent services. In several areas, we have a little bit of a proud story to look back at when it comes to the treatment of national minorities by the large community in Norway. Unfortunately, there are still examples of these being discriminated against and prejudiced. There are also examples of the fact that trust in the big society for some is still weakened as a result of the discrimination that has occurred throughout history. The wrong that has occurred shall be brought into the light. It is important as part of the upliftment of those who have been wronged, and that we as a large community should be able to learn from the mistakes that have been made, and do what we can to restore confidence. Therefore, work undertaken to detect the injustice and the compensation mechanisms established in the wake of it is important as measures to promote reconciliation and strengthen confidence. It is essential that minorities feel heard and seen by the authorities. Therefore, well-functioning organisations that can represent each minority group in dialogue with the authorities are essential. It is important that we continue to work to strengthen cooperation with these organisations. The Labour Party will never accept any discrimination against any individual or group. The only way to prevent the repression of minorities is that the majority clearly shows that we do not accept it. We are pleased that there is a broad cross-political consensus on the main principles of the policy to be pursued towards our national minorities. This is essential for these groups to have the fundamental right they have to further develop their identity, cultural history and language in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e897	As the rapporteur has pointed out, it is an overall committee that promotes its recommendation to the Stortinget. It is in itself a strength, and I think it is important to point out that the large majority of the committee is aware that it needs to be targeted in several areas of minority policy, and that it needs to be in dialogue with those concerned. It specifies that closer follow-up to the position and rights of national minorities in Norway is desirable and necessary in day-to-day practical policy work. The Storting Message shows, for example: on how policy developments have been since the last notification, which came 20 years ago, and at the same time on a new big-time report. The notification applies, as mentioned above, to the five national minorities of Jews, women/Norwegian fins, Romans, romanians/taters and forest fins. These are minorities with very different backgrounds, culture, language and history, but all of which form an important part of the whole Norwegian society. For the Central Party, it is important that, as a society in general, we become better acquainted with our minorities and that relevant public bodies have the necessary knowledge in particular. We see that there is a need for better dialogue in many areas, and that in turn will lead to increased trust. Unfortunately, throughout history all these minorities have been subjected to serious discrimination, and even more regrettable is the fact that many people within these minorities continue to experience discrimination and racism. It's totally unacceptable, and we have to – all of us – do what we can to counteract this. Dialogue and knowledge are important, but they also require acceptance and respect. I think it must be a matter of course that everyone should be proud of the culture that you have and your background, and that you should stand up to it. As is shown by both the perception of consultation and the change of words, there are, of course, enough people directly affected by the message, different feedback and different priorities. The more important it is that the different organisations still have a good meeting point with the ministry, and that youth are increasingly involved. Finally, I would like to repeat the three main objectives listed in the Storing Message, which the Centre also fully supports: National minorities take an active part in society and can express and further develop their languages and culture. National minorities participate in public decision-making processes. National minorities receive good and equivalent services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e924	It is important that national minorities can also stand up in their own culture, have said more and stressed. I think that's important, and that must mean that in the future we're increasing our efforts in those areas, so that they can be recognised as such, and perhaps also become acquainted with their own culture, because it's a part that's actually not. So that's the point of being represented and heard. That's an incredibly important point. At the same time, we make some demands on these organizations that are difficult to make to others, that they should agree on everything, and they are not. There is sometimes a challenge in interaction in developing policies in this area, that there are also different opinions within the different national minorities on how to do this. It probably also has some roots in history, where someone has been assimilated, and someone doesn't have it, and you have different stories with you, from gross discrimination to becoming a general owl's eye. This is the reason SV has written a separate comment in this setting. It is linked to the need for fair compensation and upliftment schemes, because there are many municipalities that do not. We have made proposals on several occasions in the Grand Duchy relating to these matters, but also related to the follow-up of those who have been subjected to abuse or not to remain in the protection of children, for example. There I see that the majority place greater emphasis on the local maritime administration than that people who have actually been exposed to this are going to get fair compensation. One compensation scheme related to the Roma population has been developed. We worked with it – a bit curious, maybe – almost simultaneously with the replacement of the North Sea divers. There was quite a difference at the level of compensation, I have to say, for those who might even have been lobotomized and sterilized by society knowingly and willfully. There are serious abuses many here have been subjected to. I want to repeat, and I'm going to do it until the Storting agrees, that we need compensation schemes that are such that all municipalities actually have to have it for these groups as well. Everyone now acknowledges that there has been serious discrimination. Not everyone has been exposed to it, but someone has, and so no one has received any uproar or compensation for it, because those compensation schemes do not exist, and because more emphasis is placed on the local maritime administration than on correcting the injustice. We're going to work on this because we're going to realize it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e937	I would first like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. It's good that we're going to say completely unanimous in the description and approach to this. Our national minorities are very different from each other, but all have in common that they are part of the large community in Norway, and at the same time they have a background and a cultural tradition they practice to a greater or lesser extent. Unfortunately, national minorities also share in the fact that they have all been abused through history, it is the systematized persecution of Jews and atrocities during World War II, the forced sterilisation of Roma and tattoos, bullying at school or a number of other injustices. Much of this is history, but bullying and harassment are unfortunately also happening today, and such events against a self or previous genealogy are always in consciousness anyway. The Jewish Assembly Hall in Norway still needs police protection. I am pleased that a recent version of the action plan against antisemitism came. I mention this because it must never be forgotten, and because it must be mentioned from this and other interlocutors as a vaccine against continued discrimination and injustice. I am pleased that there is a broad political outreach on the main descriptive objectives of the notification for minority policy. Those main objectives have been mentioned several times, and this supports the Christian People's Party wholeheartedly. It's actually obvious, but it still has to be established. The national minorities, together with the large colorful community, constitute what is Norway. A free and open democracy cannot be conform but is enriched by diversity. That we have our own big message and budget lines for action for our national minorities is not something we do for shame, but something that is valuable both for society as a whole, and because all citizens have the same right to be proud of who they are, to be safe and take care of their roots and their identity. The aim of the Single European Act is to demonstrate the development of policies towards national minorities. In the last 20 years, the government has outlined how it can help to strengthen their hope, culture and situation in Norway in the future. This is not a job we do once and for all. It must be periodically lifted in addition to working evenly. Women, forest fins, Romans, Roman people and Jews are national minorities in Norway, but they are also valuable individuals in the great Norwegian we.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e948	The message that Stortinget is handling today, I am pleased that there is a broad dissension about it in general. For our national minorities – women, Norwegian Finns, Romans, Jews, Roman people, tattooers and forest fins – it is essential to maintain and develop language and culture and preserve cultural memories. It's about both identity, history and the place of minorities in society. I am also concerned to find that through history, minorities have put their mark on the development of Norway. They have contributed in various ways to shaping the society we have today, and that is one of the reasons why we also have a minority policy and have committed ourselves through international agreements. A good minority policy is important for each minority, but also for maintaining Norway as a rich and diverse society. The purpose of the big picture is both to show policy developments and to outline what the government will do in the future to strengthen the language, culture and situation of national minorities in Norway. Dialogue with minority organisations is also important in the further work, and in the communication we have included many of the input we have received from organisations. We have also received valuable input from young representatives of minorities in the work on this communication. I am particularly concerned that the young voices will also be heard in the further development of the policy. The notification shows that there has been a positive trend in policy towards national minorities in the last 20 years. There has been a strong increase in the grant items of national minorities, and this has, among other things, been the case. contributed to the strong organisations of most minorities today. Significant funding has also been provided for museums, cultural heritage, newspaper publishing and language training in kindergartens, schools and universities. When Finnskogen's house in Grue Finnskog is finished, all minority groups will have their own museums or meeting places. In recent years, three new women's language centres have been established, and Romano Kher cultural and resource centres for Norwegian Roma move to the autumn into fixed new premises. The Government’s action plan against antisemitism continued from 2021. Even if a lot is done, there's also a lot left. It is a work that we must constantly do, thus contributing to tolerance, respect and recognition relating to the culture and identity of national minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e963	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e978	At the request of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: Work Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian Party 5 minutes, Environmental Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e987	As always in these rounds, I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. She was concerned that the EU has managed to maintain its climate ambitions despite the pandemic. Norway is an active partner in the transition that is now underway, she said, and it is good to hear. Our national challenge, to transform our own industry into green, at a time when the petroleum sector is going to become a less powerful engine, and our ambition to reconcile industrial construction and jobs with the development of climate solutions has the potential to blend perfectly into the EU's new green economy. This is an agenda that can be crucial for Norway in areas such as electrification, green shipping, CCS, hydrogen and sea wind. But it requires that we have tongues in our mouths right now, because in the extensive legislative work that is taking place in the EU, the devil is largely in the details. In June – and of course the Foreign Minister knows well – the concrete legislative changes to ensure that the target is achieved will come, and it may potentially have major consequences for our industry as well. For example, what happens? on the issue of climatosis? Norwegian Industry is not necessarily totally enthusiastic about that idea, and indicates that they will also maintain a system of CO 2 compensation and free allowances. If the EU chooses to maintain free allowances as part of the quota system, while introducing a carbon tax at the border, it will – not quite unjustly, I would add – weaken the legitimacy of the carbon tax vis-à-vis key trading partners outside the EU and may also cause problems in the WTO context. I should like to hear what the government actually thinks about these dilemmas, and what it means for how we position ourselves in Brussels towards the presentation of this legislative package. The taxonomy was also the subject of the debate on the previous presentation, and it is still a matter of concern. For example, do we want to do this? obtain a market for blue hydrogen from natural gas with CCS? These are issues that still need to be addressed through very comprehensive processes in the EU system, and I think it can be a lot to get involved in that work, including the Stortinge. through the contacts of the various parties in the European Parliament. Many are concerned about the ongoing negotiations with the United Kingdom. The Norwegian objectives for the negotiations were presented in July last year, and it was then emphasised that Norway, among other things. wish for full free trade in seafood, i.e. an improvement of the current EEA regime. We understand, of course, that it is limited to the extent to which information can be shared from an ongoing debate, we understand it, but it is clear that we note that the Foreign Minister said in the statement that Norway wants a solution that leads to a lower customs duty for important seafood products, i.e. not the formulation of full free trade. At least it would be nice to get a signal from the government on the direction this is going on, and whether it is that the Foreign Minister's choice of words now has to be interpreted to mean that achieving full free trade for seafood is no longer seen as a realistic outcome. Finally, a few words about the social pillar and the formation of wages. We have also followed the debate in the wake of the Commission's proposal for a directive on adequate minimum wages in Europe. On the substance, I perceive that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Government on issues relating to the role of the parties, the freedom of agreement and the social model on which our wage formation is based. The Minister for Foreign Affairs also said that neither the social partners nor the government want a directive that could interfere with wage formation, including weakening the role of the parties. We have seen that there is disagreement about how the Commission's proposal is to understand. There are several aspects that are unclear here, to say the least, also EEA relevance, but this is an area where it cannot miss. If EU legislation were to directly interfere with wage formation, there would be something fundamentally new and further risk the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Then we have noticed that the Minister of Labour has signed this letter, to which it has been referred in the statement. It is in itself good that a letter has been sent, but since this is a potentially very important question, the Storting should be given more insight into how active the government actually is: have we been content to send a letter, or are there any initiatives taken by the government to ensure that our views are reached in this area? The EEA Agreement is our main trade agreement. It is of great importance to the Norwegian economy, but the opening up of this home depends on its active and well-managed management, and I look forward to hearing the Foreign Minister's deepening on the issues I have raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1011	First, I must be allowed to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough account of important issues relating to Norway's relationship with Europe. Norway has chosen to follow the EU Common Vaccine Strategy, including for the acquisition of vaccines. This has proved to be a wise strategy. We see an ongoing conflict, dispute, between the EU and the United Kingdom, where both parties are actually victims of the situation that has arisen. Some in Norway have also suggested that Norway should have its own vaccine strategy, obtain vaccines on its own. The conflict between the United Kingdom and the EU is a reminder of how risky it would have been for small Norway to go alone. The alternative to EU cooperation as a common front is that 27 countries – plus 3 EFTA countries – should enter the market and try to obtain vaccines. Vaccination in the EU countries would probably have been more different than today, that the availability of vaccines had become different, and that the reopening of Europe would probably have taken place later. The problem in the world today is not too much cooperation, nor on the vaccine side. And as you know, protectionism has its side effect, also on medicine. The EU countries Poland and Hungary are witnesses to the creeping authoritarian coup. The free and independent position of the press is shattered by a lengthy and sophisticated process. Prime Minister Orbán in Hungary has succeeded; only a fraction of the country's media are free and independent. In Poland, unfortunately, legal certainty has been converted into rules for a small click in one batch. The Constitutional Court, the State Attorney's Office, the secret services and the police are made the subjects of one party, ironically enough the party called 'The Party of Law and Justice'. Unfortunately, it is sad to note that three decades of democratic development in Poland are experiencing steady setbacks. I noticed in the statement that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now quite stuck in the gap, to put it that way, by the fact that the parts of the EEA funds intended to go to NGOs, non-governmental organisations, in 15 EU countries, including Poland and Hungary, are now probably quite likely to be put on hold unless the management of these funds is done by organisations independent of the authorities. That's positive, because when you see the development of freedom of the press in Poland, it's sad. Liberal media are stamped as unpatriotic, the state broadcasting operates with propaganda, and independent media are purchased. The EEA Agreement is Norway’s main and largest agreement. In fact, after the withdrawal of the EU from the United Kingdom, 60 psts. Norway’s exports to the EU. This agreement has a fundamental impact on the Norwegian economy and on Norwegian welfare. We are a small economy, a small and very open economy, which is completely dependent on this agreement. Opponents of this agreement believe that an equal number of alternatives are found in a free trade agreement and in WTO legislation. This is not the case, because this agreement is a long way further, and it guarantees Norwegian companies access to a domestic market of about 450 million, to domestic conditions. I noticed that the representative from the Workers' Party called about the EEA Agreement. It is positive in these times when a cooperation party with the Workers' Party, which is in the process of making the Workers' Party's rank contrary to its conclusion, has a completely different view on this agreement. It is illusory to believe that conditions should be achieved by means of a free trade agreement that is better than that contained in this agreement. It is only to look at what the United Kingdom has achieved, and it is only to look at the negotiating power of the EFTA countries today with four countries, versus eight countries against twelve EU countries when this agreement was negotiated in due course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1030	It is first and foremost appropriate to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good account of EU and EEA issues. She addressed several important issues relating to the relationship between Norway and the EU, both cooperation on pandemic, democracy and the rule of law, cooperation on EU programmes and participation in the EU Agency, Schengen cooperation, working life and minimum wages – and work on climate-friendly investments. This shows the breadth of Norway’s cooperation with the EU. We are not only bound to the EU through the EEA Agreement, but also through a number of other forms of cooperation. The impression is that the link is getting closer and closer, even though we are never so much a member of the Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned, for example: that the government is working for Norwegian participation in the European Health Union. Linked to covid-19, there has been a lot and a lot of focus on vaccines. It's natural. When a pandemic hits, we're all vulnerable. The problem surrounding the AstraZeneca vaccine is well known, and its use is pending. In the course of the debate, several have suggested that Norwegian self-production of vaccines should be given priority in the future. There are thoughts worth dwelling on further, although Norway has good cooperation with the EU in the field of vaccines. With an ever-changing world, self-sufficiency in this area can also be useful in the back of the mind. At the same time as the close relationship between the EU and Norway, we see that one of our most important allies, the United Kingdom, is taking a long step away from the Union. Doomsday prophecies about crisis and collapse were shamed when a trade and cooperation agreement was agreed between the United Kingdom and the EU in 12 hours. It is a much less extensive and binding form of connection than our own EEA Agreement. It was exactly the ambition of the British Tory government, and it has actually delivered on it. It must be characterised as good political craftsmanship. When we start to see the outlines of how the United Kingdom agreement works in practice, we will see more clearly the strengths and weaknesses of the EEA Agreement. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement, every trailer box that goes from the EU to the United Kingdom – or vice versa – now meets a paper mill and a border bureaucracy that it did not do four months ago. Both exporters and importers face challenges related to rules of origin and product standards. This is what we are doing in Norway thanks to the EEA Agreement. It facilitates the everyday life of all the companies involved in trade with EU countries. For Norway’s economy, this is critical. For us who have a small population of 5 million people, it is a huge advantage to have free access to a market of 450 million others. Market access is precisely the strength of the EEA Agreement. The weakness of the EEA Agreement is that it has established supranational bodies which may make binding decisions for Norway. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, new relevant EU rules are incorporated into Norwegian law. In principle, we can make a reservation, but that has never happened. That's why this is just a theoretical possibility we never use. It has been claimed that by reserving, we are endangering the entire EEA Agreement. This aspect of the EEA Agreement weakens Norwegian sovereignty. The United Kingdom’s agreement with the EU appears to enhance its sovereignty. I have great expectations for cooperation between Norway and the United Kingdom after Brexit. Countries are bound by history, culture and common interests. The Minister for Foreign Affairs highlighted maritime transport, mutual recognition of professional qualifications and telecommunications as areas in which we can come up with particularly good arrangements. In the free trade area, good conditions are being created for seafood products and Norwegian agricultural interests. I'm going to move into the field of agriculture, and I'm recording that the president is from the Central Party. I'm still taking the chance. I am not so concerned that British products will compete with Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian oysters are world-class. More import of cheddar will not threaten this. Better access for seafood, including processed products, will provide more jobs in Coastal Norway. In conclusion, the word ‘cooperation’ is mentioned 44 times in the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. She clearly stresses that the EU will continue to be our main partner, even after the United Kingdom has left the EU. The EU is obviously a more important player than the United Kingdom, but I believe that it should now become more natural for us to seek cooperation with the United Kingdom – without necessarily having to go the way around the EU. There may be a win-win situation for both Norway and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1055	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough account of Norway's relationship with the EU. The parties note that the statement and the statement by the Right-wing Representative show that the Right-wing Party is unreservedly committed to the Union and that the Right-wing Party wishes to notify Norway into the EU. The centre party is committed to working well with Europe, but we believe that supranational governance across the EU is the wrong response to the challenges we face. The government has monopolised information on the choice of vaccine strategy. You have prided yourself on the European Union and put all the eggs in one basket. The Minister of Foreign Affairs claims that the EU Common Vaccine Strategy has given us flexibility. The center party thinks it's going to be a very one-sided production. The loyalty of the Government to the European Medicines Agency, the European Medicines Agency, has also prevented the Swedish Medicines Agency and the FHI from assessing the authorisation of other vaccines, as has been done by several of the EU’s own Member States, or from engaging in other veterinary cooperation. The bonds to the EU have taken away this flexibility. The centre party believes that there is now a need for an independent examination of the government’s choice of vaccine strategy. On the right, we believe that we should look at the EU even in future health crises. The center party believes it's an unwise approach, in the light of the pandemic. The last year has shown us that the nation state is an important framework for preparedness and crisis management. When the pandemic hit, the EU did not have emergency plans and was poorly equipped to meet what was coming. The Minister for Foreign Affairs explained that the government is preparing negotiations with the EU for a new period of EEA funding. The centre party has called for a critical review of this use of money and we believe that we need to reduce the amount of billions sent in aid to EU countries. This has been voted against by the Right. The central party expects the government to follow up on the majority of the Stortinget, which had the following comment in the vote on the proposal of the Central Party to cut Norway’s financial support to the EU: ‘The majority of the Committee is concerned about the significant growth of Norwegian EEA funds. [[...]] Although there is broad political agreement on the overall objectives of the funds, [[...]] The Minister of Foreign Affairs spent a lot of time drawing a negative picture of Britain’s leaving the EU – as an apparent argument for the EEA Agreement. It may seem that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that there are only two alternatives to the EEA — either full Norwegian EU membership, as right-wing wishes, or British agreement. The central party believes that this is not in Norway’s interest with such loyalty to the EU. We believe that today's form of association deprives Norway of political space for action and sovereignty in an unacceptable way, and we have therefore called for a thorough investigation of alternatives, i.e. trade agreements with the EU that do not weaken Norwegian sovereignty, as the EEA Agreement does. EU defence cooperation is growing. The EEA Agreement does not commit Norway to foreign policy cooperation with the EU. However, the Norwegian Government has chosen to closely link Norway to the EU Defence Agency, the Defence Fund and the Common Security and Defence Policy. The central party is in doubt that the EU's defence parallels will strengthen security in Europe. NATO has been the world's most successful defence alliance, and for Norway it is not good news if NATO is weakened as a result of France wanting an alliance where they are sitting in the driver's seat. The United States and the United Kingdom are Norway's most important allies in defence policy. We have a historically good cooperation with them, and none of them are members of the European Union. The centre batch is deeply concerned about increasing imports of food. Over the past few weeks we have seen a number of outbreaks of salmonella due to meat from Europe. Imports also increase the risk of introduction of salmonella or antibiotic-resistant bacteria into Norway, which is a serious threat to public health, animal health and food safety. The central party is now afraid that the government will grant quotas to the United Kingdom on agricultural products in a new free trade agreement, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Minister of Industry Iselin Nybø has been challenged on this, and she has not rejected the fact that there is a link between fish and agriculture in the negotiations. The central party believes that the government must stand up for Norwegian interests and protect Norwegian agriculture from EU and other EU liberalisation and competition, and believes that the Stortinget cannot approve an agreement challenging Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1079	The Minister for Foreign Affairs was in a lot and much in the statement last Thursday. On some themes she went in detail, and on others she was more buttony and cryptic. So I thought I would allow myself to quote from the part where the Foreign Minister spoke about one of the most important and most comprehensive EEA decisions we have had here on the Stortinget for a long time, namely the issue of the fourth rail package of the European Union. In order to conclude shortly that the Supreme Court has given its blessing to the government being able to penetrate through an eternity privatization of Norwegian railways, she talked about the benefits of the Directive. I quote briefly – it will please the Minister for Foreign Affairs that I repeat her words, but I do so anyway: ‘Relationship with, and participation in, EU agencies is relevant in several areas. [[...]] We have been able to contribute, inter alia: expertise in operating under severe climatic conditions into the European regulatory development in the technical and safety field. It is important for the government that Norwegian authorities continue to be able to participate in the work of the Railway Agency.’ With that, the Foreign Minister continues what has been the government's unfair line in our view by pretending that the fourth railway package is a small, almost technical matter. It's not like that. But I understand that the government does not want to talk about what is the most important thing about the package. Indeed, it is the EU's mandate to launch and privatise Norwegian railways. The government has then seen beyond the chaos of actors, divisions and foreign companies that now characterise the Norwegian railway system, the consequences of the government's own privatisation reform, and seen a golden opportunity to make this chaos permanent. Of all the unpopular reforms introduced by the government, perhaps the railway reform is the one that makes most people turn their thumbs down. In a 2018 Opinion study, a total of 60 pst responded. that they were opponents of the government’s foreign train company release. Only 15 pst. was in favour. In a survey of municipal government representatives, carried out by the Folkevaltbarometer on order from the Norwegian Railway Federation, the findings were even clearer. Nearly seven out of ten believe that public transport should be operated by the public, six out of ten believe that we get a worse rail on the market. I have sometimes called the EEA Agreement a right-wing subscription scheme, and this case just shows how the subscription works. A Norwegian Right-led Government stands for the privatisation of Norwegian railways. The EU is moving in and will center on the flawed and unpopular privatisation policy. This means, with the blessing of the Progress Party perhaps, giving up control over strategically important infrastructure to the EU. If it means that, it's better. So the Supreme Court has given an opinion on the transfer of sovereignty. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out in the statement, the Supreme Court has given its answer, namely that sovereignty can be transferred to an EU agency by a normal majority, subject to the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The consideration was historical. It is also discussed, including: because the Supreme Court stressed the long practice of the Grand Duchy in the transfer of sovereignty. To say that as jusprofessors Eirik Holmøyvik and Christoffer Conrad Eriksen: Stortinget's practice is according to the Constitution because it is Stortinget's practice. There is undoubtedly a decision that will be discussed much in the future. For all those who are concerned with democratic anchoring and sovereignty, it must be a cross of thought that one today does not have a constitution that gives clear limits to the renunciation of sovereignty. Major political changes should have democratic legitimacy. If the government is concerned about this, there is an opportunity to ensure the legitimacy of the privatisation policy of the government in terms of the railways. That's why I have two challenges today, the first for the government and the second for the government's support party: Will the government agree to secure this legitimacy by post-election delaying the treatment of the fourth railway package, will the parties of government allow voters to assess the government's railway policy before they make it valid for all the future through the railway package? And to the Progress Party: Will the Progress Party ensure that at least the voters can be heard before giving up control over Norwegian infrastructure to the EU? The two questions refer to a postponement of the treatment of the railway package after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1099	First of all, thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good account for a troubled time. People are more involved now than before in what is happening from day to day, and seeing the relationship from an EEA agreement to being called in to the vaccine, people are very closely following and are very satisfied with, so I want to start by thanking you for that. Cooperation is strong. It's an old wisdom word that's more topical than ever. In the last year and for a long time in the future, even after large parts of the population have been vaccinated against corona/covid-19, the pandemic will be on the agenda, and the fight against viruses and how we, together with other countries, will get on with it in order to achieve a normalised everyday life, will affect both the policies and the days ahead. It will also affect our preparedness thinking here in the country. It is clear that there is some desire that we should perhaps have purchased vaccines here and there and listened to impulses here and there, but it should have occurred that in our country we were driving with such impulse action and the kind of unqualified attitude. We have to have a long-term, predictable and stable channel because the pandemic can ride us for years. That's the fact. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed this strongly in his presentation last week. Norway is part of the EU Common Vaccine Strategy and acquires vaccines through EU acquisitions. We must be very happy about that. Agreements have been concluded with eight manufacturers and so far four have been approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). It goes without saying that such things must be done together. It is impossible for Norway to make such risk assessments and investments in development, production and acquisition of so many vaccine types on its own. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also recalled that being a rich country does not help much when the whole world is hunting for the same vaccines and exports are limited by various measures around it. It is a well-known matter that the government parties have different approaches to whether Norway is going to be a member of the EU, but as a representative of the party that answers no to that question, I have no problem finding that cooperation with the EU is useful and necessary for Norway. The EU exists, and with proper cooperation it is very useful for Norway in many areas of society. If we do not have that pragmatism and recognition at the bottom of our political activity, we do not serve the people constructively. I notice that the Center Party has a different approach, and I wonder what is most important for the Center Party sometimes, whether to use any occasion for your own election strategy or whether to serve the people. That's the leftover impression, put it on the head now in the pandemic management. I think people notice that. My party believes that Norway is best served with the link we have in the EEA Agreement. Sometimes I think the Central Party leaves the impression that it is almost strange that the EU exists, that they are opposed to the existence of the EU. It is a strange position to have in a democratic perspective and relatively arrogant towards peoples and national parliaments who are otherwise working together in Europe. In any case, there is another way to think about European policy. Europe has a great deal of common thought, political traditions and also democratic traditions. Unfortunately, we see that in some European countries there is a threat to a democratic mindset and to the principles of the functioning of the rule of law. It happens in Poland and Hungary. It may not be so surprising that it happens here, where you have a relatively young democratic form, after many years of Communist one-party rule. Healthy democracy does not come about by itself, and in many of the results we see today, reactions occur on the opposite side of the scale than when communism was. Nationalism and xenophobia as a social trend often arise in a vacuum where a democratic mindset has not moved to get its foothold. I am pleased that the Commission has shown this attention and that Norway shows its willingness to contribute. The EEA funds are part of the package ensuring Norwegian access to the internal market. The use of funds to defend and promote common values by supporting organisations and institutions working to promote the rule of law and respect for democracy and human rights is right and meaningful, and it wants the Christian People's Party to contribute to it. I myself have been able to join in and look at examples of that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1122	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for the presentation – at a time when European cooperation is perhaps more important than ever, with the challenges we face, where the main problems are in the climate and natural crisis, but also in the situation in which democratic Europe is being challenged from both China and Russia, and where there are also challenges in the EU countries and the democratic countries of Europe. It is precisely in that perspective – the main problems we face – that we must take on the basis of the European cooperation that we have. This is particularly true in climate and nature, and I very much appreciate the emphasis the Minister for Foreign Affairs put on the greening of the EU, a growth strategy, a cross-sectoral plan for a climate-neutral Europe in 2050. Now Norway actually has an even more ambitious requirement, which would go beyond climate-neutral if we were to reduce our emissions by 90-95 pst. by 2050. However, it is clear that it is crucial – for Norwegian businesses, to achieve the climate goals we are going to achieve, and for Europe to take a leading position – that we participate in this cooperation as closely as we can. We will adopt the climate plan for Norway by 2030. Fortunately, we have become a member of the entire climate policy of the EU, including in the non-quota sector. However, an issue that is underlined by the importance of this is the EU's forthcoming decision on their 2030 targets to be neutral, with 55 pst. reduction, or if it should be actual, by 60 pst. reduction, as requested by the European Parliament. I would at least hope that Norway will use the influence we have in order for the EU to land on an emission target and a clean emission cut by 2030, whether 55 or 60 pst. It is one of the most decisive decisions on that side, to be taken now. At the same time, as the representative Marianne Marthinsen says, this is our sovereign most important trade agreement, but as she also stresses, the opening is challenged. We also hear that in the other posts here in Stortinget. The Centre Party first stresses that the EEA funds are not to be used, but that we want to reduce the EEA funds that we contribute to the EU today. First, what would that lead to if we started to cut one-sidedly in these ways? It is clear that it has consequences in other areas as well as being what EEA funds are doing, it is contributing positively to development – both greener development and in culture, cultural memory protection and many other areas within the EU, and it gives us influence. A concrete example is in Poland, how many LHBT-free zones have been introduced by local authorities. Norway has been clear and said that we will stop the transfer of EEA funds to these local authorities. There is no doubt that this has been noticed and has made both that local authorities have changed their position and that there is an ongoing process in several places. We have an influence. The Central Party will be guided by EU defence and security policy. That would be completely wrong in the international situation we're in. The most serious thing, however, is that a thorough investigation of a trade agreement with the EU, that is to say, to go away from the whole EEA agreement. I want to ask a question, especially to the Workers' Party: Is such an investigation something you could accept? I think it's negative for Norwegian business itself. At all, starting to ask the question creates uncertainty, and you're on your way into a development we don't have any interest in. It is also underlined when the representative of the Audun Light Hill from the SV uses his whole contribution to counter the EU's fourth railway package, just as if this is a threat to the railway effort we see across Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1145	In his statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs raised the question of Stortinget's use of the Basic Law Section 26 to adopt the railway package IV by a simple majority because it is so-called a little intrusive. The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that the opinion of the Supreme Court provides a good basis for the Grand Duchy to now, by a minimum majority, decide that an EU agency will be able to decide on Norway and otherwise provide for the continued import of right-wing policy from the EU and privatisation as a principle for Norwegian railways for eternity. I do not believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has read the answer of the Supreme Court. She's been very careful about that. However, when she claims that the answer provides a good basis, it is incomprehensible, because the consideration does not consider whether such a decision – i.e. by a minimum majority – would be in line with the intentions of the Constitution. It assesses the practice, and since the practice of the majority of population has been contrary to the Basic Law for 25 years, it is all of a sudden OK. Then it's called constitutional customary law. In this way, it is only possible to adopt the liquidation of democracy and the transfer of powers to the EU bit by bit – one small intervention after another. This, of course, is deeply problematic. Are the legislators really going to make laws, and are we going to be okay if we break them as long as it happens systematically, on a massive scale and over long enough? One thing now is that the EEA Agreement erodes the Norwegian People's Government and also gives power to the EU that should lie in this Chamber. Another is that there is an agreement that also serves as a subscription to right-wing policy for the future. Putting the rail on the market will be mandatory with this package, and a major step that decides otherwise will end up breaking the EEA Agreement, even if a majority of the population wants a different policy. Our citizens have been sceptical about rail privatisation. Solid majority in repeated measurements means that the railway is to be operated by the Community. It's because people use the train in their everyday lives and are not in an office inside Oslo and pull up theories of competition from the desk drawer. Nor does anything indicate so far that Go-Ahead has created any better rail services in Norway. But this model wants the government and the Progress Party to spread to the rest of the Railway Norway, and through railway package IV it will be legalised as a principle, with the EU as its top authority. This is in the opposite direction — and it is interesting — by the country of rail privatisation, which is England, where they have now started renationalising the railways because they are unable to deliver. That the government in this situation wants to run on a railway package which introduces privatisation as a guiding principle and which gives Norwegian authority to yet another EU agency, I think it is difficult to understand, even for the government parties and the party's own voters. After the election, for the first time in very many years, there can be an EEA-critical majority in this room. That majority will work Red to say no to engulf our democracy even more through the EEA Agreement. We want to work to stop the import of right-wing policies and the transfer of powers to the EU and, above all, use the space of action that the Workers' Party is talking about in the EEA Agreement – in fact take it into account to say no to directives and say yes to step out of directives that prove harmful to Norwegian employment, Norwegian society and the Norwegian community. Finally, I hope that the government parties realise that they should not go in to rush through railway package IV in the Storting, that it will quickly appear both arrogant and undemocratic. I'm not surprised if they're trying. That is why I would also ask for a clear response from the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties on whether they will join us after the election, after our election, to go in to reverse the railway package IV and three out of it, if we step into it before the election. I would like to have a clear answer to that from the Labour Party and the other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1165	There are many different themes here, and since I've had the word for a long presentation, I didn't think to make a new, small presentation now, but rather try to answer some of the issues and issues that have arisen. On the issue of the so-called CO 2 border adjustment mechanism, as asked by the representative Marthinsen, Norway has been very clear in the positions we have already given to the EU – and we are now updating them – that we believe it must be WTO-compatible. We also believe that it should not affect Norwegian businesses. It is quite obvious that all the time we are first part of the EU's quota system, and secondly, the risk of carbon leakage is relatively small in this context. That's not what it's supposed to hit either. It is important for us to stress that we also talk a lot about hydrogen and blue hydrogen in this EU position paper, that Norway is both a clear producer and one that can contribute to the development of this system in trade with other systems. With regard to the social pillar, this is a topic discussed in the presentation, but also in the regular European committee meetings we have in Stortinget. There, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, as I mentioned in the statement, sent a letter, but nine other countries, including Sweden and Denmark, have also done so. We have also informed the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union that we share the views of Denmark and Sweden and the seven other countries, and it is a desire for a less binding approach than a directive. This is precisely because the situation is so different in different countries. The Commission has also given the government feedback that it should not be this kind of minimum wage schemes in countries that have collective agreements, and we believe, as the representative Marthinsen, together with the social partners that this is the right way to go. We want the wage formation we have in Norway, and we want people to be able to organize themselves. This is also the background for us to be critical of what the EU has come up with. Then there were also questions related to the free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. There we are, as I said, in a demanding phase – a final phase, of course, we hope. But at the same time, in this agreement, we have a lot of reason to balance. I also explained them in my statement. At the same time, it is important for us to consider this also as a comprehensive agreement which is actually about much more than fish and agriculture. That's what gets the most attention, but for us, it's important to ensure the business world wide, and that's exactly why we're spending time and resources on these negotiations. So to the representative Enger Mehl, I don't know if you're going to call it an honorary term, or what you're going to call it, saying that you're 'unreservedly devoted' to the Union. Well, from my point of view and that of the government, this is about how we can best care for Norwegian interests. We clearly believe that Norwegian interests are best served through the close and close cooperation we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement. Then there are a couple of parties in government that think we should become an EU member, there is one party that believes that the EEA Agreement is sufficient, but common to all parties is that we believe that we should have a close relationship with the EU because it serves our best interests. I think it is an interesting point in the context that when we talk about EU defence policy, for example, and in particular about the issue of links with PESCO and the issue of military mobility, the representative Enger Mehl believes that it is not good for Norway, because our closest ally, the United States, is not there. Well, irony is that the United States has also applied to the EU for military mobility as part of PESCO. They think it's positive, and we've expressed ourselves positive to it. Canada has done the same thing. Then there are also questions related to vaccines. I'm not going to go very deep into all aspects of it, there are questions that are better asked to the Minister of Health. But I think that is reason to remind you that today we are in a situation where neither Chinese nor Russian vaccines are authorised in the EU. It has to do with the fact that the Chinese have not asked for their vaccine to be approved and the Russians have not shared the data necessary for the possible authorisation of the vaccine. I don't think anyone would like to see us in a situation where we don't use approved vaccines in Norway. I also believe that what we have seen relates to delays and that we have a temporary stop in one of the vaccines, also gives us greater flexibility, because we can then pull on the other vaccines that we are also part of through purchases. Then I would just like to mention briefly that the issue of the European Health Union is something that comes up more and more strongly, precisely because the European Union clearly recognises that it was not ready to deal with a pandemic when it arrived. This means that health policy remains a national responsibility, but there is a desire for closer coordination in some areas. In particular, it concerns a health preparedness package, with regard to the EU cancer plan, and with regard to the EU drug strategy. I think it is positive that the EU cooperates more closely here, and that we also have an opportunity to participate in that cooperation. I didn't mean to talk very much about the fourth railway package, but I can't quite let it go when up to several speakers have spent relatively much time on it. Now I notice that the representative Lysbakken, who asked a specific question and had a challenge, is no longer present in the room, but I am still going to answer his question – I am absolutely sure that the answer will flow. The representative Lightbakken was concerned that the voters had to decide on this, both the railway reform, on which the representative does not agree, and the fourth railway package. The interesting thing is that the rail reform was presented in 2015. This means that the voters took a stand on it in 2017, and the voters re-elected the government that had submitted the rail reform. I have to say, in that slightly more serious corner, that I think it is remarkable to listen to SV and Red and how they refer to the decision in the Supreme Court. This is a consideration Supreme Court gave, for the first time since 1945, on the basis that especially SV and Red would have a reference to the Stortinget, where they probably hoped for a different result. It's not like you can first ask for a statement and think that the Supreme Court is the right place to ask for that statement, and then when you're dissatisfied with the result, you're going to attack the opinion. I think it's a rather special way of dealing with the Supreme Court, and I think that some of the statements that have come after, also have been similar special. No to the EU called it a major and important saying when it became a majority to ask the Supreme Court for this consideration. At the same time, there was a quite clear attack on the integrity of the judges as the result turned out not to be what you wanted. I will not, President, be unparliamentary in my use of language, but I would nevertheless like to be quoted in comment fields. No to the EU wrote on social media that the Supreme Court ‘does not, unfortunately, dare to challenge the Storting’. That means, in principle, attacking the integrity of the Supreme Court, which I assumed all parties in this room and all organisations were also concerned about. But in the comment area there are actually many who go even further, and here, President, I will also quote – and these are not my expressions: the members of the Supreme Court are characterised as a bunch of eels. First of all, I think it's a very special way of dealing with a petition from the Supreme Court that Stortinget has asked for, and I think it's a very special way of dealing with that Supreme Court comes up with a result that you don't like. I also think that is a very special way of dealing with the principle of power distribution. I do not suspect anyone in this Chamber to believe what I am now quoting, but I think it is worth noting that in these debates on Europe we are talking a lot about democracy, about the rule of law, about the independence of the courts, about the importance of having precisely these independent courts. So when Stortinget then asks our Supreme Court to consider a constitutional issue, there are several representatives who believe that it cannot be justified, because you seem to disagree with the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1203	The Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned with improving military cooperation in Europe. She talked about strengthening cooperation, that it was positive, and both Canada and the United States are supporting it. One of the most important areas of cooperation is the defence industry. Norway has the most stringent export legislation across the EU. This means that our defence industry will be competing, among other things. because of this cooperation. We are not able to compete and get more and more feedback that although we have the best technology, also on dual-use technology, as it is called, we lose competition because through our export regulations we do not accept exports to countries where there is war or war threatens, and that means that the other countries do not care. We're going to care. So the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take an initiative so that we can have harmonised export legislation, i.e. liberalise our export legislation so that we have a corresponding export code and the same conditions of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1208	Export control legislation is national decisions, so the EU does not have common legislation, but there are more countries in the EU that have more liberal legislation than we have. We — and all governments have done so since 1959 — relate to the decision taken by the Stortinget in 1959, which lays down the framework for which countries you can export, and also what you can export, to a certain extent. Norway has since joined, or incorporated, the Defence Material Directive. Many EU countries have not. From our point of view, it was intended as a way both to have greater access to the European market and to have some of the same driving rules for it, without prejudice to the export control legislation as such – it is more about industrial cooperation, among other things. It is now also agreed – and the government is proposing – that the European Defence Fund should be joined. We also believe that this is an important contribution to improving the framework conditions for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1215	In that case, I believe that no initiative will be taken to liberalize it, but there are other reasons why we should have other organisations to join, and another type of cooperation, which does not specifically help the defence industry. I want to focus a little on the climate cooperation and the emissions of CO 2, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very concerned about. China now has 28 pst. of the global emissions of CO 2 and have ambitions to emit much more, 450 pst. increase is the last number I saw. Norway aims to halve its CO 2 emissions by 2030. My question and my challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether she knows and can tell me how much CO 2 emissions Norway has in global terms, as a percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1234	No, I do not have an overview of that, unfortunately, and I would suggest that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment is the right one to respond to that. I'm not going to go into assessments of it, because I don't know. But I'd like to answer that question Tybring-Gjedde asked before that, about liberalizing. After all, we have major debates on export control at least once a year – I would say once a year – when the government presents its annual report on the export of defence equipment the year before. I have not registered – from any party, really – any suggestion that we should depart from the 1959 Decision. If there were to be a majority for that on Stortinget, there would be a change in Norwegian policy in that case. I believe it is important that we have strict export control legislation, that we have clear national control over the exports we make of defence material, and that we make our own assessments, but of course we cooperate, among other things. with the EU in order to have a good record of that export control legislation and contribute to control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1243	I can inform the Foreign Minister that it is 0.5 pst. of global emissions, and we have ambitions to go down to 0.25 pst. of the global emissions, which will cost us several hundred billion dollars. It is completely pointless with the support of the Government and the Grand Duchy, but it is another matter. It is such that a person exports defence equipment to countries because they are to be deterred. NATO countries also have a lot of defence equipment, defence systems, which are not for use but for deterrence, so they don't use it. That's the whole point of the defence industry. Other countries are told that where there is war or war threatens, we are not going to export there, so they are not allowed to use deterrence as an argument for buying defence equipment. The Progress Party supports the liberalisation of the 1959 Decision, and we have done so all the way. Of course, you can represent it as if we don't – right doesn't – the Progress Party actually does. We hope now that one will take the initiative so that we can be in line with the EU countries, so that we do not face a particular competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1250	However, it is not a common EU export control legislation. It's national, in each country. This means that some countries have liberal legislation, others have strict legislation. We who are not a member of the European Union are on the strict side, and that is because there is a full consensus in the Stortinget. I have no intention of calling for the liberalisation of Norwegian legislation, precisely because the Stortinget has so clearly established, in 1959 and in the years after, that we should have the strict framework we have for exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1255	The size has not been dealt with for so long since a proposal from the Central Party to base a reduction in the EEA funds when the government is going to enter into new negotiations. This is because we believe that the system has gone completely out of proportion, become too expensive, and that you can ask questions about the relationship between the billions used, for example. for assistance in Poland or Hungary and the purpose of the scheme, which is social economic cohesion in Europe. Not long ago, the Minister of Foreign Affairs also confirmed in a reply to written questions that the scheme is voluntary and a temporary scheme. So she said in the statement that they are preparing for new negotiations, but that a central prerequisite for a new period must be to put in place even more robust mechanisms to maintain the values that underpin the cooperation. My question is then: is it that this is interpreted as opening up a new period of EEA funding at all, and what requirements must be in place for it to become one?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1262	If I don't remember correctly, I think we've discussed this at a few of the meetings of the European Committee in Stortinget once we've discussed the way to a possible new period. After each period, both the EU and Norway have to take stock of the continuing need for this type of drug. It is quite clear that it is still there, and then the question is the device of the means – we are currently spending a lot of money on climate and nutrition cooperation, on research and, in particular, on civil society, which may be the big ones, and which contributes to social and economic development and cohesion in Europe. As we look at it now, we believe it is positive that the European Union is tightening up, among other things. on legal mechanisms, and wishes as much as possible to be part of the conditions under which EEA funds may be disbursed. That's why I said what I said in the statement, that we want to look at the evolution that has been, and see what we do with it to strengthen our own arrangements for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1267	Norway is in the final phase of negotiations on trade agreements with the United Kingdom. In the media, we can read that customs-free quotas on fish and agriculture are themes, which are unhighlighted. The party of the centre requires that the government does not grant any concessions in the agricultural field. Imports from the EU are all so great through the Article 19 negotiations that it weakens our national production of food and therefore also our food security. The goal of this hall, at least in fine speech, is that we should have more local and short-range food, and I have long anticipated that the Council of State Vervik Bollestad would decide on behalf of the government that it is not appropriate to increase the local tariff-free quotas on agricultural products to Norway. We had a trade deficit with the EU of 44 billion. in 2020 for agricultural products. Can the Foreign Minister state that it is not appropriate to increase the duty-free quotas for agricultural products to Norway in addition to the EU, including the United Kingdom, before Brexit?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1275	Now the representative is in an area that falls under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Industry, she is the one who is conducting the negotiations on the Free Trade Agreement. But as I said in the statement, and I would like to repeat it very much, we are naturally seeking to achieve the best possible conditions for Norwegian maritime food exports, while protecting Norwegian agriculture. That is the balance we always have to make in these kinds of negotiations. Now, of course, that's true. As I said in the reply to the representative Marthinsen, this is a contract negotiation that is more than fish and agriculture, although that is what gets the most attention. This is about ensuring stable and good framework conditions for Norwegian business in the United Kingdom, and that we also get good investment and good British business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1280	In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented a proposal for a directive from the European Commission on minimum pay. Such a directive would be a clear violation of the Norwegian model and an incentive to an organised working life. There is probably no EEA relevance in the Directive, but there is still a risk that it will be. If there is an EEA relevance in the Directive, will the government oppose the implementation of a minimum wage directive in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1285	I think it's important to start that discussion at the right end. Right now we are there that we do not yet fully know what the directive is going to look like. As I mentioned in my answer, there are now several countries, including Sweden and Denmark, which, in exactly the same way as Norway, have mentioned that we who have collective wage formation, we who have a high degree of organisation, will keep it, and the Commission has actually met it in many ways. The aim here is to ensure a viable minimum wage and living conditions for those who are the lowest paid in Europe and who have poor framework conditions. This does not mean that this must be introduced in the same way for countries where collective bargaining is held, and where there is also a high level of organisation. Here I feel that Stortinget is so unanimous in this, and the social partners believe the same thing. That is why our approach has been, first of all, to try to influence the EU in our direction. If it were to become a directive, which is not sure yet, then we have to assess the EEA relevance, and then we have to come back to what the Norwegian position on it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1290	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1295	First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for including in her presentation the democratic decline in Europe. She put the discussion about this where it should be. The debate on EEA funds in Norway needs to be about how they are best used to get the most democracy and the rule of law for money, to put it correctly. No one believes that the Norwegian contribution should grow uncritically just to grow. Everyone believes that the contribution should be required. It's even done all the way. Sometimes this is discussed in a discourse that later, as if Norway were paying indiscriminately to the EU. That's not true. If the story of Norwegian EEA funds had been that this money goes to diplomatic lunches in Brussels and inspiring autocrats in Budapest and Warsaw, everyone would be against it. It is easy to make rhetorical points as to why Norway sponsors museum experiences in Poland. It takes a lot longer to tell about a museum of Polish Jews' history, how important it is to tell this story and make sure that Norwegian funds go to educational facilities for young people to increase understanding, remember history, and be a contribution to never happening again. EEA funds are intended to support civil society and social cohesion. Together with Hungary, Poland is the country that is the foremost example of democracies in decline. In both countries, the rule of law and civil rights are constantly being built up. It is our values, our human rights and our rule of law that are also attacked when they are attacked in Hungary and Poland. That's why it's our duty and our responsibility to do something about it, especially when it works. Norwegian money has made an active contribution to putting pressure on change, among other things. in Hungary in 2014. The new agreement with Hungary has a clear reference to the EU rule of law mechanism and requires an agreement on the management of funds to go to civil society. Getting it into negotiations with a state that has stormed the offices of civil organisations because they have received support from Norway is a trick. The EU has been working for years to find out how to find effective pressure on Hungary and Poland. Meanwhile, Norway has contributed constructively to stopping or at least slowing down the democratic decline taking place in Europe. Let us be honest: there is no 'democratic backsliding' going on. These countries are not slipping away from democracy as a form of government, they are jumping, and then we have to hold on to the means we have to try to stop them. I invited the Minister of Foreign Affairs to discuss the use of instruments in a written question not long ago, asking how the Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that Norway's contribution can be used most effectively for the rescue of democracy, civil society and the rule of law in Poland. I am aware that the government is using both dialogue and international pressure to influence this field, but now the situation is so serious and acute that new proposals for instrument use are coming all the time. I am not concerned about being for or against a single instrument. I am concerned about opening up a specific and open discussion on which instruments could be the best. A flat cut in EEA funds may cause the organisations working to preserve the rule of law to be hit, and the money will not work as intended. At the same time, freezing of EEA funds to specific projects in the justice sector can help put pressure on developments that are worrying throughout Europe. The answer was very surprising. It was almost so that I did not recognize the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It said, ‘We cannot, however, react with suspension of EEA funds to all undesirable political developments or decisions.’ Further, the answer says: ‘There must be a clear and clear link to direct negative effects on programmes and projects we fund.’ It also says: ‘If there is a risk of breach of contract or rule, this will have consequences.’ It is brilliant, but it is exactly the consequences, where they should be, and any negative effects on the programmes I want to discuss. Poland is now becoming a law-free zone. We need to discuss the use of instruments. I'm going to send that question once more to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and hope she takes the time to respond further, so that we can have a good discussion about how the EEA funds work best – whether they exist or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1314	The representative of the Central Party, Emilie Enger Mehl, requested an in-depth investigation into the option to the EEA, not just membership and Britain’s agreement to choose between. There's no more thorough investigation than studying the British's agreement, because the best thing about the British's agreement is that it shows us the difference between what we have in the EEA and what we're going to get with a trade agreement. I had expected those who cheer on the brexit to use this debate to show the benefits they believe the British now have in relation to us, but the Moxnes and Light Hill chose the fourth railway package. The EEA Agreement, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, is much more than a trade agreement, but for Norwegian economy and exports, it is most important as a trade agreement, and then we can compare with the British new agreement. There is no single example of British business getting better and easier market access to the new agreement than they had as EU members – not one! On the contrary, they still do not properly release customs duties and quota restrictions, provided that they adhere to the standards of the internal market, so that the freedom to lay down their own rules and standards, which should be so important, is quite illusory. If those standards go down, it'll come down with a price. But what the British export industry experiences is looting, hefty and costs on the border crossings. In particular, it is problematic for fish and food, and salmon exports have almost stopped altogether. Exporters to the retail market in EU countries are about to give up. What is the council they get from the government? Yes, set up a distribution company in an EU country! It's a little bit of a certificate of your own agreement. Service exporters have even worse conditions. Popartists and artists face problems with visa requirements – in each country they have to tour. The free movement we enjoy in an internal market has its advantages, including for cultural workers. British agriculture is hit hard by the new immigration policy. Do they get help from the east to spring and harvest? That's a question. Norwegian agriculture is struggling with the corona, becoming a permanent headache for British farmers. Now the government negotiates with the UK a trade agreement to replace the EEA. The British have a lot of beef and cheese they'll get sold. Agriculture is afraid that the government will open too large quotas to reduce customs duties on processed seafood. We have heard the concern also here in the Chamber today. Do farmers – and the Senterpartiet – now understand how well the EEA Agreement protects Norwegian agriculture? When we negotiate with the EU a little bit more cheese and a little more hortnesia, we can do this without being in the cross-press that the government is now doing in negotiations with the British. It is time for Norwegian farmers to call about the EEA Agreement and ask their supporters to cancel the fight against the EEA. The EEA Agreement is the best trade agreement we can have with the EU. It ensures export industries full market access without plundering, indebtedness and costs at borders. It provides security and rights because Norwegian companies compete within a common regulatory framework, and it protects agriculture from much more open free trade. Anyone who is engaged in assessing the EEA Agreement against the alternatives may start by studying NUPI’s analysis of the EEA and the options undertaken on behalf of the maritime food industry, one of our most important export industries, and where our European neighbours are the most important market. The analysis is crystal clear: there is only one alternative that is even better than the EEA, and that is membership. The EEA Agreement is important for export and economics, but also for you and me. It confers rights on the Nordics in our neighbouring European countries, the right to seek work, health care when working, studying or vacationing there, access to joint education programmes such as Erasmus or research programmes such as Horizon 2020. It was a pleasure to register the government's proposals today on participation in these and several other programmes. All of this is British, British youth, now excluded, and so far it is not possible to get an eye on the gain the most eager British suggested the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1333	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1338	When I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the increase in duty-free imports of food into Norway, I did not receive any particularly reassuring answers. Now I know that it is the Minister of Industry who has sat in negotiations, but I also have eight years in government and know a lot about the cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its similar ministers. That answer was elusive and, as I said, not reassuring. There are quotas for both agriculture and fish. In the case of the agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom, the Government has admitted that: ‘The agreement provides proper free access to the market for seafood, but it links access to resources and access to the market, which would not be in our interest.’ Nor is it in our interest to link fish and agriculture more than what we already do in the EEA Agreement. There's also the pressure. But is it not such a connection that fishing allowances are allocated to the EU by the government? The United Kingdom has not allocated itself fishing quotas in Norwegian waters, but the EU has done so. They have allocated themselves a cod quota in the Svalbard fishing zone that goes far beyond what Norway has laid down in the regulation. It's totally unacceptable and a violation of Norway's dishes. They've allocated allowances – sorry, I'm going to stick to the script so I can't trace it. The EU has allocated allowances outside Svalbard, which they do not have the right to do. My question is, what does the government do about it? They protest for all the world, are they in the process, or are they doing something about it? The glamour that one sees, both when it comes to harsh rumors that one connects food – i.e. agricultural products and customs freedom there – and fish, which the media write a lot about for the time being, and that one does not take a spec with the EU and gets in place cleanliness when it comes to fishing, it shows a weak government. It shows a government that is going after the EU, which wants to enter absolutely all the forums that the EU has, which do not have the only counter-representation to anything that comes from Brussels and uses the EEA Agreement to make us close members. It is shameful, and it does not defend the Norwegian 'no' to the EU that the Norwegian people gave. This government has put us at a crossroads into the EU in almost all areas, even defence. This cannot continue, so we need a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1354	I have listened with interest to the debate on the description by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the consideration now given by the Supreme Court in the case of the fourth railway package. That's exactly what it's all about – it's a notion. It is not the case that it is the Supreme Court that is to deal with the question of whether Norway should join the fourth railway package or not. That's the big thing to do. Both I and several others from the Senterpartie clearly took part in the debate when it was a question of getting a opinion from the Supreme Court. It gave the Storting its consent to, because a precisely wanted a consideration, an assessment of the questions raised in the fourth railway package, from the Supreme Court. From what the minister now says, it is hopefully also such that the government will go in and read that assessment carefully, for that as the Supreme Court among others. The conclusion is that the waiver of sovereignty made through that railway package is more extensive than the government has laid down in its correspondence with the Stortinget. Among other things, the Minister for Transport has argued that there is no transfer of authority to the European Commission. On the other hand, the Supreme Court says that, in that case, it may be that the EU adopts legislation which will enter into force for Norway before it is included in the EEA Agreement. Furthermore, the government has also argued that we can use a so-called stop button from Norway on security issues, including issues dealt with by the European Railway Agency and the arbitration panel. It concludes that such a practice by the Norwegian side is likely to be considered unfair under EEA legislation. On several points, the Supreme Court concludes that what we are facing goes beyond what the government has presented to the Stortinget, so I expect the government to go through this investigation from the Supreme Court and look at the material aspects of the fourth railway package. So it is to the seventh and last Stortinget, on the basis of a political assessment, that will decide whether to submit to a system in which to give EU powers in key areas related to Norwegian railway safety and related to the organisation of Norwegian railways. Finally, I had hoped that in the course of the debate, what is Norway's position now had become clearer in view of a new round of EEA negotiations on quota. So we're facing an EU that's been smaller since the last time. The United Kingdom has expired. One thing is that we should have a burden-sharing between Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, but the special Norwegian quota at the top should at least be removed through new rounds of negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1367	I would like to return to this with a minimum wage, because in some European countries minimum wages can represent a kind of floor, there will be a great danger that in Norway it will represent a wage cap, because we have had good ways of negotiating tariff agreements that have been made in general. As far as I know, the Commission has said that the proposal for an EEA Directive is not EEA-relevant. Nevertheless, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement: ‘We are now carrying out a thorough assessment of the EEA relevance of the proposal.’ Then my question is, why spend more time on it, if it is not marked as relevant to the EEA Agreement? I think the government should take the time to say that one rejects the proposal completely, and that it should not be applied in Norway. If it is suggested that it be applied in Norway, I really hope that the government refuses to introduce this, because there will be a clear violation of the Norwegian model, with the incentive to organize. It's worth reminding from this pulpit that both LO and NHO are against this. I have registered that representatives from the government, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the former Minister of Labour, have expressed themselves in a way that I am currently delighted, but one should be aware that the most important thing is not what the Commissioners and the Commission say and say when they present their policy, but what is stated in the directive. We should be aware that this proposal comes in the light of the fact that trade unions across Europe are under strong pressure, that there is falling participation, and that there is a weak right to negotiate in many countries. Some of the finest things about Norway can be thanked for the trade union movement. We have been a country that has had quite little differences between people, and quite high trust in society. We've had a safe work life and good pensions to fall back on. All this is worth taking care of, and then it is absolutely necessary to reject this kind of proposal that will be involved and break up around what has been one of the most important building blocks for Norway and the Norwegian model. We've got our insurance sleep, free and vacation thanks to the trade union movement. It is worth taking care of, and then one has to say no to this kind of EU proposal, which will be involved and weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1380	I do not want to miss the opportunity to interrupt the Foreign Minister a little more about the negotiations on agreement with the United Kingdom, which she presented in the statement. Although the European Minister for Foreign Affairs, Aspaker, had, as an expression of ambition in the autumn of 2016, to have an agreement at least as good as the EEA with the British, the Foreign Minister may have to realize today that it was optimistic, as there is probably no idea that we are going to go into union with the British. Norwegian export companies must also bear the consequences of the British leaving the internal market. I assume that the conditions we agree with the British on are unlikely to differ significantly from those contained in the agreement between the United Kingdom and the EU, with the exception of free trade in agricultural products and fish. What would be interesting is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs can say anything if we want to make the same demands on the British that the EU has made on maintaining standards in the fields of health, the environment, consumer protection, labour rights, etc. What monitoring will Norway provide to ensure that this is actually followed up, and what reactions will the agreement allow for if the UK does not comply with the agreement in this area? Here we know that what is at stake in terms of the European Union is customs freedom and quota freedom. The Agreement between the EU and the United Kingdom also provides for a number of committees to ensure the maintenance and functioning of the Agreement, and it should also be a Parliamentary Assembly as we know it from the EEA Agreement. Is this also relevant for Norway to try to reach out to the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1392	Finally, our relationship with the internal market and the principle of equal rules and standards in the EEA set some limits on the free trade agreement negotiations with the United Kingdom. We cannot undermine the obligations we have through the EEA in an agreement with the United Kingdom. This applies, for example: standards and product requirements. It is also the case that some arrangements have been established between the EU and the United Kingdom for both technical barriers to trade and veterinary rules. It is also important for us, because we have as a horizontal priority when implementing these negotiations, to work to ensure that Norwegian exports do not have less access to the UK market than the EU has through the agreement. With regard to the parliamentary dimension, this is something that exists where there is an EFTA Free Trade Agreement. What has at least been the British response so far is that there is little interest in it from their side in this context, and that is not exactly the type of agreement either. That is why there has been nothing on the agenda other than this exploratory phase. So there's a lot to say, and I really agree with everything that Erik Faret Zechariah says about the minimum wage, but the reality is that when the Commission notices with EEA relevance, it's often just indicative, and that's not always true. That's exactly why we're using resources to check out the EEA relevance. We know very well that there is a great deal of disagreement in the EU about this directive and, as I said, nine countries are now in favour of a weaker legal relationship than a directive, so it is still uncertain what the result is, and that is precisely why we continue to influence in line with Norwegian interests. There is a lot I would like to say in one minute that I have left, but I say a few words about the issue of EU quota allocation to Navarsette. I was crystal clear in my statement that it is not acceptable, and what Norway is doing is bringing up a vessel and arresting them if they fish over the quota we have allocated to the EU. So I think that Liv Signe Navarsette might stick to the script, as she said, because there was a lot at the end there. The claim that the EU allocates itself to quotas is a weak government that floats after the EU – then I dare not remember that the last EU did so was in 2011. So it wasn't this government that put power. It was another government, of which the representative Navarsete himself was part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1403	I take the chance of going to the pulpit without a script again, but now I'm at least going to remember snowscrapers. That is what was one point in the past, because when the EU had granted a Latvian fishing company owned by Russian economic interests snow crab quotas, security policy experts have said that it could weaken Norway's sovereignty over Svalbard and the Svalbard Treaty. It might be interesting to say to the right state council assessment of it. We know that at several times there have been attempts to engage in the sovereignty of Norway on Svalbard. There are many and great interests attached to Svalbard. These are major economic interests, but they are also major political interests. The interest in the Arctic has been much greater in recent times. As a small country with great interests in the north, this is important for Norway, and it is important that the runglan and the seabed are followed. Then you get to the second question you could get the answer: what does Norway do? Yes, one brings up quotas, and it might be tough enough when the Coast Guard and others who are going to do the job don't have helicopters. But I guess we'll get back to that in another case. As long as the government hasn't equipped them with what they need, it can be a pretty tough job in all kinds of weather and wind outside Svalbard. But the most important question precisely in this context is: What can this lead to by weight sovereignty? Does it have security implications? And what does the government do beyond bringing up those who have taken too much quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1410	I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not use speaking time at all now to comment on the elements of the legal opinion of the Supreme Court that indicate that there is a more comprehensive waiver of sovereignty than the government has laid down. I would rather ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to use the speaking time of the Stortinge Chair to comment on it instead of referring to what is in some comment fields on Facebook. It is of less importance for the treatment of the Greatness than what is actually the material content of the legal consideration in those areas. To what the Minister for Foreign Affairs commented on instead, and to which she has experienced support linked, namely what kind of paragraphs in the Constitution one should address the issue of railway package IV after: I would like to remind you that there has also been a significant criticism of the Supreme Court in that area – not only in comment fields on Facebook, but also from law professors, among others. Holmøyvik and Eriksen, as I am aware, have no views on either the EU Agreement or the EEA Agreement, but have a professional starting point for their comments on the content of the Court of Justice. They refer to it as being methodically weak, materially deficient and containing perceptive claims. The essence is that the Supreme Court only assumes that the Stortinge has applied a practice in which the Stortinget can decide by a normal majority whether to use § 26, second paragraph, § 115 or to change the Constitution. Then you weaken, or erode, the entire minority protection that is in the Constitution, through it. It is a very important discussion, which the Storting must also take when dealing with the matter. Finally, I cannot stop commenting on the representative Hansen a little bit. He comments on the kind of experience we have with alternatives to the EEA Agreement, and he drew up Brexit and Britain’s agreement with the EU. On the issue of market access, it is certainly the case that, through its agreement with the EU, the UK has ensured full market access for all products to the EU — including further processed fish products, which Norway does not have through the EEA Agreement — as well as the withdrawal of national action spaces in key areas. What is important in the context of an analysis of alternatives to the EEA Agreement is to look at all the different countries that conclude agreements with the EU. Since Norway concluded the EEA Agreement, it is not a single country in the world that has opted for the EEA Agreement, nor has the EU required it once agreements have been concluded with a number of countries. Only in the last five years has there been between 15 and 20 new agreements. That's exactly what you need through an investigation of alternatives, and I also thought that the Workers' Party was gradually more positive, but it's clear that the representative Hansen is not on those thoughts for the time being.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1421	I notice that the theme of the Supreme Court's consideration is a very delicate theme for some parties in the hall. I actually think it's a point to quote the comment fields and quote the statements that have come from some, because I think it shows a lack of respect for the Supreme Court. I believe it also clearly shows that the opinion of the Supreme Court would probably have been based without any further assessments if the result had been the opposite. So this is a notion that comes from a unanimous Supreme Court. You may disagree with the content of it, but it is the Grandfather who has asked for it, and the Supreme Court assumes that it is the Grandfather who has to make these decisions, and can take these decisions under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The discussion on the fourth railway package shall continue. My point in the statement was just to say that now, as the opinion Stortinget asked, is given, the basis is also there for the Stortinget to make its decision. So the question of snow crabs, which is also an interesting question. There, of course, I also assume that the representative Navarsete has been very closely involved in what has been legal proceedings. The EU has licensed vessels to some countries to catch snow crabs at Svalbard. Of course, it is forbidden; only Norway has the opportunity to do so. It has also been established by the Supreme Court so late as in February 2019 that Norway can punish countries and shipping companies that catch snow crabs illegally, because that is what it is: it is illegal. We have, of course, reacted to this, but we have also had legal proceedings to establish the principle that it is Norway and not the EU that can licence the capture of snow crabs in the Svalbard fishing zone. It is also important to stress that the same principle, namely to arrest vessels, applies to allowances that are above Norway’s allocation to the EU. We also gave a quota to the United Kingdom this time, although this is kind of swirling on the head now that the United Kingdom has left the EU. But we did it anyway. It is important to stress that in these contexts the quota rate is the normal one, so if the EU wants to catch snow crabs, it is necessary to exchange quotas in other areas that can be caught by Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1434	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1439	The representative Gegelsvik pointed out that none of the other between 60 and 70 countries with which the EU has a trade agreement have requested an EEA agreement. The representative of Gülsvik knows the background to the EEA Agreement very well. Six EFTA countries and twelve EU countries were each each other’s largest trading partners. How was it to be handled when the internal market was developed as we have seen it? The answer to the question is that there are no other countries that have had 75 pst. of its exports to the Union market. That is the explanation that no one has asked for it. Those who have wanted to participate in European integration have, of course, wanted membership, and not what we have: a non-voting membership. That's the explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1444	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1449	I think there is reason for the representative Hansen, although he is a cross-border member of both the EU and the EEA Agreement, to reflect little on the fact that among all the countries in the world that have entered into trade cooperation with the EU after Norway entered into the EEA Agreement at the beginning of the 1990s, it is not a single country that has believed that the EEA framework will be the best framework for such cooperation. The European Union has not asked for it either. For example, a country that is an EFTA partner with us, Switzerland, said no to the EEA agreement in a referendum and chose other alternatives. Canada, Japan and several other countries have done the same. So to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to the point: the Central Party invites the government to a discussion of the material content of the Supreme Court's consideration, where we just point out that the Supreme Court in several areas is right with the government's understanding of the extent of the waiver of sovereignty, and we expect the government to follow it up in the extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1456	I have to say that there is a bit of a cold downside on my back when I hear the representative Gælsvik's ringing act for the Supreme Court. As stated in the law, the highest right. We have one Supreme Court. Then we can have many private-practicing lawyers of various kinds who may have views on the opinion of the Supreme Court, but it's the sovereign. In our system of justice, there's no jurisdiction over the Supreme Court. The principle of power distribution is so central to our parliamentary democracy. This hall gives you laws. It's the courts that judge and give their views on what the Great One has asked for. When it doesn't fall into good political soil at the Center Party, you run on. It seems like you've crossed a line. I would recommend the book as a tentative Gro Harlem Brundtland's interest in the policy: Johs. Andenæs’ ‘The Constitution of Norway’. The representative Geulsvik should read it and perhaps correct it after what he is observing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1461	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1478	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1485	Then I will present the matter on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Liadal. Today, we are dealing with the legalisation of a clinical ethics committee and some exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy under the Health Care Act, for example. permit the sharing of confidentiality-related information with the Clinical Ethics Committee and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy in the event of disclosure of supervisory reactions to other countries. Furthermore, an extended alert obligation is proposed to the State Investigation Commission on Health and Care and some amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act. The Committee points out that clinical ethics committees are currently established in all public hospitals as well as in the private non-profit hospitals which have long-term operational arrangements with regional health establishments. The Committee is aware that a national mandate has been drawn up for the ethics committees, indicating, inter alia, that the committees should be independent and independent, and that they should be broadly composed and have members representing the users, as well as competence in medical ethics and health law. The Committee has also noted that the Committees do not have decision-making or sanctioning powers nor are they a body of appeal. The clinical ethics committees shall contribute to increased awareness and competence on value issues related to patient treatment. The proposal proposes that the Swedish Health Service Act should state that health undertakings are obliged to set up a clinical ethics committee. The Committee notes that it is envisaged that the provision should state something about the composition of the committees, that the committees should be independent and independent, and that the committees should assist with advice at the request of healthcare professionals or patients. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party, note that some hearing bodies have objected to sharing confidentiality-related information with an ethics committee. The majority specify in the note that sharing must be done in accordance with the patient’s wishes. Should it not be possible to obtain the consent of the patient, it must be made clear in the patient's file why it was not possible. Otherwise, there's an overall committee that's behind the vote, and I'm putting it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1498	The case concerns the legalisation of the clinical ethics committee and some exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy in the Health Care Professional Act. I am pleased that this proposal seems to have a majority today, and also that there are so clear limitations in sharing information about silence. I would like to make it so clear that in the event of an incurrence, the government parties are not in the majority of the comment that is just about permission to share silent information with a clinical ethics committee. There are good comments with good reflections, which we can also stand behind. I would also like to make a brief comment on the Senterpartiet and SV's proposal to legislate the clinical ethics committee for providers of free treatment choices. The centre party and SV justify this proposal because the bill imposes a hospital with an agreement with the public to have a clinical ethics committee, but that is not true. These hospitals are not required by this bill to set up such a committee, but, as indicated in the vote, they have such a committee. The Government Parties and the Advance Party consider that it would not be reasonable or proportionate to impose neither private nor non-profit in agreement with the specialist health service or offering free treatment choices, to set up such a committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1507	This case is about changing health professionals and getting them to legislate on the setting up of a clinical ethics committee, increasing the alert requirement and some exemptions from the obligation to participate. We support the proposal before us, and I would like to make some comments on the proposal on the legalisation of the Clinical Ethics Committee. It is now an obligation to create it. Although it has already been imposed through the governance documents, it is now a legal responsibility. I also want to find out that I think the work of clinical ethics committees in health services is very important, and that it can help both health professionals and patients in difficult matters that a guaranteed person gets away with, and that relate to ethical and often difficult value issues that come to light. The proposal states that the Committees should have medical and health competence, ethical competence and competence in health law. It is important competence that is pointed out and that is necessary in such a multidisciplinary assessment. What has created the most debate in the proposal is the right to share cumbersome information with the ethics committees without the consent of the patient. The centre party is dubious in its support. We see that there may be situations where this is necessary, but we want to make it clear that there should be an exception, and that the main rule is still to and must be for healthcare professionals to obtain the consent of patients or, where appropriate, others with the competence to consent on behalf of the patient. The data controllers were among those who were very critical of this exception. They have recorded that there is a need for the exception rules in the situation in which such a case needs to be discussed, and where it is necessary to share cumbersome information with the ethics committee, it shall be recorded in the patient record as to why consent, if any, has not been obtained. Under these arrangements, a strict practice and a good framework for it, the Centre Party supports the proposal submitted. Finally, I would like to make the proposal that has already been mentioned, to ask the government to consider measures to ensure that, within the free choice of treatment, providers are also required to have a system of clinical ethics. We think this work is equally important if it's a public service, a private service or an ideal tool that offers patient care.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1522	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1527	It's good and important that we get an ethics committee. It is important to learn more so that health services can become even better. SV believes that patients should also have access to the Committee to raise a case. Many times, the patient knows very well the problems that have arisen. It is therefore very important that the Committees also have a user voice. Several consultation responses point this out. SV believes it has to be put in place. Public institutions shall have ethical committees, and private persons having contracts with health care shall also have them. The right-hand batches propose to privatise more of the health services with free choice of treatment. SV will not privatize the services, but if it does, we believe that all patients, including those who use health institutions that are not public or do not have an agreement with the government, should also have an ethics committee in the institution they use. That is why SV and the Central Party propose it. It is important that health professionals may be exempted from sharing silent information with the ethics committee. When knowledge and problems are hidden, it becomes difficult to see the whole thing and build a better service. For SV, it is very important that information on patients and the problems they have had should, as a general rule, be with consent. It is also very important for health professionals to be able to talk openly to the Committee without overrule and stop information shared by health professionals with the Ethics Committee. Finally, I am very pleased that the State Research Commission on Health Services, Ukom, has access to dental services and local health services, such as nursing homes, and that it is covered by the alert.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1540	Clinical ethics committees have been established today in public hospitals and in non-profit hospitals which have a long-term operating agreement with regional health establishments. The clinical ethics committees contribute to increased awareness and competence on value issues related to patient treatment. The Committees also provide advice on specific issues at the request of healthcare professionals or patients. In its proposal, the Government proposes to legislate health establishments' obligations to set up clinical ethics committees and also to legislate on the composition and tasks of those committees. Furthermore, it is proposed that, in exceptional cases, healthcare professionals should be able to share patient information with the members of a clinical ethics committee. The general rule shall be to obtain the consent of the patient for the sharing of such information. Home meal is limited to specific issues where there is a need to discuss ethical challenges in a clinical ethics committee and where it is not practicable or clearly inappropriate to obtain the consent of the patient. The purpose of sharing patient information is to ensure that ethical issues are well addressed. I am therefore pleased that the Committee is joining in on the government's proposals. The proposal also proposes to legislate a clear exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy for the notification of supervisory reactions by the State Health Authority to authorities in other countries. Mutual exchange of such information is essential to prevent healthcare professionals from continuing to provide irresponsible health care after they have lost or obtained limited authorisation in another country. In addition, it is proposed to extend to all establishments providing health and care services the alert obligation of the State Investigation Commission on Health and Care Services (Ukom). This also implies that municipal health and care services, public dental services and private health and care providers are required to notify Ukom of serious incidents. Finally, some minor technical adjustments are proposed in the Tobacco Injury Act and a basis for the Health Directorate to have access to information from the public register required by the Directorate to carry out duties under the Tobacco Injury Act. In the proposal, several different proposals have been made to ensure access to the necessary information, and I am pleased that the Committee has joined the proposals that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1564	I have a question about non-profit hospitals. Health professionals are required by this law to set up clinical ethics committees. I want to ask what the Minister of Health sees will happen to clinical ethics committees in the ideal hospitals. My local hospital, Haraldsplass hospital in Bergen, is an ideal hospital. It's a large hospital, which after size could well have its own ethics committee. How does the Council of State see this to be organised in the smaller hospitals of the public services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1569	The representative has this obligation on the part of health-care establishments. In the larger non-profit hospitals that have long-term contracts with the public, which some of our major non-profit hospitals have, they have also established this scheme. They'll still be able to do that. Although they are not subject to the obligation, there is a new legal framework around this work, which has been necessary. We have a number of smaller private health institutions in Norway that also provide specialist health services, but which are less confronted with the same ethical issues that arise in larger hospitals, and which thus experience less need for such committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1577	We know that many users know best what happens when it's very difficult. We have written comments that there should be a user voice in the ethics committees. Does the Minister for Health agree that there should be a user voice in the ethics committees?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1582	I'm also concerned that the user voice should be represented. In these contexts, it may often be that the patient’s own view is communicated and included in the evaluations. The main purpose of the Ethics Committees is to provide good guidance to health professionals in the difficult decisions to be taken, so this may vary slightly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1587	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1606	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1613	In this case, a number of proposals are being put forward, some of which have been dealt with in the past. An overall committee endorses the proposal No. 3 and 4, and it has come to my mind that also proposal No. 1 gets a majority without the government parties getting behind this. There is no majority for a new investigation of Oslo University Hospital. New OUS includes the construction of new areas both on Aker and on Gaustad. The aim of the reorganisation of hospitals in Oslo is a collection of specialised regional and national functions for better interaction and quality of treatment and better basis for research and innovation. The proposers refer to the report ‘Sickness plans for Oslo – Economic considerations about the plan for New Oslo University Hospital’. The Minister for Health has presented the economic analyses in an answer. The answer refers to and points to the overall analysis and evaluation of the report. It is not comparable to the evidence base of the New OUS, which has been the subject of a thorough investigation process, external quality assurance and repeated management processes both in the OUS and in the Health South-East. In the light of this report, the proposers believe that the government should come back to Stortinget with proposals for setting up an investigation of the localisation options. Furthermore, the proposers believe that an investment in the hospital offer to Oslo residents must ensure that Aker Hospital becomes a local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen as soon as possible, and that there is no plan for a reduction in projected hospital needs in Oslo. We agree with this, which is why we are in agreement with the rest of the Stortingen for proposals No. 3 and 4. Government parties indicate that there are extensive investigations behind plans for Nye Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. Today’s structure involves more health professionals than is necessary. Hospitals in other parts of the country lack specialists in several subjects, both doctors and nurses. It would therefore be appropriate to bring together the specialised functions in Oslo. The structure of the New OUS was set out in the Enterprise Meeting in June 2016. It was in accordance with the wishes of the Municipality of Oslo for the further development of the hospital, and the agreed plans for the New OUS are emergency good with two large emergency hospitals. A new structure also means strengthening the role of private non-profit hospitals, and there will be four hospitals with local hospital functions towards today's three. Otherwise, there is a need to clarify the following: there should be operations in Ullevål Hospital several years in advance. The start of a sale will only be possible after an approved regulation, a implemented and approved pre-project, and after the Board of Health South-East has adopted the start of construction plans for New Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. The sale of Ullevål must also be authorised in a business meeting. The demolition of functional building mass with hospital operations is not planned either on Ullevål, Aker or the Rikshospitalet before, following an approved regulation, implemented and approved for the pre-project and after the government of Health South-East has adopted the start of the construction plans for New Aker and New Rikshospitalet. Aker is to be developed as a fully-fledged hospital for the population throughout the Grorud Valley, as well as the population of one to two other parts of Oslo. It'll be a big emergency hospital. The number of days lying in 2035 for Oslo as a whole is assumed to increase by 120000 compared to 2017. Health South-East states that the local hospital functions in the New OUS are dimensioned for about 23 pst. more days off than the health care provider currently has. The projection takes into account the ongoing work of transferring tasks from the OYS to the private non-profit hospitals in Oslo. The aim is that patients in the ideal hospitals' admission areas in Oslo should be able to receive a more comprehensive treatment offer at their local hospital. The process of expanding the OUS has been extensive and thorough and has been going on for a number of years. The basis of the case can be said to extend all the way back to the collection of Health South and Health East in 2007 and the establishment of the OUS in 2008. New investigations will mean that the entire hospital structure of Oslo needs to be reviewed, and this will cause so much postponement that it cannot be defended. OYS today has some of the worst hospital buildings in the country. It's time you started building new ones. There are extensive investigations that are behind plans for New Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. Today’s structure involves more health professionals than is necessary. Hospitals in other parts of the country lack specialists in several disciplines, both among doctors and among nurses. It would therefore be appropriate to bring together the specialised functions of the OUS, both for Oslo and for the rest of Health South-East and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1641	Oslo is in desperate need of new and up-to-date hospital buildings, and for the Workers' Party there is a new emergency hospital on Aker priority number one. We're concerned that the plans are now being realized. The municipality is building a new and modern medical guard on the site of New Aker, and under no circumstances should the construction of a new hospital in Aker be postponed. The government believes that the New OUS project, with hospitals in Gaustad, the Radium Hospital and Aker, is the best solution, and we believe that progress now needs to be prioritised. The Workers' Party believes that we need to ensure sufficient capacity in the specialist health service, both for future patients and for the training of future doctors, nurses and other highly needed professionals, and also with room for people to ensure good research efforts within a wide range of medical disciplines. The Labour Party also welcomes the fact that the two ideal hospitals, Lovisenberg and the Diakon home, can develop capacity to ensure a better hospital offer for the people of Oslo. These hospitals form an important part of Oslo’s community hospital services. The Workers' Party wants a large emergency hospital in Aker with special functions for the Oslo population. In Oslo there is a need for more capacity east of the city. It's not a good solution that the eastern districts today use Ahus. Akershus needs the capacity itself. When Aker is finished, the districts of Groruddalen must have Aker as their local hospital. In addition, priority needs to be given to mental health protection. Today, mental health protection and drug abuse are spreading to many places in the city. By collecting much of the Aker offer, we will be able to offer better and more effective treatment. The life expectancy is about 20 years shorter for people with severe mental disorders than for the rest of the population. With a new hospital at Aker, we can see mental health more in the context of physical health. The Labour Party therefore believes that the plans for new hospital construction in Oslo do not now have to stop in any circumstances pending further investigations that cause delays. Finally, the Labour Party is not included in proposal No. 1 from the minority in the setting, but we are going to vote for it in the handling of the case. Disposal of Ullevål's empty space will in any case not be valid until stage two of the project. Then more health ministers, perhaps, and more magnifications will have plenty of opportunity to follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1658	Today, we are discussing a proposal for a representative, in which the proposers arrange to develop Ullevål hospitals and ensure that the citizens of Oslo have good hospital facilities with enough capacity. The new health plans have been and are controversial in the trade unions, among the citizens of Oslo and among political parties both on the Stortinget and in Oslo City Council, not least. It also affects how to deal with the matter further. When Oslo Municipality alone has grown with about 200,000 inhabitants in the last 20 years and the forecasts show stable growth, it goes without saying that something has to be done. Today's hospital services in Oslo University Hospital are designed for a much smaller and far healthier population than today's and future needs will be, while we know that parts of the building mass in the OYS are out of date. It is important to stress that the OUS is also responsible for some national functions and provides specialised healthcare to the entire country, not just to the inhabitants of the Oslo area. All of this suggests that it is both correct and important that it is planned to spend significant sums on new hospital buildings in Oslo. It also needs to be ensured that we get hospitals that are properly dimensioned in terms of sufficient areas, training of future professionals and with room for research – not only for today’s needs, but also in order for it to stand up for the future. What should worry more is that the economy is faced with the real need for a new and adequate hospital provision. In the state budget for 2020, 30 billion were allocated. kr in loan guarantee to Health South-East for the expansion plans at Gaustad and Aker. The new hospital buildings will therefore constitute Norway’s largest land-based construction project. The Progress Party is concerned that today's financing model will prevent the development of capacity needs because it is a policy-oriented cost framework. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that the financing model for hospital construction should be changed, where investment and operation are separated, and where new large hospital investments are prioritised by the Stortinget and fully financed by the State budget. Today's financing model can lead to a real decline in capacity, not only in Oslo, but throughout Health South-East. This has been the concern of the Progress Party for a long time, that what you look at as the right need and will expand may mean that other hospitals may have to be closed down within the same enterprise area. I would otherwise like to refer to the proposal No. 1 and 2, of which the Progress Party is a part, and takes these up. It is important that we now do not cause irreparable damage by hastening, as regards both the sale of land and the demolition of building that is functional.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1679	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1684	Developing Ullevål hospitals and securing residents in Oslo good hospital facilities with enough capacity is a responsibility The Stortinget must take. They have not done so now. It is necessary to invest in new hospital buildings in Oslo, but the plans approved by the Council of State in their target image back in 2016 are not hospital plans that will target the inhabitants of Oslo. The plans do not have political support in Oslo City Council, they have less and less support in Stortinget, and the resistance to the construction of a new hospital in Gaustad is increasing. The arguments for expanding the capacity of existing Ullevål hospitals are increasing. The great professional resistance, the great weakening of psychiatry, the weak local political anchoring and the uncertain economic plan must lead to one thing: that the plans to shut down Ullevål are scrapped. In June 2020, the Oslo Municipality Planning and Building Set would not recommend Health South-East its proposal for a regulatory plan. After ten new months of work, we learned yesterday that the planning and building kit will not now recommend the new reworked plans. This shows the great risk of the project, both in terms of regulation, and, as I have said, in terms of the economic and professional risks of the plans in question. There is so much danger that the currently adopted project will not be implemented. For this reason, together with SV, the Centre Party proposes today to ask the government to ‘start the investigation of alternative development opportunities for Oslo University Hospitals and come back to Stortinget with proposals’. What is important now is to ensure that an unallowed hall of hospitalization on Ullevål, that a non-allowable demolition of functional building mass at OUS, and that one awaits any decision on this until stage 2 is fully regulated and distributed in the preliminary project, and shows that the whole of Groruddalen can actually get its whole local hospital supply at Aker. The case shows that the health service model has made it possible to use urban development and the hall of hospitals as an argument in how to design the public hospital service. That's special. I'm glad the Labour Party is turning around. I hope they think so, because the Labour Party has now been the biggest supporter of the Council of State Höie in this matter. But when one votes against not approving a hall, one should also vote for our proposal No. 3, about a new layout that can be in the bottom. There will be multiple today too soon to secure Aker as a fully-fledged local hospital and not to plan for future reductions. That means that Höie's hospital project in Oslo is cracking cracks. Ullevål Hospital will pass. With that, I propose the Senterpartiet and SV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1699	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1704	As elected representatives, we are held responsible for our decisions. Sometimes it's a question of being on the right side of the story. If the excavators take Ullevål hospitals to destroy and demolish the hospital, many will lie in front of the excavators, and the city's inhabitants will ask: How could the parties at Stortinget tear down a full hospital and replace it with luxury homes, especially when we have not received a full investigation on Ullevål. How can parties that otherwise talk so much about environmental crisis and re-use scrap a full-scale hospital that we've spent millions of years refurbishing? Yes, there is a need for further upgrading. The overall social and environmental accounts show that it is wise to invest in Ullevål. There is good space for new buildings and for the necessary extensions to meet the need in the light of expected future population growth in the Oslo area. My challenge goes especially to the party I had expected more from, the Workers' Party. Will the party be able to stand up to the story when Ullevål Hospital is scrapped and the high house at Gaustad is in place? Or as assistant health director Rostrup Nakstad would probably have said, "Infection tower." It is only the SV, the Centre Party, the Red Party and the Green Party that support proposal No. 3, on an investigation to plan hospitals instead of the infected towers in Gaustad. The progress party has been high and dark in this matter, but has said that they vote against it. It is good that the Progress Party and the Labour Party support proposal No. 1 but in proposal No. 2, to stop demolition, the Labour Party is following the right-hand government, which is sad. SV has worked to strengthen Aker Hospital and that we do not reduce the number of bed places. We'll get a majority for that. Save Ullevål Hospital!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1721	The primary position of the left in this matter is known. There have been constant changes in the framework conditions associated with the so-called compact solution on Gaustad. There is disagreement about regulatory risk. There have been doubts about the quality of the investigation, nature conservation, the cultural environment, transport and a number of factors relating to the overall objectives of urban planning in the capital. Now the ball is at Oslo City Council. What has now happened is that the planning and building seat yesterday delivered its position on the details of the area. The document is comprehensive and in many ways gives a somewhat daunting impression of what we are now facing. In particular, the ETA calls for feedback from current state and local actors on the issues of flood and territorial stability, the cultural environment, helicopter noise, biodiversity, order regulations and the consequences for the treatment of patients by the municipality of Oslo. The latter is a particularly tender theme for the Municipality of Oslo and thus far from well-established. It has long been known that the Oslo politicians have been skeptical about the height of the buildings proposed. Sketches in the department's regulatory note give good reason to reinforce this scepticism. The view from old Gaustad Hospital to the west draws a picture of a 55-metre-high wall, which, with a helicopter landing site at the top in addition, represents a careless disregard for the beautiful cultural landscape around it, as the current hospital is adapted. The sequence requirements in the case of pedestrian and bicycle connections are defective. Access to public transport is difficult to be said to be well anchored. The residents of the area, who have their only access through the hospital area, could hardly have been cared for in a worse way, either during the construction period or when the hospital is operating. Worse still, there are doubts about whether the hospital giant will be able to meet a societally critical need for hospital capacity in Oslo and regionally, as it is called. We believe that the proposal has an improvement potential, writes the plan and building kit dry. But in reality, there is doubt about the target image of Health South-East – the very basic idea behind the project. It has also been raised in doubt that there are no extension options available in Gaustad, so that, if there is a need for more hospital beds, these will have to be established in a completely different area. As if that were not enough from a professional point of view, reference is made to a division of the medical emergency environment between Gaustad and Aker. With all these objections in mind, there is every reason to express such strong scepticism for the new OYS that the postponement resulting from a more thorough investigation of the project is far preferable to a potential planning scandal on Gaustad. Finally, let me also focus on what, after all, is a pleasant side to the vote on this proposal for a representative: a unanimous agreement on the need for the Aker hospital. From the left, it is only possible to get started – in parallel with a re-examination of the Ullevål and the opportunities that lie in this much better adapted area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1739	Bent Höie and the health bureaucrats plan to split the emergency environment at Ullevål in two, sell the largest hospital in northern Europe and build a new hospital in high blocks on the parking lot of the Rikshospitale, on the public mouth now known as the infected towers of Gaustad. This is health policy madness, and it is dangerous for patient safety. If you put down Ullevål, it means the transportation of critically ill and dying patients in a shuttle along the Ring 3 between Aker Hospital and the Riksen – not like today, as you have all the specialists gathered under one roof at Ullevål's emergency reception, which is absolutely vital to saving lives in the event of disaster, major accidents or in the worst case terrorist attacks. This matter is essentially a matter of: shall we listen to the professionals, to the trade unions, to seven out of ten Oslo inhabitants, and to the majority of the electoral masses of all parties, or shall we listen to the overpaid directors of Health South-East and OYS? In our view, the matter is quite simple: we should listen both to those who have the expertise on this, to the populace in Oslo, and not least to the majority in Oslo City Council. It is good that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party support our proposal to stop the sale of the Ullevål property in the first place, which is an important stage win. But then it still remains that these parties are clearly in favour of the only logical thing, namely, to find out alternative plans for this plan of Bent Höie and the health bureaucrats to build a giant infectious tower on Gaustad, a plan that was actually supposed to put Ring 3 under the lid. That premise went away. It is no longer possible to get a good, functional hospital in place on a narrow void up at Gaustad. Oslo is growing. New hospital buildings are needed. We need Aker as a local hospital for the Groruddalen, and we need new buildings for a growing population. These we have space to build on Ullevål. North of the site, new hospital buildings can be built without disturbing the current operation of the hospital. Instead, if you sell Ullevål to private speculators and build on the Riksen, there will be a construction site on the Rikshospital for ten years, and we believe that this is irresponsible for the operation of the Rikshospital. Today, we are promoting a proposal that Gaustad Hospital should be maintained to treat patients in the field of mental health protection and interdisciplinary, specialised drug treatment. It is important that we receive support from the majority for this as well. The fight for the hospitals also continues after this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1752	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1757	It is now almost five years since the adoption of the target for a new hospital structure in Oslo. The issue has been frequently debated and further investigations have been carried out to support the agreed hospital structure. Health South-East is responsible for planning, and they have used extensive resources to develop the hospital project in line with the structure adopted in 2016. In December 2019, the Stortinge adopted the loan framework for New Aker and the New Rikshospitalet. The Municipality of Oslo, at the planning and building stage, has now published the plan option for Aker and Gaustad for public oversight. I feel that as the main positive milestone in this case since the Stortingen joined the loan allocation. There are different views of the plans available. However, it is gratifying to see an overall health and care committee now agree that Aker Hospital should be developed as a fully-fledged hospital for the population throughout the Grorud Valley, as well as for some parts of Oslo. In my opinion, this is also an essential element of the overall plan. Increased capacity is needed to manage population growth in Oslo. It is therefore important that the capacity planned in Stage 1 of New Aker and New Gaustad be realised. Health South-East has learned from the experience of the extension of the Hospital Østfold. In that project, fewer beds were established than planned. In addition, the Hospital Østfold was planned with a high level of exploitation. Development of Oslo University Hospital is phased and new capacity assessments and projections for stage 2 of the project will be made. It ensures flexibility so that new buildings can be adapted to tomorrow's health care, and it also ensures adaptation to population growth. The two private non-profit hospitals in Oslo, the Diakon home hospital and the Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital, are also important in the further development of the hospital offer in Oslo and will be transferred to new tasks. Hospitals have local health responsibility for a total of six urban areas in Oslo. Private non-profit hospitals will then take care of a larger proportion of healthcare for their own patient base as well as the growth of the population in their mission areas. Oslo University Hospital is, in addition to local hospitals for parts of Oslo's population, also regional hospitals for the inhabitants of Health South-East. It also has a number of national treatment functions for residents across the country. Oslo University Hospital has some of the worst hospital buildings in the country today, and it is time to start building new ones. Users are quite clear that they cannot accept a postponement of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1772	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1777	Aker hospital emergency. It seems that the whole Storting is in agreement. Aker Hospital becomes a large local hospital with specialised functions, regional hospitals in some functions and with full mental health protection. There are great advantages in bringing mental health protection together at one address and looking it up against the somatic part of the hospital. My question to the Council of State is: Has he considered bringing together mental health protection in a separate building step to ensure the progress and start-up of Aker hospitals, as it is more complicated to start with the somatic in order to transfer professionals from the other hospitals when the functions are laid?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1784	I fully agree that it is important to ensure that mental health protection and drug services are brought together, as the representative of Kjerkol here brings up, and the whole of Groruddalen is going back to Aker again. In the case of mental health protection, it will be collected for these districts of Aker in 2031, together with the somatic area of Alna City. The last two districts, Grorud and Stovner, are assigned to new Aker once the second stage of construction has been completed, and the plan is that this will be done in 2035. With regard to the order of the different projects, I believe that Health South-East is the best place to make those types of assessments. But there is no doubt that you must be aware that the construction of the Aker hospital, which I perceive is agreed by the whole Stortinget, also depends on the extension of Gaustad, so the two projects have to go parallel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1789	I want to continue a little bit with mental health protection because of the concern that you've thought right about expanding what is then the Rikshospitalet Gaustad, a large regional hospital with also national functions, as the Rikshospitalet is today the whole of Norway's specialised hospital. Is it safe for the Council of State to have thought correctly with regard to mental health protection and Gaustad when collecting it on Aker, which is currently in the plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1794	Yes, I understand that this is thoroughly worked through by Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East. In this project, we see that many important adjustments have been made along the way, as the project has progressed. For example: Both the supply of food and the emergency services have made adjustments to anchor it even better in hospitals. I now feel that this is a project that is better anchored than ever in the professional environments of Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1799	I heard the council say he was satisfied with what the municipality of Oslo presented yesterday. As far as I can understand, the Municipality of Oslo wants to go out to a new, wider consultation of what one has come up with, and that it will not be dealt with by the City Council until 2022, I will assume. What is the reason why the Council of State is so pleased with what was presented? I would assume that he had expected something else from the Municipality of Oslo. What does that mean for the plans of the Council of State for Gaustad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1804	The representative is absolutely right. I think what was put out this week is very positive – a positive milestone that represents the necessary progress in this matter. I don't think there was anything surprising in what was presented, or in terms of further treatment. It's e.g. It's worth noting that the planning and building kit recommends, or is the most positive to, what I've seen that many in this room have been critical of, that is, the alternative that Health South-East itself wants in terms of the height of the buildings on Gaustad, that that's what's being drawn out as the best of the alternatives. I have heard that some of the representatives have advanced the height of the buildings. It is precisely the option that is now adjusted, but nevertheless it is what represents the option that one believes is best adapted to local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1809	There is an ongoing development in this matter. Not long ago, the Progress Party announced that they would vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 2, which had been promoted in the Committee of the Parties and the SV. Today, two to three hours ago, the Labour Party announced that they would vote in favour of proposal No. 1, so that Ullevål should not be sold, at least not now, in this phase. Reference is made to regulatory uncertainty. Here in the Storting, when you hear the speeches today, it's really just right as a party that now defends these plans and the whole picture of the state council. I have to say, I wonder how long can you just keep saying that we're going to do as we said five years ago. Will the Council of State now launch any alternative investigations so that he has a plan for what to do if the Storting holds the positions that are here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1815	There is nothing of the Greatness that seems to be adopting today, which provides the basis and need for any plans other than those that are being followed. I feel that the Workers' Party is very clear that they also believe it will involve unnecessary delays. I perceive that there is a lot of discussion about the sale of the Ullevål-pocket, but that's how it's going to be a lot of big business and probably a lot of health ministers before it's time to adopt some sale of the Ullevål-pocket. It's going to be running at Ullevål Hospital for many, many years to come, probably over ten years to come, so that now it's going to discuss the sale and demolition of Ullevål really seems quite strange to me, for this is something that's going to happen possibly so far in time that there's going to be many gambling choices and probably many successors after me until that time, so I take it quite calmly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1820	The Board of Health South-East has itself recognised that there is a regulatory risk in the Gaustad project. The construction of Gaustad has not yet been authorised. How can the Minister not justify ensuring a full investigation and with it risking an even longer delay?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1825	There is always a regulatory risk in these kinds of cases. I believe that the risk is now significantly less than it was a week ago, now that the plan is on consultation by the Municipality of Oslo. In fact, one points to areas that can be improved, but the planning and building kits say that they assume that several of these objections are met, and I also perceive that they are within problem areas that it will be possible to address. So it will be important to get the hearings until June, so that you can also see what others think and think about this. But I realize that the regulatory risk is less now than it was a week ago, and I'm very positive about that. That's why it's a positive milestone in progress, what happened on 12 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1830	The cord shift is over. We shall suspend the debate on substance. 9 to go to voting. We shall continue the debate after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1844	The size is then ready to go to voting. The president makes it clear that today there will be a long vote, so it's just to put away the cell phones, be focused and press the green and red buttons when the president tells you to do it. The vote will only take place on Thursday 8 April, agenda no. 65.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1860	Mr Aukrust has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote before we go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1865	From the Workers' Party we report two things. One is that proposal No. 8, from the Labour Party and the Centre Party, does not seem to have a majority, so the Labour Party will also vote in favour of proposal No. 186, which is roughly the same thing. This is the case with proposal No. 63, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. It is a proposal that has received a number of misleading interpretations in the media, so I would just like to clarify also from the Storting Chair before we go to voting, that when it says ‘private parking spaces’, it is of course talking about public parking facilities, in line with, among other things. that which has been the KS’ metropolitan network, and that is a clarification from all three parties behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1872	A total of 329 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 4-10, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 11-138, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 139, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 140–151, from Åsmund Aukrust on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 152–154, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 155-162, by Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 163–165, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 166 to 188, by Terje Halleland, on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 189 to 201, from Sandra Borch on behalf of the Centre Party, the proposals No 202–324, by Lars Haltbrecken on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens the proposals No 325-328, by Lars Haltbrecken, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 329, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA In the event of an incubation, the Workers' Party has remained as co-sponsor of proposal No. 48. There is a vote on proposal No. 329 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up sectoral climate plans to investigate the measures that need to be implemented to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80 pst. by 2030 compared to 1990.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1932	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 325, 327 and 328 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 325 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and, in the context of the State budget for 2022, to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for a green people’s bonus. It shall be assumed that the people's bonus is to be paid to people with low and normal incomes and that the total amount paid is to be equal to the increase in the CO 2 tax.» Proposal No. 327 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the revenue from the increase in CO 2 taxes, with the exception of the increase in the petroleum sector, to be matched by at least an equal amount on the expenditure side of the State budget to a green people’s bonus.’ Proposal No. 328 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a plan to reduce emissions from the base by at least 50 pst. compared with 1990 emissions. The plan shall also include a strategy on how to build up a sea wind production that in the long term produces at least as much electricity as is required to electrify the base. Marine wind production must also be connected to shore-based mains power grids in order to benefit from the phase-out of platforms.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1965	There is a vote on proposal No. 326 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government in the annual budgets to assess compensatory measures for groups particularly affected by the increase in CO 2 tax.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e1986	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 304, 313 and 322 from the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 304 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a production levy on oil companies in connection with the State budget for 2022. The production charge shall contribute to the financing of zero-emission technologies such as sea wind.’;» Proposal No. 313 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a model to ensure the profitable development of large-scale floating sea wind.’ Proposal No. 322 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the contribution of the government to risk relief and forecast revenues for the marine wind companies, for example based on the successful British model of differences contracts that share risk and gain between industry and the state.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2013	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 298-303, 305-312, 314-321, 323 and 324 from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 298 sounds: ‘The government is asking for requirements for the CO 2 compensation scheme to stimulate energy efficiency improvement, climate reduction and transition to climate-friendly processes.’ Proposal No. 299 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with proposals for legislative changes on the Bank of Norway and the money sector, so that climate change becomes part of the purpose of the Bank of Norway. The Central Bank shall be required to contribute to the achievement of the climate objectives of Norway through international agreements and to carry out ongoing assessments of the impact of climate change on the Norwegian economy and its economic and political changes.’» Proposal No. 300 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the framework conditions and regulation of the financial sector in order to promote migration and climate change, by ensuring that climate and climate risk are taken into account in the credit process.’ Proposal No. 301 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to prevent greenwashing by developing or applying clear standards for products such as green mortgages and prohibiting the marketing of ‘green’ financial products that are not really green.’ Proposal No. 302 sounds: ‘The government is asked to look at the possibilities for Norway to strengthen the EU’s definitions of green investment.’ Proposal No. 303 sounds: ‘The government is asking for municipal and county pension funds and other funds to be withdrawn from fossil energy by 2024.’ Proposal No. 305 sounds: ‘The Government cancels the TFO 2021 and the 25th concession round and does not grant any new exploration or extraction permits.’ Proposal No. 306 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine whether new oil licences are in line with the 1.5 degree target and to reject licences which may run counter to the 1.5 degree target.’ Proposal No. 307 sounds: ‘The government asks whether Norway’s plans for future oil production are in line with the 1.5-degree target and how oil production should develop in the future if the world is to have a good chance of reaching the 1.5-degree target. The investigation is requested to assess both the historical responsibility of Norway, the possibility of global emissions reductions in Norwegian oil extraction and realism in different 1.5 degree scenarios. ‘... Proposal No. 308 sounds: ‘The government is asking for stricter climate requirements in the plan for expansion and operation than is currently the case, for example an obligation to investigate exported emissions.’ [[PUD]] Proposal No. 309 sounds: ‘The government requests the visibility of exported emissions from Norwegian oil and gas in the emission accounts and to report on them back to Stortinget in the context of the submission of future government budgets and climate plans.’;» Proposal No. 310 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate an agreement between oil and gas producing countries to voluntarily reduce production and exports in addition to the Paris Agreement in order to reduce carbon leakage. Norway must go ahead with cutting its production.» Proposal No. 311 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to remove the tax advantages of the oil industry compared to other industries and to return to Stortinget with proposals for neutral petroleum tax system.’ Proposal No. 312 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with proposals for climate agreements between different parts of industry and the authorities, using the NO x fund model, where the participating industry undertakes to cut emissions towards zero by 2030.’ [[both quota and non-quota industries]] Proposal No. 314 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to fund the production, distribution and use of hydrogen in Norway.’ Proposal No. 315 sounds: «The government asks the government to determine how to remove emissions from all large point emissions by 2030 through a large-scale carbon capture and storage effort [[CCS]] Proposal No. 316 sounds: ‘The government requests the provision of incentives to enhance the profitability of CCS on waste incineration, including the crediting of carbon capture on biogenic CO 2 emissions.’ Proposal No. 317 sounds: ‘The government is asking for national framework conditions for waste incineration to give CCS an advantage over incineration without CCS, while at the same time taking steps to prevent the waste being exported to cheaper combustion abroad.’ Proposal No. 318 sounds: «The government is asking the government to establish a consumption-based climate accounting covering emissions from our consumption of imported goods.» Proposal No. 319 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for clear CO 2 labelling requirements for consumer products.’ Proposal No. 320 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to grant a legal right to repair the consumer and the obligation to repair dealers.’ Proposal No. 321 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and take action to increase the life span of things.’ Proposal No. 323 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own global report on Norway’s climate finance internationally to give a more comprehensive picture of Norway’s overall climate response, where increased carbon storage in soil here at home and in countries receiving Norwegian aid and climate funding should be viewed in a coherent manner and follow the same principles.’ Proposal No. 324 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that fuel stations supported by the Mercury programme are required to set up electric vehicle quick chargers.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2163	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 279-282 and 296, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 279 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to open up business as an alternative to an increased CO 2 tax to enter into sectoral agreements with the country, using a model from the NO x fund of the economy, where they undertake to cut at least as much emissions as a fee increase would give.’ Proposal No. 280 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the increase in CO 2 tax not to be compensated by a lower user charge, which would drastically reduce the emission effect.’ Proposal No. 281 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that no tax relief is granted to reduce the environmental impact of the increased CO 2 tax.» Proposal No. 282 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to pay a natural land use levy in order to limit the degradation of Norwegian nature and to return to Stortinget with a proposal in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 296 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and impose a ban on the use of all fossil energy in industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2212	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 283-295 and 297 from the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 283 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a climate tax on goods imported into Norway and follow the process in the EU.’ Proposal No. 284 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and introduce road pricing for heavy transport, as an alternative form of charging for fuel charges.’ Proposal No. 285 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to investigate the possibility of charging climate change charges on flights in Norwegian airspace and shipping in Norwegian waters and to report back to the Stortinget in the context of a revised national budget for 2022.’» Proposal No. 286 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that the escalation of the CO 2 tax by 2030 will take place at least at the same rate as the impact calculations carried out in the government’s climate plan.’;» Proposal No. 287 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all public investigations to use a carbon price of at least NOK 2000 per tonne of CO 2 equivalent to estimate the socio-economic costs of greenhouse gas emissions.’ Proposal No. 288 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to require all municipalities to prepare a climate budget according to the model from, among others, the Municipality of Oslo, which aims to cut emissions by at least 60 pst. by 2030.» Proposal No. 289 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that climate accounts are drawn up for all State activities from 2022 and that zero emission targets are planned for 2030.’ Proposal No. 290 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and conclude several commitments of cooperation with different sectors of industry in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the Paris Agreement and return to the Stortinge in the context of the State budget for 2022.’» Proposal No. 291 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the possibility for municipalities to grant exemptions from the cultivation of bogs.’ Proposal No. 292 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a strategy to come back to Stortinget to reduce forest, moor and agricultural land degradation.’ Proposal No. 293 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for a ban on the construction of ants in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 294 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a national climate budget and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for the climate budget in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 295 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and prohibit the use of all fossil energy in construction sites and for heating and cooling.’ Proposal No. 297 sounds: «The government asks it to develop a clear standard for climate accounting that will in the long term be made a compulsory part of the annual accounts of all accounting activities.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2304	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 262 and 274 from the Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 262 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and introduce an award of the most environmentally friendly suppliers for a public mission and come back to the Stortinget with proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 274 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for measures to reduce the consumption of red and processed meat to the level recommended by the dietary councils.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2326	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 261, 263-273 and 275-278, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 261 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the State has to take a leading role and to set time targets for the country’s own activities as emission-free. This contributes both to the development of new technologies and solutions and to the setting of an example.’ Proposal No. 263 sounds: «The Government requests that emission-free public transport be required by the government for all future tenders during 2021 and that it report back to the Storting appropriately.» Proposal No. 264 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to use the public purchasing power to accelerate the development of low and zero emission solutions.’ Proposal No. 265 sounds: ‘The size requests the government to investigate and introduce fossil-free and post-emission site requirements from 2023 and to report back to the Stortinge in the context of the revised budget.’;» Proposal No. 266 reads: ‘The size calls on the government to demonstrate the pre-emption of the capture and storage of biogent CO 2 pending any change in international accounting principles.’;» Proposal No. 267 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of an export tax on waste at the same level as any CO 2 tax on waste.’ Proposal No. 268 sounds: ‘The government is asking for priority to be given to increased State funding for the waste incineration plant on Klemetsrud and to return with proposals under the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 269 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen national soil protection and to introduce a zero vision for the reduction of cropland and arable land, and that the agricultural settlement government must come back with an instrument package to ensure this.’ Proposal No. 270 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a protein plan on a model from Sweden and France, which paves the way for increased production and consumption of plant proteins in Norway, both directly to people and as an input factor in the livestock population.’ Proposal No. 271 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up and introduce mandatory, quality-assured labelling reflecting the overall environmental footprint of a food.’ Proposal No. 272 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and introduce subsidies to make people eat more plant-based food, according to the model from subsidies to maritime food measures.’ Proposal No. 273 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a Commission for Food and Agriculture. The Commission shall examine how Norwegian agriculture can be helped to make a positive transition as meat consumption declines and how Norwegian self-sufficiency can be ensured by providing our own production with the desired competitiveness compared to imported plant-based raw material.» Proposal No. 275 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the meat consumption be reduced to the level recommended by the dietary councils and that agricultural policy be aligned in a way that strengthens rural agriculture and ensures reduced greenhouse gas emissions, good use of resources and the preservation of bio-diversity, and come back to Stortingen with a proposal for the treatment of the agricultural agreement for 2021-2022.’ Proposal No. 276 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess, in the submission of each State budget, whether there is a need for further increase in the CO 2 tax in order to achieve the climate objectives in force at all times.’ Proposal No. 277 sounds: ‘The government asks for an annual linear increase in the CO 2 tax.’ Proposal No. 278 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme in which non-quota enterprises are allowed to set aside the amount constituting the difference between the EU-CO 2 allowance price and the Norwegian CO 2 tax in an internal Climate Change Fund. The climate fund shall be used to finance climate action in the company’s own value chain, from the procurement of raw materials, own production and distribution to the customer.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2439	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 243-260, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 243 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a national rule that electric cars are exempted from bombing until they reach 25 pst. of the goods car passages in the relevant section of the toll.» Proposal No. 244 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the CO 2 component from the one-off charge for commercial vehicles equipped with internal combustion engines in order to increase the proportion of electric vehicles.’ Proposal No. 245 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting to ensure zero emission solutions for the remaining diesel sections in Norway and to introduce a hydrogen test scheme from the same year.’; Proposal No. 246 sounds: «The government requests the application of emission-free public transport for all future tenders during 2021 and zero emissions from all existing tenders from 2025.» Proposal No. 247 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to eliminate and introduce a reduced speed limit on motorways as a climate action.’ Proposal No. 248 sounds: «The Government requests the introduction of zero-emission transport requirements in deliveries to the public from 2022 for all transport operations where zero-emission vehicles are available.» Proposal No. 249 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the law on electricity tariffs in network rentals as soon as possible with a view to making high-speed charging commercially viable throughout the country. This can be done by establishing a new network lease structure to allow energy to be charged with an annual consumption of up to 400000 kWh and to compensate for any loss of revenue for network operators through increased energy levels.» Proposal No. 250 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of marketing requirements for the use of biofuels in civil aviation diesel and maritime transport from 2022.’;» Proposal No. 251 sounds: ‘The size requires the government to step up the turnover requirement for advanced biofuels in diesel to 100 pst. in 2030.’» Proposal No. 252 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a target of 10 TWh per year biogas production in 2030 and to present an obligatory action plan for biogas with rapid production escalation.’ Proposal No. 253 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a model of production and delivery support for biogas plants to be implemented by the government in order to ensure more than one major installation.’ Proposal No. 254 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up under the framework conditions for biogas production in the Nordic region, with a view to facilitating increased competitiveness and an equivalent framework for producers in Norway as in the rest of the Nordic region. The selection should be wide-ranging and have participants from both Norwegian commercial biogas producers and the international trade union environment.’;» Proposal No. 255 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the rapid development of biogas filling stations along the main transport corridors in the country and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for measures to trigger investment in infrastructure for this purpose.’ Proposal No. 256 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue a climate law for the municipalities. Such a law can be built on the same reading as the current climate law, but with local scope for municipalities and county municipalities.» Proposal No. 257 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all municipalities and county councils have their own committed, politically adopted climate budget as a governance document.’ Proposal No. 258 sounds: «The government is asking the government to promote a proposal for its own climate legislation for municipalities. The law shall clarify the responsibilities of the municipality for climate change and provide the municipality with management tools to ensure emission reduction in line with climate objectives, where the climate impact of all major decisions has to be assessed.’;» Proposal No. 259 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to make visible and assess the climate impacts of all relevant policy-making issues.’ Proposal No. 260 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to require municipalities to remove all fossil emissions from their own activities by 2025.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2547	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 205, 235, 239, 240 and 242, by the Socialist Left Party and the Greens. Proposal No. 205 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and propose a carbon tax model for distribution, where the proceeds from the increased CO 2 tax on petrol and diesel are re-disbursed to all citizens as a climate reward. Geographical and social distribution considerations shall be taken into account in the grading of the payment.’;» Proposal No. 235 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to lift the role of cities as one of the main priorities of international climate work together with the conservation of rainforest and renewable energy.’ Proposal No. 239 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals to amend Section 7 of the Road Traffic Act so that municipalities can establish zero-emission zones for climate reasons.’ Proposal No. 240 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme to support the purchase, car sharing or leasing of electric cars for low-income households.’ Proposal No. 242 sounds: ‘The government is asking to continue the electric car benefits in such a way that the electric car is becoming increasingly competitive compared to fossil cars in all categories’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2587	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 222-234, 236-238 and 241, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 222 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of zero energy or plus-house requirements in the building regulations by 2030.’ Proposal No. 223 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a target to reduce traffic in the major cities by at least 40 pst. by 2030.» Proposal No. 224 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that projects in the NTP contribute to rapid emission reductions and environmental improvements and are based on knowledge of, inter alia, innovative traffic and climate impacts of construction and land use change.’ Proposal No. 225 sounds: ‘The government asks it to draw up a separate action plan on zero emissions in air and to report back to the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 226 reads: ‘The government is asking to stop Avinor’s bonus schemes for new long-haul routes and airlines with passenger growth and instead to spend this money on electric aircraft betting and the reward of the companies that will participate in its development.’ Proposal No. 227 sounds: ‘The government is asked to liquidate schemes that subsidise the airlines, such as tax-free.’ Proposal No. 228 sounds like: ‘The government asks the government to liquidate loyalty programs as bonus points.’ Proposal No. 229 reads: ‘The government is asked to ensure that Avinor’s mandate is made clear so that the company does not have to work for traffic growth.’ Proposal No. 230 sounds: ‘The government requests that the passenger fee be changed to an aeroplane seat charge, so it will be more profitable to fill all aircraft seats.’ Proposal No. 231 sounds like: ‘The government is asking the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals for a progressive air passenger fee which increases the number of flights taken this year. The necessary flights on the short-range network shall be protected.’» Proposal No. 232 sounds: ‘The government is asking for untapped instruments to make the luxury consumption of greenhouse gas emissions more expensive, such as the introduction of a high CO 2 tax on fuel for yachts and the use of private aircraft.’ Proposal No. 233 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting a flight relief fee on routes with train offers and where train investments can completely replace aeroplanes, according to the model of the ferry relief fee.’ Proposal No. 234 sounds like: ‘The government asks the Government to investigate and come back to Stortinget with proposals for increased air passenger charges on flights between the major cities of South Norway where good alternatives to aircraft are available.’ Proposal No. 236 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a parking fee for employees at all State workplaces, such as higher education institutions.’ Proposal No. 237 sounds: ‘The Presidency is requesting a parking charge for parking in Stortingsgarage.’ Proposal No. 238 sounds like: ‘The government is asked to amend the conditions for low-emission zones in order to allow them to be established for climate reasons.’ Proposal No. 241 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to reduce collective prices by 20 per cent throughout the country.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2692	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 202-204 and 206-221, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 202 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to assume that the CO 2 tax on the cap is to be increased to at least the same level as the general CO 2 tax, irrespective of the allowance price.’ Proposal No. 203 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the climate target to reduce Norway’s total emissions by at least 60 per cent by 2030, compared to 1990.’ Proposal No. 204 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the climate target for Norway to be fossil-free by 2040 and for a plan to show how we can achieve negative emissions by 2040. The size asks the government to come back with proposals for the updated emission budget in line with the Storting decision on climate targets.’ Proposal No. 206 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide for a predictable escalation of environmental taxes and a use of the revenue from the levy, which ensures the necessary impact and simultaneous integration of the population into environmental taxes as a climate policy instrument, and which is socially and geographically equitable.’;» Proposal No. 207 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to monitor emissions from irradiation in Norway and to come back to Stortinget with proposals for measures to reduce these emissions in the context of the 2022 national budget.’ Proposal No. 208 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure progress in the investigation of specific requirements for marine, offshore and freight vessel emissions, which are still consistent with the Green Shipping Action Plan from 2019 and to report back to the Stortinge in the context of the revised budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 209 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to grant very limited exemption from the emission requirements for marine, offshore and cargo vessels.’ Proposal No. 210 sounds: ‘The government is asking for full electrification or use of renewable fuels in new concessions for the breeding industry.’ Proposal No. 211 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to determine and introduce a CO 2 tax on the use of fuel in all concessional activities [[petroleum-related activities, aquaculture and fishing]] Proposal No. 212 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for zero emissions from tourism ships and ferries in the World Heritage fjords to be introduced as soon as possible, so that the industry has time to convert to the requirement to enter into force by 2026 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 213 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan to extend the zero-emission requirements to other Norwegian fjords as well, in line with the 2018 Storing Decision on emission requirements for all fjords.’ Proposal No. 214 sounds: ‘The Government requests that low and zero emission requirements for ferries and high speed craft be fixed, with very limited scope for exemption from the requirements. For ferries, the requirement should be zero emissions. Those requirements should be introduced as soon as possible, no later than in 2023 and 2025 respectively, as proposed in the Climate Change Communication (Report. [[2020-2021]] St. 13 Proposal No. 215 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to require that low and zero emission solutions in public procurement of maritime transport services be regulated and implemented by 2023 at the latest.» Proposal No. 216 sounds: ‘The government requests the removal of the document fee in case of total rehabilitation and when parts of the building consist.’ Proposal No. 217 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to issue white certificates or energy-saving obligations, which are green energy-saving certificates.’ Proposal No. 218 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government for its own energy saving programme to be implemented in joint ventures and housing teams and for low-income families and tenants. The study shall assess financial support and energy loans for the implementation of an additional measure.’ Proposal No. 219 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a reward scheme for the municipalities according to how many kWh they have saved in their own building mass. The scheme must be simple and unbureaucratic and also reward the municipalities that have previously implemented energy measures.’ Proposal No. 220 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to carry out appropriate pilot projects where energy and power reduction measures are applied in an area as alternatives to upgrading local trafo and line networks. This can reduce the cost of energy for each household and at the same time reduce the network rental for all households.» Proposal No. 221 sounds like: ‘The government requests the introduction of almost zero energy requirements in the 2021 building regulations where energy requirements are reduced by 40 to 60 per cent compared to current requirements’.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2819	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 189, 191, 195 and 197-201, of the Central Party. Proposal No. 189 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment in updating the Climate Act of the impact that Norway’s 2050 target is an objective of a ‘low-carbon society’ rather than a ‘climate-neutral society’, as well as a proposal for inclusion in Norway’s 2030 and 2050 climate targets.’ Proposal No. 191 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an agreement-based scheme for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian ships, whereby shipowners undertake to halve greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 in relation to the 2005 emissions and where the CO 2 tax is set at the EU quota price when the agreement enters into force.’;» Proposal No. 195 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce calculation methods for reporting our emissions obligations that distinguish short-lived and long-lived greenhouse gas emissions’.» Proposal No. 197 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a plan on how the forest can be used more extensively in the context of climate change and to present measures to significantly increase the long-term uptake of carbon on Norwegian forest land, forest planting on new areas and how forest raw materials can contribute to reducing climate emissions in other sectors. The plan must investigate the value creation measures and concrete climate measures that make the forest optimally exploited in order to achieve our long-term climate objectives and how they can be implemented.’ Proposal No. 198 sounds like: ‘The government requests the establishment of a subsidy scheme for the planting of forests in climate-related conditions, in order to increase the CO 2 capture of forests.’; Proposal No. 199 sounds: «The government is asked to reject a general target to triple the CO 2 tax by 2030. The arrangements and any increase in CO 2 tax and compensatory measures shall be laid down in the annual budgets.’;» Proposal No. 200 sounds: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the industries concerned and to arrive at concrete solutions and realistic objectives based on available instruments for each sector.’ Proposal No. 201 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to negotiate and conclude agreements with different sectors with objectives and instruments similar to those of agriculture, where appropriate.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2885	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 190, 192-194 and 196, of the Central Party. Proposal No. 190 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain how the various changes in the structure of EU climate legislation could affect the Norwegian climate objectives and their implementation.’ Proposal No. 192 reads: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the construction of 10000 high-speed chargers across the country by 2030, and by the end of 2022 have a plan for the roll-out of hydrogen and biogas filling stations.’ Proposal No. 193 sounds: ‘The government is asking for transitional arrangements to be provided for in requiring emission-free solutions in public ferries and fast boat offers and for additional costs to be covered by the State in this respect.’ Proposal No. 194 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a climate policy that balances the objectives of the Paris Agreement to reduce climate emissions and the assumption that this should not be at the expense of food production and the objective of food security and the fight against hunger.’ Proposal No. 196 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or increase carbon uptake in the government’s annual reporting to the Storting if the measures have scientifically demonstrable climate effects. This also applies to measures that do not yet have a fully developed accounting methodology in Norway’s official climate accounts.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e2925	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 166 to 170, 172, 175, 176, 178 to 183, 185, 187 and 188 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 166 reads: ‘The government is asking for evidence to be provided for each climate action to justify the level of emissions.’ Proposal No. 167 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow the principle of prioritising the measures giving the lowest possible price for the implementation of climate policy.’ Proposal No. 168 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the use of quota flexibility when, after a diet/benefit analysis, it is more profitable than implementing measures in Norway.’ Proposal No. 169 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to harmonise the value of standing forests with the EU.’ Proposal No. 170 sounds: ‘The government requests the launch of a reforestation project to allow Norway to account for the maximum permitted carbon uptake from new planting by 2030 in line with the LULUCF legislation.’ Proposal No. 172 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the car to be an attractive means of transport for people in both the city and the countryside.’ Proposal No. 175 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that, where there are no low-emission options, the fuel tax for vans and heavy goods vehicles be harmonised with taxes within the EEA territory.’ Proposal No. 176 sounds: ‘The government is asked to state that increases in the CO 2 tax are compensated by a reduced user charge so that the tax burden on fuel does not increase.’ Proposal No. 178 sounds: ‘The government is asking for safe fuel for older cars by introducing 98E0 as the petrol safety standard.’ Proposal No. 179 sounds: ‘The government is asked to be technologically neutral in the design of the instrument.’ Proposal No. 180 sounds: ‘The government is asking for compensation for any increased CO 2 charge on domestic air tickets.’ Proposal No. 181 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an ex ante reduction obligation as a technology-neutral approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic’.» Proposal No. 182 sounds: ‘The government is asking to set technology-neutral targets and not to favour some technologies’. Proposal No. 183 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an offensive forestry policy in which forests are fully used to achieve Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions commitments.’ Proposal No. 185 sounds: ‘The Government is asking not to reduce the content of red meat from the public procurement of food and serving services.’ Proposal No. 187 sounds: ‘The government requests the provision of a CO 2 price that does not exceed the quota price in the market at any time, but also aims to harmonise with the quota price.’;» Proposal No. 188 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish an environmental agreement with the industries concerned for the establishment of a CO 2 fund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3037	There is a vote on proposal No. 177 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked not to introduce taxes on private parking spaces or the benefit of parking at the employer’s premises.’ The Central Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3054	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 171, 173, 174 and 184 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 171 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how sectors or industries that do not have the opportunity to switch to alternative technologies can be protected by increased CO 2 tax.’ Proposal No. 173 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that imports of petrol and diesel cars, whether new or second-hand, are not prohibited by the Government.’ Proposal No. 174 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to impose requirements on zero-emission cars in public procurement of passenger and goods cars.’ Proposal No. 184 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scientifically verifiable effect that contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions or to the increase of carbon uptake in soil to be made visible in the government’s annual reporting to the Stortinge.’» The centre party has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3091	There is a vote on proposal No. 186, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that increased taxation of Norwegian meat production should not be implemented as part of climate policy.’ The Labour Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3110	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 163–165, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 163 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of a green investment company to contribute to strategic investments and long-term loans in companies that invest in climate-friendly solutions and products, based on green renewable carbon.’ Proposal No. 164 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a communication on how to ensure the preparedness of a society to be electrified more and more.’ Proposal No. 165 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a ‘Bionova’, a 10-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. agricultural crowns, where operators can apply for support for the conversion of production and operation so that climate emissions The Fund shall also contribute to the financing of measures to increase the binding of CO 2 in forests and soil.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3143	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 155-162, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 155 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to increase the right of return on new dwellings from five to 10 years in the Housing Entry Act to ensure longer durability of materials.’ Proposal No. 156 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate intensively in the building regulations to use heat pumps for heating and return to Stortinget with proposals.’ Proposal No. 157 sounds: ‘The government is asking for binding cooperation with industrial transport operators in order to put in place solutions that provide opportunities for heavy goods transport and to re-open negotiations on a CO 2 fund for the commercial transport of goods.’ Proposal No. 158 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with a plan to electrify, introduce hydrogen trains or hybrid solutions on all routes where diesel trains are currently operating.’ Proposal No. 159 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a plan for how we will achieve the goal of 30 pst. the carriage of goods by lorry over 300 km shall be moved to sea and rail by 2030. The plan shall be submitted to the Stortinge in connection with the State budget for 2022.’.» Proposal No. 160 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to renegotiate the Chicago Convention in order to increase charges on international aviation.’ Proposal No. 161 sounds: ‘The Government requests the immediate implementation of the adopted exemption in the heavy-duty vehicle bombing on biogas and reports back to the Stortinge in the context of the revised budget.’;» Proposal No. 162 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in the import quotas for agricultural products.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3201	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 153 and 154 from the Progress Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 153 sounds: ‘The government is asking for Norwegian short sea shipping to have a level playing field with other EU countries and to ask them to come back with proposals on how we can ensure that the CO 2 tax does not exceed the EU quota price at any time.’ Proposal No. 154 sounds: ‘The Government asks that there should be no zero-emission zones preventing people from driving their petrol or diesel cars in parts of Norwegian cities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3226	There is a vote on proposal No. 152 from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place and implement the outsourced off-shore vessel reconnaissance system.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3243	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 140, 141, 146 and 150, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 140 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the expansion of wind power in places where there is good wind conditions and local acceptability, in line with our positions in the wind power message from the autumn of 2020, and to have a big investment in floating sea winds.’ Proposal No. 141 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the concession system is dimensioned in order to deliver environmentally good concessions for solar water and wind power projects in line with expected consumption developments.’ Proposal No. 146 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate the development of more clean energy and infrastructure through a comprehensive plan for Norwegian hydropower, wind power and other energy expansions that require concession.’ Proposal No. 150 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate, in cooperation with the industry, ensuring that the emissions from the production of oil and gas on Norwegian cap are cut by 50 per cent by 2030 and to net zero by 2050, measured against 2005.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3275	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 142–145, 147–149 and 151 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 142 sounds: «The government is asked to enter into committed climate partnerships with specifically vulnerable industries. These agreements shall be in place early and before the CO 2 charge is escalated. These climate agreements shall take into account the competitiveness of industry with a stepping-up plan.’;» Proposal No. 143 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the measures in the climate partnerships to be proportionate to the industry’s contribution and to take into account what is needed to cut greenhouse gas emissions, maintain jobs and drive new technologies. The measures shall be financed from the annual State budgets.’;» Proposal No. 144 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the compensation scheme for the fishing industry until satisfactory alternative solutions or binding agreements are in place.’ Proposal No. 145 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a separate concession regime for marine farming with strict sustainability and co-existence between different industries at sea.’ Proposal No. 147 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a gradual reduction in the benefits of the most expensive electric cars and for new petrol and diesel cars to increase the CO 2 component in order to achieve the objective of selling only zero-emission cars by 2025.’ Proposal No. 148 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reduction in user charges by geographical differentiation, so that the price of petrol and diesel has little or no increase in districts, but slightly greater in key areas where there is better developed public transport. The tax increase will not be linear, but will be lower at the beginning of the period and increase as zero-emission cars become more relevant alternatives throughout the country.» Proposal No. 149 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider that the need and efficiency of compensation schemes for the CO 2 tax are to be evaluated by 2025 in order to measure the effectiveness of emission reduction.’;» Proposal No. 151 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate, as far as possible, electrification on Norwegian pedestal, by sea wind, balanced by power from land. [[and to]] It should be a long-term goal that there is as much power produced on the socket as the socket itself uses. However, this must not delay the work on electrification.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3340	There is a vote on proposal No. 139 from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate and report on the integration of climate risk in its investment decisions and in its ordinary activities by the petroleum companies.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3357	There is a vote on proposal No. 136, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a system of annual concession notices for marine wind according to the Marine Energy Act, based on the mapping of both natural and wind conditions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 116-135, 137 and 138, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 116 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy with targets and instruments for different sectors and habitat types, including both land management, forest and agricultural measures and restoration of nature.’ Proposal No. 117 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a natural cure as a comprehensive investigation that provides the basis for the decision we need to secure carbon stocks in Norwegian nature. The study should compile knowledge and propose solutions that see climate and natural diversity in the context, and promote both.’» Proposal No. 118 sounds: ‘The government is asking for natural solutions to the climate crisis to be increased by, inter alia, preserving and improving natural carbon stocks such as ants and wetlands, increasing carbon storage in the food soil, re-establishing the seaweed and increasing the rotation time in the forestry.’ Proposal No. 119 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a concrete strategy by the end of 2022, with the necessary legal constraints, to prevent the destruction of ants.’ Proposal No. 120 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the role and competence of municipalities in the work of nature and climate, with particular emphasis on sustainable land management.’ Proposal No. 121 reads: ‘The government is asking for the effect of carbon storage and uptake on the entire ecosystem to be taken into account when assessing the climate use of measures in forests and other ecosystems and for the overall impact on climate and natural diversity to be positive for their implementation. And that measures of professional disagreement around the benefits of climate change and negative impacts on natural diversity should be based on the precautionary principle, and that the development of the knowledge base should be prioritised.’ Proposal No. 122 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop mechanisms to compensate forest, soil or other nature building developers for this by restoring nature elsewhere through a so-called natural contribution and returning to Stortinget with a proposal in connection with the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 123 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a reward system in forestry and agriculture that makes it profitable for farmers and forest owners to operate in such a way as to increase natural carbon storage in soil.’ Proposal No. 124 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out a natural risk assessment for the Norwegian economy using the model of the Climate Risk Committee.’ Proposal No. 125 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a national plan to maintain and restore nature in line with international commitments.» Proposal No. 126 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to determine how Norwegian State-owned companies are to reduce natural risk to their activities, in line with the UN’s sustainability objectives.’ Proposal No. 127 sounds like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to intensify efforts to save threatened Norwegian species and natural habitats.’ Proposal No. 128 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up reporting procedures so that municipal reporting through KOSTRA includes land accounts and an overview of any conversion of nature, as well as a national nature budget based on reported data.’;» Proposal No. 129 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to draw up a concrete plan to increase the CO 2 tax by 2030 in order to ensure predictability.’ Proposal No. 130 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put clear expectations to the municipalities in an appropriate way to make full use of the possibilities to make climate change requirements in regulatory plans.’ Proposal No. 131 reads: ‘The government asks to return to Stortinget with proposals for its own climate target for the CO 2 capture of forests so that this does not weaken the efforts to cut fossil energy use.’ Proposal No. 132 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a public sector climate plan, proposing to cut emissions from the police, fire services, hospitals, hubs, prisons, etc.’. Proposal No. 133 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to enforce the ban on flares and other emissions and to implement measures to ensure this and report back to the Storting appropriately.’ [[as NMVOC]] Proposal No. 134 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate and establish a system of contracts for differences, in addition to Enova.’ Proposal No. 135 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend Statnett’s mandate to facilitate electrification and industrial development.’ Proposal No. 137 sounds like: ‘The Government is asking the Government to strengthen the monitoring of the seabed through MAREANO, especially in those areas of the North Sea that are suitable for bottom-sea wind.’ Proposal No. 138 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the strengthening of surveillance and monitoring of seabirds in areas relevant to sea-window construction through the SEAOP/SEATRACK programme.’» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3506	There is a vote on proposal No. 83 and proposals Nos. 98-100, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the ability of municipalities to introduce their own climate measures in the transport sector, such as zero-emission zones and greater local self-government in the parking policy.’ Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to expand and strengthen producer responsibility so that producers pay a greater share of the cost of handling plastic waste and come back with proposals for the Storting in connection with the State budget.’ Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider, in particular, measures and instruments to increase the recycling of plastic materials and reduce the amount of plastic in the residual waste as part of the work on the announced new strategy for the circular economy.’ Proposal No. 100 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting that the non-recoverable plastic packaging levy be levied equivalent to the one introduced in the EU. The fee should stimulate the use of recycled and renewable plastic raw material.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3538	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 101 to 104, 106 to 108 and 110 to 115, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 101 sounds: ‘The government is asking for and introducing instruments to stimulate more sustainable meat production based on the use of local resources and to report back to the Stortinge in the context of the agricultural negotiations.’ Proposal No. 102 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals for support schemes to stimulate more green production in Norway in the context of the agricultural negotiations.’ Proposal No. 103 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting in the context of the agricultural negotiations with proposals for the distortion of support schemes from imported feed materials for increased use of pasture pastures.’ Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to improve the agricultural emission accounts.’ Proposal No. 106 sounds: ‘The Government is asking to ensure that raw material is prioritised for feed where possible and that raw material that cannot be used for feed is used for energy production and returned to the Stortinge in the context of the agricultural negotiations.’ Proposal No. 107 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of manufacturing and retail leadings that bring down the consumer’s food loss, such as improved packaging solutions and smaller packaging.’;» Proposal No. 108 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and put in place measures to reduce the use of soya and return to the Grand Duchy with proposals in the context of the State budget.’ Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the food waste law drawn up by the government obligates the entire value chain to prevent food waste and that participation in the sectoral food waste agreement is made compulsory for all relevant sectors of the industry.’ Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures in the agricultural sector that contribute to energy efficiency improvement and reduce emissions in construction and agricultural machinery to be supported by Enova.’ Proposal No. 112 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure better sustainability in agriculture through increased subsidies for the use of pastures, set-aside, climate adaptation and investment in soil.’ Proposal No. 113 sounds like: ‘The government is asking for good arrangements for industrial loans, grants and risk relief in the bioeconomy.’ Proposal No. 114 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to facilitate forest culture measures to ensure innovation, carbon capture and a future resource base for the industry and to develop a reward system that makes it profitable for farmers and forest owners to operate so as to increase natural carbon storage in soil.’ Proposal No. 115 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a national target and a strategy to increase natural carbon storage in all sectors, Norwegian nature and landscape.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3619	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 105 and 109, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 105 sounds: ‘The government is asking for some reward systems for increasing carbon storage on individual farms in Norway to mobilise farmers who want to contribute and return to the Stortinge in the context of the agricultural negotiations.’ Proposal No. 109 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit an annual report to the Storting on measures to reduce emissions in the agricultural sector, which includes measures that are not captured by the official emission accounts.’ Red has announced support for the proposals. The centre party has announced subsidized support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3646	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 79-82 and 84-97, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that municipalities place high emphasis on climate considerations in municipal activities.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop methods and tools that make it easy for municipalities to assess and implement measures that contribute to reducing emissions.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipal greenhouse gas accounts are further developed into an even better tool for municipalities.’ Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the development of the climate budget by municipalities so that they can set specific and binding climate targets and develop better emission reporting mechanisms.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate through the legislation that municipalities ensure that green and cosy streets and urban spaces contribute to flood management in response to climate change.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure more accurate climate statistics for municipalities, which will be published in the following calendar year.’ Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to continue the Climate Action subsidy scheme until 2030, at least at the same level as in 2020.’ Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater emphasis to be placed on nature and climate considerations in the Law on Planning and Building.’ Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make adequate representations to the municipalities to make full use of the possibilities to make climate change requirements in regulatory plans in order, inter alia, to ensure fossil-free and post-emission-free construction sites.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a requirement that all State construction and transport activities, etc., should be carried out by the government. shall become fossil-free.’» Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government in the action plan for an increase in the share of climate-friendly public procurement, introduce requirements for all state activities to be fossil-free, and set time targets for the country’s own activities to be emission-free. The plan must be designed in such a way that the most environmentally friendly suppliers are presented in competition for a public service mission.’;» Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is requesting the labelling of all components of construction so that the components can be reused.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reconsider the authority of the municipality to require fossil-free and zero-emission construction site and, if it is not, to make necessary adjustments to the Planning and Building Act so that municipalities can make such a requirement.’;» Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is also asking for pilots to be launched at zero-emission construction sites in the transport sector.’; Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the country enters into agreements with industry with its own annual percentage points for the reduction of new raw materials.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new buildings and installations to be built with climate-friendly materials and designed for low energy consumption and re-use, and for building sites to be emission-free.’ Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The government is asking for consumers and purchasers to be informed of the amount of resources used to create a product, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions involved, any harmful pollutants and the working conditions of the producers of products.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asking for concrete tools for Norway’s implementation of 8 to 10 new fishing facilities by 2030.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3753	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59–78, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the measures to facilitate zero-emission vehicles throughout the country and to strengthen their capacity to charge without fixed parking in the cities.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals in the context of the revised national budget 2021 on how we can increase the sale of electric boats in the leisure segment.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the municipal greenhouse gas accounts are further developed into an even better tool for municipalities.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review and strengthen the Planning and Building Act and the underlying regulations as climate tools and encourage municipalities to set climate requirements in regulatory plans.’ Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities that it wishes are allowed to charge payments on private parking areas as well.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new targeted cooperation programme between the state and the major cities for the use and development of new instruments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national electric transport plan in order to facilitate the predictability and targeting of the instruments, so that charging infrastructure, production and network capacity, and costs contribute to achieving the objective of electrification of the transport sector.’; Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the leasing legislation to ensure that different tax rules on the passenger car market and the industrial market do not hinder the achievement of the objective of zero-emissions for new cars by 2025.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is requesting that the government purchase zero-emission cars and smaller goods cars from no later than 2022 and return to Stortinget at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to revise the law on electricity tariffs in network rentals and installation contributions as soon as possible with a view to making high-speed charging commercially viable throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to discharge the commitments and to put in place a national support system for loading in housing laws and joint ventures.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up a concrete plan for the conversion to zero emissions on heavier vehicles.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and take action to increase the use of electric vans and trucks.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the introduction of zero-emission requirements for public purchases of passenger cars and light goods vehicles from 2022.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate cooperation with the largest cities to facilitate the introduction of zero-emission transport requirements in deliveries from 2022 for all transport operations where zero-emission vehicles are available.’ Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that palm oil and soya and other raw materials with a high deforestation risk are excluded from Norwegian biofuel policy.’ Proposal No. 75 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a comprehensive plan for the use of our scarce bio-resources, which shows how much can be harvested in a sustainable way, without weakening nature's absorption and storage of CO 2.» Proposal No. 76 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all use of biofuels to be advanced biofuels and not just ‘mainly’. In line with this, double counting of advanced biofuels is abolished.’» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that municipalities place high emphasis on climate considerations in municipal activities.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop methods and tools that make it easy for municipalities to assess and implement measures that contribute to reducing emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3870	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 51 and 52, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The Government requests temporary exemption from all aerodrome charges for electric aircraft’.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that electric aircraft are exempted from the passenger charge.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3892	There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assign the power to establish and determine the size of zero-emission zones to the municipalities, regardless of whether the roads are municipal, county or state. The zones shall be established in close dialogue with business and residents, as well as the State Road Administration and County Municipalities in cases where State and County Road Networks are affected.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e3907	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 41–47, 49, 50 and 53–58, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate smart energy use by requiring different types of heat sources and energy storage solutions, such as district heating, waste heat, battery and different types of thermal solutions, where appropriate.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present the plan for the release of 10 TWh in construction by 2030, at the latest in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government asks it to set a target of halving energy use in construction by 2050 and to take action to achieve this objective.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: «The government asks the government to ensure that at least 300 million. crowns are paid out to energy measures in households through Enova, until a concrete decommissioning plan for the use of energy in construction has been drawn up and approved by the Stortinget.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government requests that all urban bus services should operate on zero-emission solutions or biogas by 2028.’ Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement a national plan for electrification of the transport sector with targeted instruments that contribute to predictability and effective emission reduction.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a national electric transport plan and electrification strategy, as part of its national transport plan.» Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The government asks that non-resident vehicles performing commercial road freight transport must meet the requirements of euro standard 5 as a minimum, which will also apply to Norwegian registered cars.’ Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the efficient and attractive transport of goods by means of zero-emission trucks and to report back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Enova and Avinor draw up a plan to ensure that airports on the Short Track Network are ready to charge by 2025.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the county councils that are now responsible for the short-range network to be able to impose requirements on the use of low and zero-emission technologies on the short-range network when the technology is in place.’ Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to remedy and introduce a requirement for energy efficiency and zero emissions in all public procurement of air routes. Development contracts are used to help develop zero-emission solutions, such as in the ferry sector.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to pay for and introduce a CO 2 tax on the use of fuel in Norwegian airspace and between Norwegian airports.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The size asks the government to establish a escalating requirement for the use of 100 pst. biofuels in all aircraft transport in Norway in 2030.’» Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asking for binding agreements across administrative levels to also be introduced for small and medium-sized urban areas and agglomerations and requests that this be followed up in the forthcoming national transport plan.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4002	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 28, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased support for investments such as carbon capture and storage, sea wind, hydrogen, battery technology and green shipping, inter alia, by implementing a tax reform to make it more attractive to invest in climate-friendly industries.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop an ambitious national strategy for sea wind, which includes, among other things, investment in the Norwegian supplier industry, good regulation, attractive framework conditions for investment and close cooperation between Norway and the EU.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4024	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22–27, 29–32, 34 and 36–40, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government requests the further development of the traffic light system in the aquaculture industry with several environmental indicators, both lice level, escape and fish health, and assess any changes to the system to ensure that it is environmentally sound.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to work within the IMO to ensure zero emissions in global shipping’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government is asked to require public procurement to ensure the exploitation of the environmental benefits of maritime transport.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that county councils have predictable support for additional costs by setting low and zero emission requirements in ferry and fast boat and bus offers. The cost keys of the income system of the counties must be designed to cover the real costs of low and zero emissions for public transport in the counties.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a proposal for a change to the rules on network tariffs to make the use of shore-side electricity for ships in Norwegian ports profitable.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up a plan for solar power, hydropower, sea wind, wind power and biogas to be seen in the context of the need to upgrade the power grid in an overall renewable development plan.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a predictable and active ownership so that Statkraft becomes a spearhead in the development of renewable energy in Norway and internationally, becoming an industrial developer of green hydrogen and battery activities and attracts Norwegian suppliers abroad.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the development of modular construction and maintenance products and to require that a greater proportion of building materials are modular solutions that can be easily dismantled and reused.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop systems for using existing construction as material banks.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of climate requirements for materials in technical regulations, based on life cycle analyses.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the funds transferred from the network tariff to Enova as a whole are made available for energy measures in households through Enova’.» Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of a plus customer scheme where multi-dwelling houses can use self-produced electricity, at the latest before the submission of the State budget for 2022.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of regulatory barriers to solar power and locally produced electricity.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to remove restrictions on plus houses, housing laws and neighbourhood electricity.’ Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national action plan on energy efficiency in industry and transport.’ Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure a level of competence in the construction industry in order to exploit the potential for energy efficiency improvement in construction by: strengthening vocational training; assess whether more professions should be regulated and whether more clear requirements for professional competence should be laid down; assessed the functioning of the current system of extensive self-control and whether more use of independent third party control is appropriate’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4127	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy aimed at ensuring that all public tenders at construction sites in all construction projects are emission-free by 2025. The strategy must address a cost-sharing solution or funding model between the State and the municipality for any additional costs and involve an instrument that ensures a wide range of entrepreneurs.» The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4144	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–15, 17–21 and 33, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the climate targets are achieved through national emission cuts, without the purchase of allowances from the EU.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to make use of the option to carry out the one-off transfer of approximately 6 million tonnes of allowances to the non-quota sector.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to refrain from using bilateral agreements on the purchase of credits for the non-quota sector in EU countries as a substitute for emission reductions in Norway.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of the use of the instrument in the climate plan along the way and to adjust it, if necessary, in the light of Norway’s commitment to achieving the 2030 climate change target.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate the decarbonisation of all energy use in Norway. What can be electrified shall be electrified and other energy uses shall become emission free through, for example, hydrogen, ammonia or biomass.’;» Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that agencies such as the NVE and the Environment Directorate are engaged in the reform of the wind system in order to meet the need for a reduction in environmental pressure and stronger local anchoring.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the polluter-pays principle and for the need for effective greenhouse gas emissions to be accompanied by measures of maximum social and geographical justice for individuals, as well as measures enhancing the competitiveness of Norwegian business.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking how export businesses in the non-quota sector can be organised to facilitate migration support measures to compensate for any disadvantages of not being in the quota sector and to ensure that export enterprises in the non-quota sector reduce emissions while maintaining their competitiveness. enterprises in the quota sector.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asking for targeted action to be taken against the ships with the largest internal CO 2 emissions.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop sustainability indicators in the aquaculture industry that stimulate lower environmental and climate pressures from feed.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government requests that machine-readable product information and regulations be adapted to the standardised product data templates.’ [[DOC/TEK]] Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4218	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-7, 9 and 10, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan for the electrification of installations on a Norwegian base, a system for the capture and storage of CO 2 or other forms of carbon-neutral production.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a large-scale investment in Norwegian bioenergy and advanced biofuels in the transport sector and to submit a plan for a comprehensive and industrial value chain for the use of Norwegian bioresources.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and submit a plan for increasing carbon storage in soil and forest. Active forest management, grazing and use of grass resources, increased use of catch crops and bio-coal as soil improvement must be prioritised in such a plan.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to impose a charge on mineral fertilisers.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for grants for the extraction of municipal waste to stimulate the production of biodiesel and bioenergy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4257	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 8, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for binding agreements with the Marine Food Industry on the basis of the model of the agriculture climate agreement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental footprint, while contributing to the creation of more jobs along the Norwegian coast.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to impose a levy on Norwegian meat as a climate action.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4282	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an overview of the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement to exploit the space for action in order to ensure competitive framework conditions for new, large investments in the climate-friendly industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the tariff models for power are better suited to Norwegian industry and that reasonable and pure Norwegian power makes it attractive to establish new power-generating industries in Norway.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4306	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to develop a strategy for electrification and to return to Stortinget with it’. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e4321	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5094	It's written first over IV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5108	It shall be voted on I-III and V-XVII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5122	It shall be counted over XVIII–XXXIV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5136	It is voted over XXXV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5150	It is voted over XXXVII-LV. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5165	It shall be weighed over LVI to LXVII and LXX to LXXIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5179	It shall be weighed over LXXVII to LXXIX and LXXXI. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5193	It shall be weighed over LXXIV-LXVI and LXXX-XCII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5207	It shall be counted over XCFIII-CVIII and CX-CXIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5221	It is voted over CXIV-CXXXIII. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5236	CXXXIV-CXXXIX and CXLII-CXLVI shall be voted on. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5250	It is votted over LXVIII, LXIX and CXL.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5260	That's right. It's right over CIX. The right, the left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5274	It's being voted over CXLI. Right, Left, Christian People's Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5288	It's being voted over CXLVII.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5298	Case No. 14 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5310	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5330	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Jonny Finstad on behalf of Right and Left proposal No 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for access to change the permissible total vehicle weight without technical change to be extended also to vehicles above 7500 kg’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to derogate from the general rule on lateral and underrun protection of N3G vehicles.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5364	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to delegate the power to carry out the ADR control to approved heavy-duty garages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5379	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the right and left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to investigate the possibility of transferring authority to authorised heavy-duty car repair shops to carry out ADR checks.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5396	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5404	The Progress Party has notified subsidized aid to the recommendation. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5425	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Gisle Meininger Saudland on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Bengt Fasterale on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 3 and 4, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 5, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision partially rejects toll financing of the Transport Package for the Kristiansandsregion Phase 2 in Agder, cf. Prop. [[2020-2021]] 95 S and ask the Government to promote as soon as possible a new toll proposition for the Kristiansand region, with a recovery level in line with local decisions and the same recovery period as in Prop. [[2020-2021]] 95 S
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5455	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the State Road Administration assumes responsibility for all road development in the Kristiansand region.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5472	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to transfer the project E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen to Nye Weier AS. New Roads are asked to scale down the project as part of a comprehensive transport planning in Kristiansand. It is assumed that phase 2 of the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region is financed without the use of tolls.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5487	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. ‘The government asks the government to ensure a comprehensive transport planning in Kristiansand, where the development of the Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen and Outer Ringvej projects is seen in the context.’ The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5507	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the plans for the extension of Gartnerløkka be postponed by the Government until significant cuts have been made in existing plans.’ The Group of the Greens/European Progressive Democrats and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance has announced subsidiary support for the proposal. Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5526	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5545	The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5557	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5565	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5584	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, by Arne Nävra on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Socialist Left Party, Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the Ålgård Railway is maintained as part of the national network’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the start of reopening, construction and re-establishment of the Ålgårdbahn.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5614	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5622	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5634	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1 to 7 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5646	Case No. 1 is the third time that a legislative act has been dealt with and is subject to the rule of law 87, with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 8 April 2021. It is therefore contested by the legislative decision with the adopted remark from the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5658	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5667	Case No. 2 is the second reading of legislative proposals and applies to the legislative decision 91. There are no comments. Thus, the law of the Storting has been passed on the second time and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5681	The Committee had decided to refer the following decisions to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5781	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5791	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5804	During the debate, Mr Engen-Helgheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the achievement of the objectives of the funds used for the area action and to examine whether the funds are used for the desired purpose.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5819	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5860	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5879	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan of incentives through the House Bank to increase accessibility and universal design in the housing market.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e5898	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose changes to the Planning and Building Act and/or other legislation to ensure that dwellings built for the own market cannot be sold to commercial landlords.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6362	Alternatively, I § 31-4 and proposal No. 1 from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 27 June 2008 No 71 on planning and processing of construction works is amended as follows: Paragraphs 31-4 are replaced by the following: § 31-4 Access of the municipality to grant full or partial exemption from requirements In the case of measures under Section 20-1 on existing construction works, the municipality may grant partial or total exemption from technical requirements if it is assessed as sound in terms of safety, health, environment and universal design. In the assessment, the municipality shall focus on the following: a) age of the construction works, formal protection status, type, purpose, location, duration of the operation and current technical condition; (b) conditions which may reduce the negative consequences of the granting of an exemption; (c) benefits resulting from the action. In the light of the considerations to be taken into account by the law, the municipality may impose conditions which may reduce the disadvantages or adverse effects of the authorisation. The Ministry may provide for the right of the municipality to grant authorisation after the first subparagraph.’;» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6399	It is votered over in § 11-9 nr. 5 and § 12-7 nr. 2 and III § 49, second paragraph, new point (g). The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6414	A new second, third and fourth sentence is added to Section III of the second paragraph of Section 25. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6430	Because of the similarity of votes, the President will propose that the Stortinget vote on this matter in a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The other paragraphs of paragraphs I, II and III shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6442	As a result of the similarity of votes in the second paragraph of Section III, paragraph 25, new second, third and fourth sentences will be voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6454	The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6474	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on important EU and EEA matters, held at the Storting meeting on 8 April 2021, be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6504	The President proposes that Document 8:202 S be dealt with under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (e), i.e. that it be rejected. The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6511	We disagree with that recommendation from the President and propose that the matter be dealt with in the Committee on Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6516	SV also supports the committee's consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6521	In fact, here I disagree with the President, so I too would advise the representatives of the Workers' Party to send the matter to committee for consideration, i.e. support the Hoksrud proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6526	Several have not asked for the word. The procedure for document 8:202 S is then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6806	Then Stortinget goes back to the processing of today's map, and we are on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox The next speaker is Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6811	It's not just Oslo that needs new hospital buildings. Many of the other health establishments in the South-East are planning to develop. This applies, inter alia, to: The Hospital Telemark, which is to build a new somatic building and radiation centre in the Ski. The construction plans in Oslo are so expensive and so costly with such a high economic risk that it can, of course, quickly go beyond the necessary hospital buildings in other parts of the eastern part of the country. The planned expansion of Oslo University Hospital is, first of all, unnecessaryly expensive. The total investment cost is calculated at around 50 billion. kr. A group of independent professionals has shown that it is possible to reduce investment costs by 20 billion. rather by further developing Ullevål hospitals. The reason is that the construction plans in Health South-East involve the demolition of large building masses of new and well-functioning hospital buildings on Ullevål, which have to be replaced by new buildings elsewhere. This is money that could have been spent on hospitals otherwise in the region. Secondly, it is unlikely that the construction plans will pay off financially, as Health South-East assumes. Of the total investment costs, 70 pst. as a loan. The rest of the amount is equity with which Health South-East must hold, and this equity is saved by all hospitals in the region. When Health South-East claims that the construction plans will pay off financially, it is because they assume that the operation at Oslo University Hospital will be significantly more efficient, both during the construction period and after the construction is completed. In this way, it is expected that the operation at Oslo University Hospital will go with several billion dollars in profits annually after the construction is completed. But history shows that Oslo University Hospital has set itself many optimistic future goals of efficiency and operating surplus before, and they haven't turned on. Employee organisations have no faith that the hospital will achieve the annual billion profits planned. So if the Oslo construction project eats off the savings for the whole of Health South-East, and if you don't get the profits planned for the calculation to go up, the whole region will be left with less capital for new hospital investments. This may lead to the exposure of the necessary hospital buildings or to their being built too small. We have already seen the consequences of new hospitals being built too small from day one, among other things. in Eastfold and Akershus. We cannot repeat the same error with the Hospital Telemark or any of the other hospital facilities that are in line in the South and East.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6822	Many of the representatives before me have spoken well about the proposals currently under consideration. I want to say a little about the matter in general, and about Oslo. I have said that before, and I say it again: it should have been a big cause for happiness – for the citizens of Oslo, for the politicians, and not least for health professionals in Oslo – that large new hospital investments are planned for many billions in Oslo. Because it's necessary, all of us who live in the Grorud valley know that. We know that which has been placed on Ullevål, and has been born there, for that matter – that the building mass is insanely worn out. But despite that, the opposition to the plans of government and health in the South-East is very great. It's large among the employees, it's cross-politically large in the affected districts, and it's large in Oslo City Council, which has opposed these plans. It is obvious that there is a significant regulatory risk here, and I am still wondering what is really the plan of the Workers' Party and the Right, whether to push through these huge investments against the will of the population and overrun Oslo in such a kind of case. One thing is to accept regulatory risk, but when it's also about so much economic and financial risk, I have to say that I am amazed at what is going to be governing parties in Norwegian politics, because here it's about such an expensive project, with so many unknown variables in the future, and as one still sees – for every year that goes, and for every debate we have – at all times changes, and new uncertainties emerge. In the case of these plans linked to the Gaustad expansion, there are some parallels to the plans of the government for the government quarter. I am reasonably sure that in a few years' time we will see that we have gone away from such unprofessional construction plans with such a large price tag. Some words in conclusion about Aker: I am very pleased that the Stortinget together can establish that Aker will be a full-fledged local hospital for the whole of Groruddalen. But the question is what kind of consequences this has for the other plans that Health South-East has. I expect it to be followed up, so that there will be a connection and consistency between the plans for hospital development in Oslo, and the Stortinget's decision on Aker today. In conclusion: Oslo City Council has opposed these plans, and it is also a drag from the government parties in Oslo, such as Left, which was also clear on the platform here today that SV and other parties must vote against the regulation case at Gaustad. We're going to do that, but I encourage them to take that fight in government, too, so we let go of these rounds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6837	It is incredibly important to ensure a better hospital offer for people in Oslo and Oslo, as in Akershus. It is incredibly important, and there is a need to secure new investment. Just having a large and growing population, we need to take care of the hospitals we have, and we need to develop them for the future. We have to take care of Ullevål hospitals and the professional community that you have there, the trauma environment that you have there. We have to make sure that Aker Hospital is developed as a local hospital for the whole of the Grorud Valley, so that one can also relieve the capacity of Ahus, who has been blown up today, and one has to make sure to scrape the plans for a giant hospital in Gaustad. These are plans that meet massive resistance both from the trade union community, from those directly affected, from the trust-elected and from the locals in Oslo and the areas around Oslo, who also see what the gigantic development here in Oslo can mean for them. It was a pleasure to note the Workers' Party earlier today, who announced that they would vote in favour of proposal No. 1, which does not permit the sale of Ullevål empt before after stage 2. But after hearing the representative, Kjerkol, I must nevertheless say that I am left with a very big question: Is this just a purely technicality, or does it mean a reality in terms of how the Workers' Party intends to deal with this matter? What is important is not only to ensure that one does not take these sales decisions now, it is also to ensure that one gets figured out other alternatives, just as it is contained in the proposal from us, and that the Workers' Party should also give its support if it is really willing to go down from its high horse and join in looking at other solutions than those that are on the table now. To the Council of State, who says that he is well pleased with what came from the planning and building stage in Oslo: The plan and the building stage have now been clear for many months, only in June last year, that the plans as they then existed were not good enough. Also, what was put out now suggests that the plans are not good enough for now, that you cannot say that this is something you can join after a hearing. One of the reasons for this is, among other things, what the director of the planning and building kit himself said to the NRK yesterday: ‘It is such that this site has limitations in terms of what we can achieve through development.’ So here, a boat has to scrape the plans for the giant expansion in Gaustad, take care of Ullevål for the future, get a local hospital in Groruddalen for the whole of Groruddalen and provide investigation planning in line with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6859	The development of Oslo University Hospital is not currently decided. Yesterday, the planning and building kit in Oslo sent the proposal for a regulatory plan at Gaustad to the public. There is no doubt that the regulatory risk is significant. With my experience of eight years as chairman of the Oslo Urban Development Committee, and also as former Oslo City Council, I would say that the regulatory risk is insurmountable. With a population of 55 metres plus, the proposal is unacceptable, because it appears to be a wall with too high a height – it does for the local environment, and it gives violent remote effects – that no other actor would be allowed to build in Oslo. It is too close to the peaceful settlement of Gaustad, and there will also be a wall up to 52 meters up to 20 meters from the Gaustad Basin, with other walls and groundfills that are even closer. I am absolutely sure that the Left, but also a majority of the City Council, will vote against this proposal. It is true that the planning and building kit mentioned that a higher building could be preferable to this proposal, but it was a proposal that they had previously said they were ready to say no to. They're both unacceptable. I cannot see how the other plans can be operated forward without changes as long as there are so many uncertainties about a regulation plan at Gaustad. I can't see how to adjust this plan either, because there are too large areas to enter on too small a plot. Like all other builders, Health South-East must deal with Oslo as a regulatory authority. In this case, and for the left, there will be 100 pst. not applicable with a State regulatory plan. I'm assuming that also applies to the other parties. Here you have to follow the regulatory authority in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6872	In the Stortinget on Tuesday, 9 March, during an interpellation debate, the Council of State Höie said that «the building mass of Ullevål is very much destroyed». I stumbled a little over that statement, and I drew up the Health South-East report on Ullevål as an alternative, which came in 2019, where they looked at that option. It says that 97 000 m 2, i.e. almost 100,000 m 2, are usable, rehabilitated premises that can be used well for hospital operations. I believe that it is not a cover for the statement that it is very much damaged. We believe it is right to use that part of Ullevål which is good premises, build on it and develop Ullevål further both as a local hospital and as an emergency hospital. If we can do that, the question and the uncertainty about whether Groruddalen's urban areas can be transferred to the new Aker hospital, if they will have room there, will resolve. These districts could be prioritised in Aker if the local hospital of Ullevål is not closed, but will continue with emergency reception and other services there. I have also asked Health South-East whether Oslo will need a new local hospital once after 2035 because of population growth. If those who now belong to Ahus are to be transferred to Oslo, the districts that belong to Ahus, and we estimate that population growth is approx. 10 000 per year in Oslo in the years to come – it was at 14,000 last year for which figures are available – there will therefore be 265,000 more in the patient base of Oslo University Hospital in 2035. Then a new local hospital is needed. When Ullevål lies there and has such a large proportion of well-kept premises and the state council even on questions in the lines instead said that it was not necessary to discuss the sale of Ullevål now, that there is something you will come back to once in the future, so that there was no problem that the Workers' Party now voted in favour of paragraph 1 of the proposal, there is even less reason for it. In the funding plan for Oslo University Hospital projects, which we have been presented before, Ullevål is a key element in financing. If it is now not decisive in the same way – if you do not depend on that sale – it is even more strange that you do not want to use Ullevål in the future. I hope that this can now have consequences, so that we investigate alternative plans and build on Ullevål in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6887	I take the floor for a brief explanation of vote on the loose proposal by Mr Redt. We're not going to support it. But as I also said in the reply with the Council of State, we expect thorough assessments to be made as to whether it is right not to retain any mental health protection or multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment at Gaustad in the further work on the project. Then I just want to make a comment, because it's too tempting not to. We need to discuss towers and infectious diseases. But the tower in Gaustad over which people are so provoked – and more representatives also in this room – is measured to some and forty meters. In Aker, it is planned for a building almost twice as high, with a helicopter landing site. We need to discuss heights, and we need to discuss infectious diseases, but we also need to be factual. This is the special offer to the locals, and we assume that this will be done according to an updated professional standard for 2021 and beyond, not too many decades ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6894	We have also had another big case on Majorstua, which was not discussed properly in the storeroom. It was the sale of NRK Marienlyst. It was the same logic that we have now seen in Health South-East planning for the construction of a new Oslo University Hospital. Premise is to sell large government properties to finance new, large state construction projects. From the point of view of the Centre Party, it is strange that we, as society and state, should think like this in terms of new developments. First, when you think of NRK Marienlyst: it's the board itself that decides when to sell, even though it's a historically important building with great peculiarity, it's the board itself that decides in a way where the money that is then released from a large state property is to be placed and invested in Oslo. We know that it's going to be one of the biggest new public development projects in the capital region. The same goes for Oslo University Hospital, which operates the public sector as if it were a private enterprise. Although there is now a majority to stop the sale, it is basically the premise of the health company model that it is necessary to sell the Ullevål plot to finance a new hospital. Just as if the Norwegian State has a capital deficit. I think we as societies have organized us very strangely when important political decisions are transferred to a NRK government, in the case of Marienlyst, or to a corporate government, in the case of Oslo University Hospital. One sees it particularly well when it comes to the discussion of Ullevål, because there's a majority in the city council who don't want you to lay down today's Ullevål and sell the plot to build a new hospital. The elected majority in Oslo does not want that. I also notice, cf. The previous speaker from the Labour Party says that the local state does not want it. What is paradoxical about the entire health company model is that a former official, Svein Gedrem, should have greater power than Oslo City Council. That is why the whole discussion about how to organise the hospital sector in the future is very important, because it is about who we think should make that kind of decision in Norway. Are politicians responsible for elections, or are they officials and officials in different governments? With the model that now lies there, Svein Gedrem and others have more power than the elected ones. We believe that an unwise decision should be made when laying down the well-functioning, heavy environment on Ullevål, reducing bed capacity, and – are we afraid – we have not learned from the mistakes that have been made, for example. on Kalnes, where undersized construction was initially built and has had many challenges in retrospect. That is why I hope that the Workers' Party – I see it is a small step in the right direction today – will take even more steps until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6905	The case spokesperson stated in his speech that there were extensive arrangements behind today's plans, which the Council of State has also said several times. It is not correct. When the planned structure was proposed for the first time – it was in the idea phase of the OUS of the Future: Concreteization after consultation – what came in him, never on a ring, was in spite of the dramatic change in the hospital structure in Oslo that had never been mentioned before. The State Council itself has stated in Dagens Medisin that this plan, which is Norway's largest land-based construction project, is not as good as other state projects, but that this is unproblematic, since the Storting is not going to decide on investment projects in the hospital sector. It's so crazy. The morbidity decision of 2016 thus shows the undemocratic nature of the health service model – that the hospital structure in Norway’s capital is not worthy of political treatment until a decision is taken. And about the distribution – even the board of Health South-East stated in case 072-2017: ‘The Board points out that there is an implementation risk associated with the localisation options and asks that there is no exclusion of alternative locations within the land areas of Oslo University Hospital HF if the risk picture warrants this.’ What the Storting has taken up is pointed out many times, including from the health care agency itself. There's one reason why we're here five times since 2018, and that's because this isn't good enough, that the decisions are made on a failed basis, and that the plans don't have confidence. So the question is what the Labour Party actually means when they support the proposal not to sell Ullevål, because in the long-term economic plan this is inside. And it turns out that they realize that this is going to be 7 billion. In the case of income, and where one supports that proposal without supporting the other proposal in the vote, it is at best a little incomprehensible. It is also used as an argument for disseminating professionals to other parts of the country, but there is no evidence for that claim. Patients do not disappear, and there is a greatest risk that this project will steal economic resources from other parts of the country. Otherwise it was interesting to put the right left's argument here today, which is completely in line with what the centre party thinks in this matter, but they're in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6944	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6951	The Committee has examined a proposal to ensure continued capacity for the treatment and rehabilitation of pulmonary diseases in Granheim Pulmonary Disease. The State Council, Bent Höie, delivered an opinion on the document and received 37 written submissions. The Council of State writes that the changes in the offer are justified by professional development, economic gain and land retention, and that there will be fewer beds for daily rehabilitation after the offer is moved to Lillehammer Hospital. Many have expressed great dissatisfaction and resistance to the changes. I think I'm talking on behalf of all of us when I say that every time there's a proposed change, relocation or termination of something in the specialist health service, there's a lot of resistance. Actually, we should be happy about that, because it reminds us that many people have received decisive and good help in health care, and many are very happy about it. At the same time, it is demanding to be in the gap between patients, employees and relatives telling us, and what those who are put in charge of the health care as best they can tell us. In such cases, we are always faced with arguments such as professional development, professionally sound needs and economics – arguments that may be demanding to stand up to, that may be demanding to be verified, and that often give you the nagging feeling that we are now removing something that is good, without feeling sure that the new is getting better. At least I feel it often like this. And that's how I feel about this case as well. The Committee refers to the consultation recordings of the municipality of Lom, the municipality of Gausdal and the municipality of Gudbrandsdalstinget, where the municipalities affected by the changes in the offer express concern about the future treatment and rehabilitation of chronic lung disease patients in the Inland. These consultation bodies believe that municipalities today lack the capacity and competence to handle this patient group in a good way. The Committee considers that it must be a priority task to ensure that residence is not essential for the availability and quality of the rehabilitation offer given to each individual. The Committee is also concerned that a reduction in the provision of rehabilitation services in the specialist healthcare system requires municipalities to be able to take over the follow-up of these patients at the same time. Today, Granheim Pulmonary Hospital offers 24-hour rehabilitation and pulmonary outpatient clinics and is part of the specialist health service at the Hospital Inland. Chronic lung disease patients are a large group of patients, with a need for coordinated and comprehensive services, which benefit greatly from rehabilitation, and lung rehabilitation for patients with chronic pulmonary disease can help reduce the number of emergencies. The plans for the closure and transfer of the offer to Lillehammer Hospital have created uncertainty and unforeseeability for both patients and the professional community. However, the Committee notes that the plans to shut down Granheim Pulmonary Disease and to resuscitate the offer during the spring of 2021 are now being postponed by reference to the ongoing pandemic and that the Hospital Inland will carry out an evaluation of the need for specialised lung rehabilitation when the pandemic is over. Further process shall be determined in the spring of 2023. I expect the other parties themselves to explain their views on the matter. The party initially wanted to support the proposal to maintain the operations of the Granheim lung hospital, but refers to the press release from the Hospital Inland, where it appears that the transfer of the lung rehabilitation from Granheim to the hospital in Lillehammer was postponed for a minimum of two years. The delay is justified by the fact that the pandemic lasts longer than initially assumed and that it is uncertain how much need for rehabilitation and treatment will be needed for people who have had covid-19. The Inland Hospital shall evaluate the need when the pandemic is over and the process of relocating the lung habilitation is put on hold until the evaluation is completed. The Progress Party considers this to be a sensible decision and assumes that there will be a thorough evaluation of the need for rehabilitation and treatment for pulmonary disease in the region following the pandemic. We also assume that in the run-up to a final decision, we will maintain the operation and not allow time to pick today's offer from each other slowly, but safely. However, in the last few days we have been given clear signals that this is exactly what is happening, and the Progress Party has therefore promoted a loose proposal to ensure that today's operations continue as a minimum over the next two years. With that, I present the Committee's position and take up the Advance Party's resolve on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6974	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6979	What do all these organisations and businesses have in common – the Norwegian Association of Nurses, the Norwegian Association of Lung Medicine, the Inland County Council, several teams of the National Association of Heart and Pulmonary Diseases, the Norwegian Association of Asthma and Allergy, the Gudbrandsdalstinget and municipalities such as Lom and Gausdal – as also mentioned by the Advocate General – and also Gausdal Revmatikerforening and a number of individuals? Well, what they have in common, and in common with us – and I think we are red-green – is a significant concern for the negative consequences of the closure of Granheim lung disease in Gausdal. Naturally, employees' organisations and employees at Granheim share the same and strong concerns. They indicate that employees report that they will stop and that others with special competence have already ceased. In recent years there has been a steady downscaling of the offer, from 38 to 15 beds in four years. Everyone understands that it would have been very unwise to put down the offer as originally planned now, in the midst of a very demanding pandemic, but the more should have understood, is that such a uniquely complex environment of the highest professional quality for common lung disease needs predictability now, not just promises for a few years of life, based on covid-19. If we are to secure this hospital with so many good patient stories and a burning commitment, we must ensure that the professionals stay there and do not retreat because of the uncertainty. Granheim belongs to the future. That is why we are promoting red-green proposals where we are asking the government to ensure that the activities of Granheim Pulmonary Disease are maintained and extended in order to address the need for treatment and rehabilitation of pulmonary diseases. I wish the Progress Party had gone further in supporting this than what Kønaas Kjos, who was the case rapporteur, had just said. We cannot accept that narrow hospital budgets where the Progress Party has long-standing and great co-responsibility should lead to imminent threats to the closure of a health service where Health-Norway shows its very best to vulnerable patients. We fear that the Inland County Municipality is right when they point to the fact that moving to the Hospital Inland will lead to a significant reduction in daily space for patients in need of lung rehabilitation, while unfortunately the need for rehabilitation is likely to increase as a result of the coronary epidemic. We also have to keep in mind the many carbon spaces. We need more places like this, not fewer -- we need Granheim. Finally, I am going to present proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV, to which I just referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6994	The representative Tore Hagebakken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e6999	Initially, the Hospital Inland and Health South-East are responsible for providing the necessary specialist health services to the domestic population. This also applies to pulmonary patients. Thus, it is initially not the Stortinget that should regulate in detail how this should be organised. But now there is a proposal on how to organise the treatment of lung patients in the country of origin. The discussion about Granheim and lung patients in this healthcare company has been going on for some time. Last year the board of Health Inland decided to move the offer at Granheim Pulmonary Disease, not because the offer has to go away, but to move it to new premises with close proximity to other hospital services. The company justified the fact that the change would allow for high-quality treatment, where a wide-ranging rehabilitation team could cooperate with other professional competences at the Hospital Inland. So there's work going on to further develop and adapt the facilities in the premises that are available at Lillehammer. The aim is to provide a differentiated daily, day and outpatient rehabilitation service that best meets patients’ needs for mastering. While we have been examining this proposal, the board of directors of the Inland Hospital has decided to postpone the move. It seems reasonable to do so – it seems wrong to make such a change within the lung area in the middle of a pandemic. The hospital will also carry out an evaluation of the need for specialised lung treatment when the pandemic is over. The further process shall be determined in the spring of 2023. We believe that the offer needs to be adapted to the need for specialised treatment of pulmonary diseases, but we believe it would be unfortunate if the Storting should provide detailed guidance on how the offer should be organised in the future. However, there is reason to encourage consideration that the coronary apathy can provide more patients with lung damage and an increased need for rehabilitation throughout the country. Much argues that there is a use for the capacity that exists, and more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7012	This is a proposal made by the Center Party. It deals with the provision of patients to a large group of patients, with a high need for both coordinated and holistic provision, and with a very high need for rehabilitation. Rehabilitation can be seen as the treatment it tolerates, which allows them to avoid acute entries. Otherwise, we know that this patient group has a very high risk of becoming swing door spacers – in and out of emergency facilities, with rapid deterioration – so rehabilitation for patients with chronic obstructive lung disease, coal, is a priority. It's a patient group that doesn't shout the highest, but it'll be very affected if good treatment is dropped. Then it is that at Granheim this has been a process over several years, where the health care company has not favoured the villa Granheim lung hospital. They have experienced continuous cuts in the budgets as to the size of the bed. Now it's been so marginalized that it's about being or not being for this professional environment. There was talk of moving to Lillehammer, with only eight to ten beds left. But this has been postponed over and over again. The reason why we're making this proposal is that we want to take care of both the professional community and the patient supply. What is important in order to achieve this is to create security and security of supply. Granheim will not tolerate any more cuttings. They are no longer tolerable. They need security. It applies to both patients and professionals who must be able to recruit, and to remain in supply. Therefore, there are not enough press releases from the health care agency for us. There will be another release, with the suggestion that we've got a pandemic that could lead to the need for more lung rehabilitation. But that's not good enough. We cannot wait for another evaluation of this offer. Now Granheim's hospital needs to be prioritised. That's what I mean The Storting could be stuck today, if we'd got the Prom on the team. I refer to the proposal: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the activities of Granheim Pulmonary Disease are maintained and extended in order to address the need for the treatment and rehabilitation of pulmonary diseases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7024	We don't have enough rehabilitation in the country. There are good people trying to help, like the people at Granheim, but the capacity is so small that many people don't get the help they need. The Health Directorate's report slaughters rehabilitation in Norway and the majority voted against SV's proposal for a national plan for rehabilitation. Now we've got a new group of long-term illness after covid-19. I have addressed this several times in cases in the Chamber and in connection with the State budget. Finally, the government tells them to make a plan – over a year after the pandemic hit Norway. We know that several pulmonary diseases need rehabilitation, and that Granheim is important to many lung patients. Pulmonary patients have been fighting to secure the Granheim offer through predictability and long-termity. We could have had a majority to save and strengthen Granheim, but the Progress Party is failing on the rise side. Granheim is not guaranteed by a decision taken by a magnificence, said the Kari Kjønaas Kjos of the Progress Party. Well, Granheim can be secured by a big decision if the Progress Party wants to, but the Progress Party is failing they're lung disease. Patients expect long-term and predictability, but instead they get two years of uncertainty. It is worth noting that the government batches produce the situation as follows: ‘the board of directors of the Hospital Inland asks to be presented with a case in the spring of 2023 to review the time of the move.’ [[...]] Then the cats got out of the bag: there is a time for movement as the government parties, and now the Advance Party, will assess in two years. The relocation – or otherwise: closure – of Granheim lung disease house is already a premise. The lung disease, and those with long-term illness after covid-19, need long-term care and good health care, but instead they get two years of continued uncertainty. I'm addressing proposal No. 3, on behalf of the Red and Socialist Left Party. We shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7050	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7055	For many years, there has been a discussion on how to ensure a good offer to lung patients in the Inland region and on whether Granheim will be part of this offer in the future. In October 2020, the board of directors of the Inland Hospital decided to move the offer of the Granheim Pulmonary Hospital to Lillehammer Hospital, and on 1 June 2021 was set as a possible date for relocation. These plans do not imply that the provision of pulmonary patients should be reduced, but moved to new premises with close proximity to other important medical services. Co-location shall contribute to closer cooperation, better transition between emergency treatment and rehabilitation and ensure good and rapid availability for supervision and treatment in the event of disease deterioration. The plans to shut down Granheim Pulmonary Disease and to move the offer during 2021 have now been postponed by the Board of Directors of the Hospital Inland on a proposal from the Executive Director with reference to the ongoing pandemic. It is clear from the Governing Council Decisions of 18 March 2021 that the Hospital Inland will carry out an evaluation of the need for specialised lung rehabilitation at the end of the pandemic and that further process will be determined in the spring of 2023. Several municipalities in the interior are concerned about the future provision of treatment and rehabilitation for chronic pulmonary disease patients in the interior. They believe that the municipalities today lack the capacity and competence to handle this patient group in a good way. The Government's plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation describes that municipalities will in the future assume greater responsibility for the provision of rehabilitation services to their population. This is important in order to ensure that citizens are given a more detailed offer where they live, where appropriate to the individual. In the National Guide to Rehabilitation, habilitation, individual level and coordinator, coal and other common lung diseases are specifically mentioned as examples of diseases where municipalities should have the primary responsibility for rehabilitation. However, the local and specialist health services will continue to cooperate where there is a need for specialised competence in order to identify and monitor patients’ functional levels and rehabilitation options, or to initiate intensive training. The Hospital Inland and Health South-East are responsible for providing the necessary specialist health services to the domestic population and for ensuring a good range of lung services in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7074	I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees the point we have, that having a longer time perspective, a couple of years, will be of great importance in securing professionals and recruiting at a stage where it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7079	I agree that it would be beneficial for stability to clarify this issue, because this is a discussion that has been going on for a long time. But then there are conditions that make the board think it would be wrong to implement this now, and that one should wait something and look at the need that may come as a consequence of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7084	If we in the Workers' Party, which has also been signalled by SV, together with the Centre Party, should we choose to be a secondary party to the proposals of the Progress Party, can the Council of State guarantee a minimum of two years? And beyond two years, what is the perspective, as the Council of State sees it today? Here the answer can be quite decisive with regard to the first question I asked, about the predictability, which is so necessary for the employees, for the specialists and not least for the patients, who realize that they might need for the rest of their lives an offer à la Granheim, which is unique in the national context of their construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7089	As I see the decision now, this offer will be there for at least two more years, as it is now, because there is further process to be resolved in the spring of 2023. Then you want to make a further process. So the short answer to the representative's question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7094	Will the Council of State guarantee that there will be no further degradation? Because there has been a significant downsizing, as I said in my post, in four years. Can the Council of State guarantee that there will be no further degradation in that period of at least two years – and I underline the minimum? We have read this proposal and we see that there is a difference in what has been adopted in the Inland Hospital, and what the Progress Party also proposes here, which we far from thinking is as good as what we added, but in a situation where we want to stop the fear of closure, we see that we then get a majority, probably.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7099	The decision of the Hospital Inland Board is that they will carry out an evaluation of the need for specialised lung treatment when the pandemic is over, and the pandemic is not over, unfortunately. Then they have said that the further process is to be determined in the spring of 2023. I want to be careful to provide the kind of guarantees on «offer», because I know that any position then is used in such a discussion, and is used as proof that such a guarantee is broken or not. That's why I don't give that kind of guarantees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7104	We've learned a lot now, that many of those who get coronary disease have long-term effects. Many of them have problems with their lungs. Erna Solberg said from the pulpit that the government was going to make a plan for rehabilitation after covid-19. Then I would like to know, when is this plan coming? We've been waiting over a year to get it. It's very good that it's coming, but when is it coming? We know that it is very important to get rehabilitation quickly, because if you wait many months, it is very difficult to get well again. So I hope it comes very quickly, and then I'd like to ask, when is the plan for rehabilitation after covid-19?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7109	It's a little surprising if you've been waiting over a year, because it's probably barely a year since we got the pandemic to Norway. But it is absolutely right that the Health Directorate is working on establishing a national plan for rehabilitation after covid-19. I see that works well, alongside a lot of other work. This is an area where we get a lot of new knowledge, really almost every day. But the government is going through the directorate to establish a plan for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7114	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7121	When we read the answer to the committee from the Council of State, it is a rather typical answer, where the Council of State does not really go out and think anything about this important offer, but assumes that Health South-East takes care of its responsibilities. The Council of State refers to the phasing-out plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which provides for municipalities to take greater responsibility for the provision of rehabilitation. The evaluation report for this escalation plan has now come to an end and, in actual fact, the escalation plan has been cancelled, it is described as a back-up scheme and not as a real recovery plan. This case also has meaning for the Inland, I think, when the healthcare company plans to reduce bed capacity and transfer responsibility to the municipalities, so that there will be a very poor offer again in the specialist services of this large patient group. That's what I think is unacceptable professionally, and I could wish that one had a political leadership that was more clear on what they wanted in this matter. Now, when we hear the line change here today, there are no guarantees from the Council of State that if the loose proposal from the Progress Party is adopted, there will be any guarantee from him, so that's our dilemma today. If the Progress Party has not changed now – and supports our proposal that will ensure further operation and not await another review – we will have to vote for a loose proposal. Now there are two loose proposals that are being made. In my opinion, Red and SV are clearly the best and the most obvious. I have understood that the Progress Party will not support it either. Then we were left with the proposal of the Progress Party, to ensure that the offer ‘as a minimum is maintained at the same level as today’. It's unguaranteed by the Council of State, but it's a suggestion. We have experience from some other proposals in this room, I am thinking about Kristiansund and the food department there, which show that the Council of State is very rarely going in and making real decisions when we make such decisions – if there are no «in the long term» decisions and an evaluation that will take place in the future. These are my concerns about this decision. But we're going to support both of the loose proposals in this case, in the hope that at least something can get multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7131	As I suggested in the change of lines with the Council of State, and as Kjersti Toppe points out, we did not get exactly the answers we wanted, so to speak, in supporting the proposal of the Progress Party. But that's the best we can do today, as it looks. As Mr Toppe, I would also like to make a final attempt to bring the Advance Party to bear on the proposal we have put forward in the matter, i.e. proposal No. 1, which gives a completely different predictability. But there are several strong signs here that we are seeing a lifetime for Granheim far beyond two years – in the future, Granheim needs. When we finally get a majority that underlines what Toppe also stresses – ‘minimum is maintained at the same level as today’ – there is a clear marshall, to say the same, to the government. It is fairly clear and cannot be waived, because this is very clear speech from the Storing. Suffering if we don't have a majority for what we think is best, we support the best we can do. There we are, too. Finally, the Labour Party is in favour and vote in a subsidiary way for the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7138	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7155	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the President, 3 minutes to each of the other party groups and 3 minutes to the members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7162	The entire committee agrees on all the comments and the legislative proposal. It's not very common. I'm proud that we could work well together, not only to change the law, but also to show some challenges. The entire committee will amend the second paragraph of Section 6-6 of the Pharmacy Act to open up to exchange biological medicinal products in pharmacies. It opens up the possibility that original biological medicinal products and their biosimilar medicinal products can be considered as interchangeable, including that biosimilar medicinal products of the same original – reference product – can be placed on the exchange list as interchangeable. The Committee received six hearings, from the Pharmacy Association, the Organisation of the Disabled, the National Association for Digestive Diseases, the Cancer Association, the Sanofi-Aventis AS and the Pharmaceutical Industry. The Committee noted that both the medicinal product industry and the Joint Organisation of Disabilities were concerned that this could weaken the patient’s unique right to reservation. The Committee notes that patients have an independent right of reservation under the Pharmacy Act § 6-6, if the change is against the patient’s express wish. We got some concerns from some hearing bodies that it opens up for exchange even where there is different active substance. The Committee emphasises that the change we are making does not open up to switching between different pharmacies active substances. A large part of the medicinal product volume covered by the change is insulin medicinal products for the treatment of diabetes. The Diabetes Association is concerned that new medicinal products with new pre-packaging with other pens that may contain a different strength ratio may become difficult and that training is required. The Committee expects that input from the professional community will have a significant impact on the assessment of interchangeability between medicinal products administered with different devices. Norway has had problems with the security of supply of medicines. Insulin preparations are essential for public health. Therefore, the Committee expects the impact on security of supply to be part of the evaluation when the medicinal products authorities set a tier price for biological medicinal products. The entire committee decides to amend the second paragraph of Section 6-6 of the Pharmacy Act to open up to exchange biological medicinal products in pharmacies. I advise all parties, including those who are not in the Health and Care Committee, to support the change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7181	I have probably not said this from this chair before: this is a very wise proposal from the government. That is the reason why the rapporteur was in the Chamber to have a unanimous vote. A more up-to-date regulatory framework is now being introduced to switch biological medicinal products into pharmacies. Then it is important to stress that this should not happen without the applicant or the customer want to do so, and it may be particularly important that the customer is aware that you can accept no. We in the Committee are also aware that this must be a good process to ensure that there are equivalent medicines to replace. It is also seen that there is a problem that switching to another medicinal product may require some more guidance on its use, and it may be important for pharmacies to be aware of it, so as to ensure proper use. We know that the misuse of medicinal products has serious consequences in some cases, and it is clear that if you are going to switch to another medicinal product in this field, it is important to know how best to use it. I think it's positive that you see here that you have the potential to make some financial savings, given the price. This may help to stimulate the development of more good alternatives and access to them on the market. It could, in turn, be a contribution – but perhaps not the greatest – to one of the challenges that have really grown for us in recent years, namely the area of drug shortages. If we now have more options to choose from in some cases, it might also be a contribution to having more options, avoiding a situation where patients are at risk of not getting a drug or medicine that they need. All in all, this is a positive thing that there has been little disagreement about in the committee, and I think what we are now adopting is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7194	The overall objectives of the pharmaceutical policy are: to ensure good quality in the treatment of medicinal products; to have the lowest possible price, equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products; and to facilitate research and innovation. Drug exchange in pharmacies was introduced in 2001 and contributes to one of these objectives, namely lower prices of medicinal products. Today, the exchange of medicinal products concerns generically equivalent medicinal products and parallel imported medicinal products. Now the proposal is to extend the exchange scheme to include biological medicinal products. There is now an enormous development in medicinal products, and an increasing proportion of the medicinal products that are being developed in the future will be biological or biological. By allowing biological medicinal products to also be included in the exchange mechanism, the system is now better in line with medical developments. Another argument is that it facilitates a better exploitation of the potential for competition in the market. The lowest price is not, as I said, the only pharmaceutical policy objective we have. Good quality in the treatment of medicinal products, and not least equivalent and rapid access to effective medicinal products, are also important objectives. For patients, it is important that they receive good information and that they experience the safety of the medicinal product they receive. In other words, it is not free to switch to pharmacies if there are medical reasons not to switch. This is important for the Right, and it is also well taken care of in the new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7205	There is, as I said, a consensual committee behind this position, and that is not so often what happens. These are important clarifications, I think, as the committee has done. The proposal no longer provides for the substitution of medicinal products in pharmacies to be reserved for generic and parallel imported medicinal products, but also for original biological medicinal products and their biosimilar medicinal products. For the Central Party, it has been important to clarify things in the configuration together with the Committee. It goes without saying that there is not only a low price that is a measure of medical policy, but also the need to ensure good quality. A large part of the volume of medicinal products covered by these changes in rules is likely to be an insulin medicinal product, and there are some calls for it to be heard. I am pleased that a Joint Committee clarifies that an important requirement for the substitution of medicinal products in pharmacies is that the exchange itself should be safe and justifiable, and that the Committee expects that contributions from the professional community will have a significant impact on the evaluation of the inter-changeable medicinal products. The background for this is the experience that one had when an inhalation medicine for asthma was made changeable, where both a medical unit and a nurse's association warned that it was not entirely corresponding that it could lead to improper use. But the decision was made clear against the professional advice. I hope we don't see such episodes again. Several manufacturers of insulin have provided critical comments in a slightly different area. They indicate that the development of such medicinal products is costly and time consuming, and that excessive price pressure could lead to suppliers not giving priority to the Norwegian market. Then we are concerned with something that the Storting has discussed a lot, simply lack of medicine and security of supply. I am also pleased that a Joint Committee expects that the impact on security of supply is part of the assessment when the medicinal products authorities set a step price for biological medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7216	In the legislative proposal on changes to the Medicines Act and the Pharmacy Act, the Government proposes that biological medicinal products may also be covered by the system of pharmacies. Drug exchange in pharmacies was introduced in 2001 and is one of the main pharmaceutical policy management tools in Norway, together with the step price, maximum price and the blue prescription system. The substitution scheme means that pharmacies may supply a medicinal product of the same active substance, but with a different brand name than that prescribed, without first clarifying the substitution with the prescriber. The pharmacy may switch between medicines on the exchange list. The exchange of medicinal products in pharmacies ensures increased competition, lower prices of medicinal products, better access to medicinal products and is an important element to avoid shortages of medicinal products in Norway. The system is designed and practised in a way that protects the patient’s interests, while promoting important health policy objectives. The proposal provides for the opening of exchanges of original biological medicinal products and their biosimilar medicinal products to be considered as interchangeable, including the possibility for biosimilar medicinal products of the same original medicinal product to be placed on a trading list as interchangeable. It is natural that the Pharmacy Act, which dates back to 2000, did not specifically include the exchange of biological and biosimilar medicinal products in pharmacies, given that biosimilar medicinal products were first authorised for use in the EEA in 2006. The Government considers that the regulation of the exchange mechanism needs to be adapted to the fact that, as part of the EEA Agreement, the medicinal product directive is also implemented in Norwegian law, including regulation of generic and biosimilar medicinal products. Medicinal products are included in the exchange list if they are considered as equivalent. In assessing the equivalence of medicinal products, it is necessary that the medicinal product contains the same active substance and has the same strength. Furthermore, the medicinal product must be bioequivalent, i.e. the absorption of the active substance in the body is so similar that it produces the same effect. In addition, the medicinal products must be considered as interchangeable in pharmacies. In this context, changes in pharmacies are considered safe and sound in the light of conditions related to the disease, the patient group, the risk of serious problems in the event of misuse and the need for specialised devices. The entry on the exchange list is based on an assessment of whether the exchange is safe and sound at group level. Nevertheless, the patient safety of the individual patient is ensured by the fact that the prescriber can reserve his or her reserves for exchange if the physician considers that the exchange would not be safe and sound for the specific patient. The legislative proposal facilitates the future management of the exchange mechanism in line with medical and regulatory developments, so that the potential for competition and lower pharmaceutical prices can be optimised in line with the overall objectives of the medicinal product policy adopted through the notification of the medicinal product.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7240	I have a question to the Council of State about something that is stated in the comments of a Joint Committee, which I also addressed in my post. This applies to: ‘The Committee recalls that a requirement to make medicines changeable in pharmacies is that the exchange itself is safe and sound. The Committee expects that input from the professional community will have a significant impact on the assessment of interchangeability between medicinal products administered with different devices.’» I just want to ask the council how he wants to follow this up, that we don't experience situations again where the academic community is critical of just such a change because there's different equipment, while one still gets a decision about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7250	It is a central part of the process with the involvement of professional environments in the evaluation. This has also been specifically addressed when a medicinal product requires special devices, that it should be considered as a topic in the evaluation. But if there is something I can't do, it is to guarantee that no professional will be critical of the exchange, of what is included in the exchange list. Fortunately, in Norway, there are good professional discussions about this, and we will be in situations where, once a conclusion has been reached, some will nevertheless be critical and have a different point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7255	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7277	This weekend we were able to read about Lasse in the address paper in 25 years, which lived alone in an apartment he had recently moved into. He was an Arsenal supporter, he had jobs, good friends and a supportive family. Unfortunately, the story of Lasse is that his family is telling, five months ago he chose to take his own life. But those who stood around him, saying that no one really knew what he was thinking. The great brother also tells us that he has had thoughts of taking his own life, but he chose to go to his manager and seek out the help he needed. I'll get to say thank you to the family who chooses to share this story. Your call for us to actually have to talk more about what's difficult, we all have to move on. In the case, Rita Småvik at the Resource Centre also talks about violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention about how more than three times as many men as women take their lives in Norway. She says that most people who take their lives don't necessarily have a desire to die, but they don't necessarily know how to live. It's a feeling that unfortunately is too many people who recognize, and that's also why we have to talk more about mental health. It should be just as natural for you to get good health care if you have a mental illness, as if you were breaking your leg. At the same time, providing mental health care is not necessarily the same as plastering a bone fracture. Plagues may be complex and the treatment offer must be well adapted to the individual. Some people have a little bit more trouble, others have a lot more trouble. It is also important to remember that mental health challenges are something that many people live with, whether in education or work, and therefore it is also important to have transparency, understanding and generosity around them. I am very happy that mental health throughout the government has been high on the agenda. In the last few years, we've had a big investment. Health centres and school health services have been given a strong boost. We have presented a separate escalation plan for children and young people’s mental health. There has been a call for all municipalities to also have psychological competence. There are separate packaging procedures for mental health, which also means that the patient should know what to do when it happens and who is responsible for it. Although the mental health package process still needs to be further developed in order to function properly, it is thus the beginning of a significant quality promise for many patients. Waiting times are falling, there is a separate action plan on suicide, and more attention is paid to treatment services where the patient is, whether it is. Internet-based methods or outreach collaboration teams between specialist health services and municipalities. In addition, I am proud that with the Right in Government we have also been able to introduce free treatment options, which means that you can decide for yourself, regardless of your wallet, the treatment you want. It is particularly important for those patients who need mental health care, because they can also find motivation in different services. There is a lot of good work that has been done, and it is very good that it has been high on the agenda. Unfortunately, we see that there are a lot of people who are having a hard time. I also have to admit that I am extra worried about the pandemic, because strict infection protection measures can cost too many people a price. There are some people who experience uncertainty, many have been lonely and isolated, and we also read things about and talk to people who say they have a greater need for help than before. In order to get a good overview of what the need really is, it is wise that the government has reduced a rapid-working sample which should also look at the consequences in both the short and the long term. But I think we also need a debate to look at what we can do to get an even better mental health in the future, whether we're in a pandemic or not. At the same time, I think it is important, even when we have a good debate on mental health, that we remember that this is not just about treatment or healthcare – it's about prevention, and it doesn't just have to be health policy. What I'm pleased about is that mental health is now a fundamental and systematic part of public health work, because the goal must be that fewer people need mental health care. We need to prevent where we can -- it's very important for the individuals involved. It's about action like a good school, a good child protection, good leisure activities, good follow-up if you experiment with drugs, a good and safe job, physical activity. All of these are examples of things that are also very important medicine for your head. Nor should we forget that when we have this debate. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State want to do to strengthen the work on mental health in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7298	Thank you very much for a very important interpellation. Even though we've managed to keep the infection lower and society more open than many other countries through the coronary apathy, as the representative points out, it has had a price. The pandemic and the strict measures of infection have led to extra loads for many, including: single residents and students, who experience solitude and isolation, those who lack more contact with family, those who do not have a job to go to, and those who lack good colleagues — to mention something. Children and young people are strongly affected by the pandemic, with long-standing limitations in social contact and important meeting places such as school, leisure and activities. Many have felt lonely and have had heavy thoughts. It's a natural reaction in a time like this. For most people this will go over when everyday life becomes more like before. At the same time, we know that loneliness can lead to more mental health challenges, especially for those who are already vulnerable. We know that the situation is extra demanding for those who do not have it safely at home. For those living with domestic violence, the threshold may have been even higher than before to seek both help and help. I have been aware that the services of vulnerable groups, especially children and young people, should be kept open and physically accessible as long as this is a matter of professional concern. Health centres and school health services are the most important lowthreshold provision for children and young people. That is why I and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation sent letters to all rapporteurs stressing that, as a general rule, health care professionals should not be used in the field of infection tracking. Health centres and school health services were reinforced by 75 million in the revised national budget for 2020. kr to increase accessibility. In 2021, 35 million were redispatched. to focus on digital services for children and young people. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people has largely maintained activity during the pandemic. Physical meetings have been replaced to some extent by online solutions and telephones. The figure for 2020 shows that it was performed 7 pst. several outpatient consultations for children and young people in mental health protection compared to 2019. In total, more than 900000 such consultations were carried out in 2020. Health professionals are a scarce resource under the pandemic. Therefore, I believe it is important to build on the well-known low-threshold services we already have and to strengthen the work on mental health. We have been working for many years to build better services in municipalities by providing more psychologists, more health care professionals, more low-threshold services and more outreach teams. But now we are taking action to ensure that the municipality can also provide free training and low-threshold education for rapid mental health care. I share the representative's concern about the consequences of the strict measures to protect the disease. Over the last year, the government has taken several steps to protect the particularly vulnerable groups, most recently through the action plan discussed in the Stortinget in February, with 100 million. to strengthen paediatric psychiatric outpatient clinics. These means could contribute to increased manning, the use of new technologies and new methods, prevention and competence measures. It's also set at 100 million. to maintain important lowthreshold services in municipalities for people with mental and drug problems. Many with severe mental and drug problems were injured when some of the lowthreshold services closed down in March last year. This subsidy strengthens municipal mental health and drug services despite strict requirements for infectious diseases. In addition, Chapter 5A of the covid-19 regulation now opens up organised sporting activities and recreational activities for people with mental health and drug problems as long as this is carried out outdoors in groups of up to five and that all participants come from the same municipality. Such services are important to prevent mental health and drug problems from getting worse. These offers allow many to maintain important routines in everyday life, including in areas with very high infection pressures, through organised training, football, tour groups and other social activities outdoors, where it is easy to keep distance. It's further allocated 10 million. DKK to maintain specific lowthreshold services in municipalities for children and young people in 2021 and in addition SEK 170 million. for actions in the Child Restraint Plan and the mental health of young people. More help phones and chat services are combined with some 20 million. kr in the last year. Voluntary activities have also been given considerable resources to maintain their activity. Among other things, in 2020 and 2021 75 million were allocated. kr annually to non-governmental organisations via the Dam Foundation to create meeting places and activities for people who are socially isolated as a result of the infection prevention measures. It's further allocated 18.3 million. SEK in 2021 for the mobilising of solitude grant scheme, and children and young people together with older people are the target group of the scheme. Since November last year, the Health Directorate has carried out broad population-oriented campaigns to safeguard mental health and quality of life and to prevent loneliness. Some of the campaigns are aimed at children and young people on several digital platforms, and healthnorge.no has several digital self-help tools that can be used by children and young people in the event of anxiety, depression or sleep disorders. But I think we still need to have a significant attention to mental health in information that goes out to the population. It is just as important as the call to follow the disease prevention measures. In the last year, significant funds have been allocated to actions for several groups, both through earmarked grants and framework transfers to municipalities and hospitals. We have taken many steps to help children and young people who are struggling under the pandemic. However, we must acknowledge that not everyone has received the help they need in the long-term crisis of Norwegian society. Many professionals have gone a long way to provide the best possible help, but there is a pressing situation in many places, especially with regard to children and young people. The number of daily and emergency peaks in the mental health protection of children and young people has been higher in 2020 than in 2019. Several young people are referred to mental health protection with suspicion of depression and eating disorders. The professionals say that many of those who come are also sicker than before. Therefore, there is still a need for a strong commitment to mental health. Those in need of specialist health care should receive it. Before the pandemic, we asked health regions, in cooperation with other agencies, to assess the need for mental health care in the coming years and the capacity of specialist health services. We're getting a response to this assignment this spring. So it's a work that started before the pandemic, but that's been even more updated under the pandemic. I am concerned that the measures should be as targeted as possible and have therefore also set up an expert group to look at how the pandemic has affected the quality of life, mental health and drug use of the population. The Group shall make concrete proposals on where to step up efforts and on whether there are new measures that should also be assessed. The expert group report shall be completed by 30 April of this year. We want to use the government's report for decisions on infectious diseases, but not least to look at what new mental health and drug interventions we are going to introduce or strengthen in both the short and slightly longer term. We have to make sure that the services of those who are mentally struggling are easily accessible and that the capacity is good enough both in the municipalities and hospitals. The pandemic is a magnifying glass of health and care services, both on our forces and on our weaknesses. We're going to use what we've seen to improve the services of people with mental health challenges. In conclusion, I would like to refer to what the Prime Minister said in his statement to the Stortinge last week: 'We have been in this crisis together. We shall also get out of this crisis together." For many of us, a normal everyday life is what we long to do: do what will make our lives normal again. But too many will be left with long-standing challenges as a result of what you have experienced during the pandemic. They will not be left alone – we will also go out of this crisis together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7349	Let me first thank the Council of State for a good and complementary answer. I think there are a lot of important measures that you have worked with a lot and that you also show that you want to work with a lot in the future. I also think it is very important to stress that the actions taken should be targeted, that we know that what is being done is knowledge-based. That is why I very much welcome this group of experts who are going to look at the problems both in the long term and in the short term, and who are going to make concrete proposals. I am very happy to follow that group and their work and how the government intends to follow it up. I also fully agree that it is wise to continue to look at the low-threshold services we have and how they can be exploited in an even better way. For example, access to rapid mental health care around the different municipalities has been an important project to get out, but it is also important that the municipalities that may now experience a great deal of pressure on these services follow, that they continue to be maintained. For example, in my own municipality of residence, Trondheim, there was a time when there was a problem that there was no capacity in the rapid health care system, which did not let in any new ones either. I think it has improved now, but the fact that municipalities also follow up on the availability of low-threshold services is important in the future. It's also possible to imagine that there are other things you can do in the future. The expert group is one thing, but I think that, in general, research should have increased because many, especially young people, experience a higher level of mental health problems than before. It's important to know that the resources we use are being used correctly. I also believe that there is a need to put in place even more low-threshold services, which I was probably also involved in, as well as easily accessible information for children and young people. So I believe that the health care we provide, and the guidance we give, also has to be given where young people are, and that's probably so important in terms of having an open door at a health care facility. But you also have to be online, so a digital and accessible school health service seems to me to be an important step forward. I believe that we also need to make sure that we have a differentiated treatment offer. Each patient is different. This is why it is also necessary to have the option to choose differently in order to obtain the offer that suits you best, for example. if it is a drug-free treatment, or if it is another type of treatment that is suitable for yourself. There, I think free treatment is a good example of having the opportunity to do so, and I think it would also be wise to expand in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7364	Thanks for the feedback. It is good to confirm that the representative Holm Lønneth and I agree, since we belong to the same party, about what is the challenge, and what should be the priorities ahead. It is that very many will need fast low threshold, simple help. It's maybe something we're talking about too little, that in the case of mental health, it's like most people who get a mental health challenge don't deal with themselves, along with their closest ones, and need help, will actually get a lot and good help from very quick and easy help. For a lot of people, it's not like this is an area that requires a lot of and very advanced help. Very often, quite a few hours will e.g. in a person who knows something about conversational therapy, who has some competence in this area — participating in lowthreshold services in the municipality, faster mental health care — is the small thing to do to reverse development. It's very positive, because very often when we're talking about mental health, it almost gives you the impression that if you get mental health challenges, there's little help to get -- it's little as a helper, you have to wait a long time, you get seriously ill. No, very many people get help, the help works very well, and it's also often well documented that the help is effective. But we need to provide more help, not least now in the future situation, so low-threshold services are important. I also think we have to think that hopefully we'll be on our way out of this pandemic in the course of a summer, a summer in which very many of those who have worked in the services have a strong need to take time off because they've worked a lot. That means that some of the offers that are open otherwise this year will be limited or closed in the summer, and I think it's important that we now start thinking about how we can mobilise so that there's also an offer this summer, that there are meeting places, that we mobilise the voluntary and non-profit sector. Then, unfortunately, we see an increase in references to the specialised treatment of those referred to today, especially children and young people, and the feedback from the service is that some of those referred and in need of help are also sicker. That's why it was important that we get hit before the pandemic, start the necessary work to have an assessment of what should actually be offered in the specialised mental health service, and what should be dimensioned in the future. It's very good that we get that work answered during this spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7375	Let me begin by thanking the interpellant for traveling a very important theme. We can in many ways confirm that increasing loneliness and mental health is a growing problem under the pandemic. I myself have spoken to the Blue Cross, as among others. run the two anonymous child and youth chat services between 9 and 19 years of age, talkAboutPsyken.no and talkAboutMobbing.no. Blue Cross reports more, longer and heavier conversations, youths who tell about discouragement, hopelessness and lack of confidence in the future, and they notice an increase in serious conversations related to challenges in family relationships, eating disorders, self-harm and suicidal thoughts. TalkAboutPsyken.no had 11 530 enquiries in 2020, and they have had about 30 pst. increase in the number of requests in January and February of this year. We look at what they talked about in March, that is, completely fresh feedback, conversations about their own mental health have increased to 79 pst. of the enquiries. In March 2020, this date was 56 p.m. of the conversations. Suicide talks have increased from 22 p.m. in 2020 to 34 pst. in March of this year. Here comes two quotes from the conversations from the last month: I have not heard anything from the BUP in several weeks, and in the last few weeks everything has fallen into the dark. And, the health nurse at school is rarely there. You have to make an appointment first because of the corona, which I don't want to. I haven't seen her in several weeks, and her door hasn't been open in several weeks, which it always is the days she's there. We all agree that loneliness and different mental challenges have had a lot of leeway over now 13 months with pandemics and a society that has been totally shut down in large parts of the country. But it has also tried the government's policy to take account of. A number of exceptional budgetary reinforcements have been put in place in the last year, and I have looked through what is prioritised in addition to the ordinary budgets in the areas of children and young people in particular: In the CNB for 2020, we granted, inter alia, Seventy-five million. DKK to non-governmental organisations and 400 million. kr in the action package for vulnerable children and young people. The re-balancing of the 2020 budget contained a package of measures for vulnerable groups for Christmas of 25 million. kr. In the supplementary proposal on changes to the State budget for 2021, 158 million were allocated. to further measures for vulnerable groups, including: Seventy-five million. DKK for the extension of the health-free incentive programme, SEK 10 million. DKK to national grant scheme to include children and young people, SEK 10 million. kr for actions for the mental health of students and 7 million. kr to Red Cross's conversation offer, Cross on the neck. In the treatment of Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021 now in February, measures of over 2.2 billion were adopted. kr, which will benefit vulnerable groups, including: 500 million. SEK 100 million for the municipality's summer school offer. DKK for child and youth psychiatry, SEK 11 million. SEK 50 million for dealing with the consequences of the pandemic on the mental health of students. SEK to employ students in the relationships to provide good social services for the students, and SEK 20 million. Dr to social lowthreshold services for students, to mention something. The Coronapandemic has put a magnifying glass on challenges in our society that were also there before the crisis. Many of those who had it difficult before have got it even harder. The difference is that now we know more about who has the difficulty, and what actions and offers are important. That knowledge obligates us. The government has granted more than 3 billion. kr in the last 13 months. This money we have to make sure that it is used where it is most needed, and in this work the municipalities also play a central role. They have the knowledge, and they have to use it to make assistance provision the best possible and meet them with the greatest needs out there. Then together, all of us have to make sure that the help is there for those who need it for a long time to come. In addition to this, we know that a controlled reopening of society and that as much as possible returns to school, work and activity, are also crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7402	‘Everyone’ is talking about mental health these days, and unfortunately for good reason. A shut-down society for more than one year is killing on some people each. The challenge is that people are struggling for completely different reasons. Most tackle the shutdown, but have one thing that plagues them a lot, and that is amplified the longer it goes. Some people are struggling because they have lost their job, or are at risk of losing their job. Someone has no fear of losing a job, but gets mad at sitting in a tight apartment alone in a home office. Others have again had to work a lot, or are at any time at risk of being infected by covid-19 in the performance of their job. Loneliness is heavy in normal life, but has become extremely much more pervasive in the last year. Many who would normally not have been hit by loneliness have now experienced it. This may be especially true of people who have moved to a new place, and students who have moved to a new city because of studies. Where life was to be marked by new exciting acquaintances, everyday life has become alone. Then we have all those who have a girlfriend or close relatives who live in another country. We've had a lot of enquiries about this, and it's obvious that too many people are going on their heels. I am pleased that we have built up healthcare in general over the last few years, that we have developed psychological skills in all municipalities, more low-threshold services, more FACT services and not least a significant strengthening of health centres. I dare not think of where we had stood today without this reinforcement in all the terms of the last few years. When I, who still have my job, and a man and child who have also kept their jobs, and we have all been healthy all along, still think that the days are heavy, it is not difficult to understand that those who have not been equally lucky are struggling more and more. I miss my friends, my relatives and my colleagues. I miss something happening, and I miss traveling. I just miss my everyday life the way it was, and I miss it so much that I sometimes feel that I am going crazy about it. And the lack increases in strength every day. I'm convinced that what will have the greatest effect on the psyche for all of us is to get our lives back. That we can open society, while spring and summer give us sun, light and warmth, will be important to very many of those who are now struggling. I therefore ask that the Council of State, the Government, the Directorate of Health and the Institute of Public Health now, more than ever before, weigh the mental health plagues against the numbers of infections, when discussions about the opening of society take place. Are we paying too high a price to keep the infection down? What irreparable harm do we do to our inhabitants, not least to the vulnerable children, the lonely and the elderly, by living the way we do now? Of course, we need to provide healthcare at all stages to meet the needs of our citizens today, and not least when this is finally over. I'll take that as a matter of course. But my main message is, the very best thing for everyone's mental health is to get our lives back, and it's urgent for many of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7427	I would like to thank the representative for raising this discussion. I got information from those who work in the Cross on the neck, that more children are thinking about taking their own lives because of the pandemic and the measures. Many are lonely and mentally ill. There has been a large increase in the number of eating disorders. At a hospital in Oslo, they had 67 patients in outpatient clinic in 2018. Now the number has increased by 40 pst. In Westfold, the increase has been almost 50 pst. this year. A study conducted by the Institute for Public Health shows that more people are struggling with loneliness and mental distress. The problem is that we had a mental health crisis before the pandemic hit Norway. The right promised that mental health would be given more resources than the other parts of the health sector. They called it the "golden rule". I agree with the Psychologists' Association, which said: "The Golden Rule is a political bluff." SV has proposed a mental health crisis package from the summer of 2020. We were all alone. The government promoted a crisis package of $10 billion, but they only proposed $22 million. to mental health in December. This shows that the government has not understood the seriousness of the situation. The size improved the system a little bit, but there are huge gaps right now. SV has asked, and asks again, the Minister of Health to get a mental health crisis package, which must last even after the pandemic is shut down. The damage to mental health is not automatically remedied simply because the numbers of infections go down. SV proposed nearly 700 million in the budget. Dr more for mental health than the government, and we hope the other parties understand the seriousness and support a mental health crisis package. One of the problems is that mental illness does not get the whole treatment and does not get healthy enough. A report from the National Centre for the Expertise of Mental Health shows that 92 pst. the informants had experienced at least once that the treatment was completed before completion of the treatment. The Sintef annual report shows that there are no more annual work per capita for mental health for adults this year. Under this government, we have lost 500 places in the day-to-day treatment for the mentally ill. SV got a majority at Stortinget, together with the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party, to stop the closures. The right, left and Christian parties voted against. I expect the government to stop and follow the decision from Stortinget, so that no places are cut. I ask the Minister for Health: can he assure me and SV that no daily places in mental health are being laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7444	First thanks to the representative Mari Holm Lønneth for bringing up an incredibly important theme. The Korona crisis is magnifying the challenges for vulnerable children and young people, and that's who I want to focus on in this article. Psychologist Ingvild Star Tislöv said to NRK: ‘To deal with long periods without leisure depends on where and how you live and what resources you have access to’. Reduction in leisure and schooling especially affects children with parents who are already struggling. The deadlines and meeting places were lost under the corona. Many children and young people are lonely and lacking social work. As one youth said to the Evening Post, "My place of residence is Deli de Luca." That's why we're waiting for society to open up. Some have not actually attended a one-year social event. The Council of State has explained the work done by the government in the field of mental health, and I must say I am proud to be part of a government that has been working systematically since 2013. What I want to focus on is prevention, not least the need to have competence in the service. Reports from the Children’s and Youth Directorate show that the crisis is magnifying the problems, and a report from the Red Cross shows that one in six children tells of some kind of violence or abuse during the Corona crisis. It is a cross-ministerial action plan against violence and abuse that will run until 2021, and one of the major initiatives in that plan is precisely the need for more systematic and better competence in service at all levels. It starts with the government now, with new child protection laws, such as calls for increased competence in the municipal service to be provided to vulnerable children. It is worrying that health centres report fewer enquiries than before, that is actually the case, and there is a concern about the aftermath of cases. Several measures have been put in place to prevent mental health abuse. Local authorities have received greater grants to include sport, outdoor life, culture and volunteering. They now add up to 450 million. kr. in the State budget for 2021. It's a good start for municipalities to prioritize this. We are also developing a pilot project with a national leisure card scheme for everyone to participate in sport and culture. But society needs to be opened up, and that's important. The representative of Gender Kjos was in on it. As far as child poverty is concerned, which I believe is a special challenge in the coronary crisis, the government has increased child welfare. I guess we're the first to have done it in six years. Free core time is introduced in kindergartens, and some municipalities also have free after-school services with homework and meals. You have to have someone to talk to, you have to have a trust person, whether it's a health nurse, a teacher or a trainer. That's what's missing now. I am pleased that the Minister of Health continues to make it clear that the offer at the health centre should be up, and that there is a great deal of funding for online solutions to organisations, so that you can access low-threshold services. Many do it, but what's important is to sit down and sit next to someone who's struggling and needs help. It is also important that municipalities give priority to vulnerable children and young people and develop concrete action plans to prevent mental health failure. Volunteers need to be mobilised in sport and culture — from the Salvation Army and the Church’s City Mission to business, which can provide summer jobs for young people who have felt lonely and outside. Repair of mental health is not a smart fix. I am pleased that the government takes this seriously, and will continue to work on putting mental health on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7469	I started today with a debate on the presentation of the Health Barometer. One of the questions asked there was mental health. The answer from people in Norway was that very few, only 11 pst., had a good idea of health services given to people with mental health problems. It's a very low number. 37 pst. considered the offer to be foolish. There was no more than 5 pst. by those who said that the school can handle children and young people who are struggling with mental health challenges. If we had received such answers in another area of health policy, it would probably have been bigger, because this is discouraging. It was all the time that people, most of them, said that mental health care was one of the areas they thought the government should give priority to. That has been said a great deal in this debate. We're in a pandemic, and there's a special situation. There have been many media reports that the pandemic has led to a record increase in child and youth psychiatry. Among other things, there was a look-up in Bergensavisen on the weekend where the clinic leader for children's and youth psychiatry in Health Bergen stood up and said that the number of referrals had increased by 25 pst. only after New Year. They had started crisis plans, but it wasn't that simple, no quick fix. The serious thing was that they were worried because children and young people who came were much more iller than before, and they were younger. In particular, she was concerned that there were so many young people who had severe anorexia, children down to the age of 12. Anorexia is one of the most difficult mental disorders to manage — poor treatment outcomes and high death rates. This is her statement. I want to say that there's one thing we need to focus on, is that we can make a good offer under the pandemic, not just a good offer, but a completely necessary offer for young people with serious eating disorders, because here it might say about life. I have also received feedback from the Advisory Service on Eating Disorders, which I also know has written a letter to the Ministry of Health and Care asking for more funds. They also report enormous progress, and it involves serious illness, eating disorders, there too. They've had an increase in requests of over 100 pst, and as much as 60 pst. treat them as serious. ROS, i.e., advice on eating disorders, we wrote about in the budget with a reference to giving them more resources in the revised. They got half their income from the Health Directorate in 2019 and are in the situation that they now have less resources than they have had. I hope that we can arrange that. I guess it's spending money. Then, of course, I want to spread some criticism into this debate where a lot of Right-Speakers are talking about what you've got. Of course, a lot has been done, I'll tell you. We talk a lot about society's preparedness for everything from infectious diseases to intensive care, but we don't talk too much about what we're prepared for the mental health of children and young people. We haven't had that. We have had an offer in mental health protection that has not even been sufficient in a normal situation. We have numbers that as many as one of the three referred to are rejected. We have an enormous number of critical reports from Barneombodet and Ukom, which say that there is no lack of plans, but still we are here, and the problems are the same year after year. We know that the mental health package has been deleted from reports. The Golden Rule is not followed up, and the opposition's proposal to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and get a big message about this has been voted down again and again. I hope that this can be a source for the government, too, that we need to strengthen the supply of children and young people between pandemics to give them a good supply in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7481	Thank you to the interpellant and to the Minister of Health and Care for leading us into this solid review of mental health challenges under this pandemic and some of the measures to meet them. Thanks also to members of the opposition for helping to deepen this topic, this pandemic that almost has the ineffectiveness of the fiction. It has been said a few times that the pandemic is a magnifying glass of health challenges in Norway. It is also a magnifying glass in the budgets, as far as I can see. It has, in itself, also underlined the Minister of Health with a review of what has actually been granted. Now, not everything can be done with money, and a lot of the things that now have to be used in the experience of how we're going to face a future crisis of this kind, have to be about being able to talk to ourselves about a readiness for mental health, which the representative Toppe was also in. Last week I had a meeting with the Medical Student Committee at the faculty at the University of Oslo. There was a lot of talk about the quality of teaching and the provision of education that has been given. Now this isn't a debate about quality at the academy, but one of the things that was brought out was the feeling of slowing down in the educational cycle, and how it itself is a psychological strain. Many of them had e.g. Experienced lessons in dissection will be reduced to a Teams meeting where you were shown planning how things should be done. While you usually stand in an auditorium or a hall and get close to the knowledge of the subject, digital media were now referred to. It can't be the right way to meet the teaching. Of course, it's absolutely necessary in the situation that we've been up in, but they considered it a burden, and they felt they were outlawed. Student life is in many ways an important period of socialisation. You get socialized into an adult life. But socialization is the opposite of isolation, and the fact that one and maybe two years of education has now been lost without being able to meet friends or be in colloquium must also be a burden. I can only think back to my own study time to have some sense of what it might be like. The FHI survey to which the interpellant referred, with 26 000 responses to the questionnaire sent from FHI – 44 pst. black, it was very loud – showed that more and more people are struggling, young and single, and that one in three students feels lonely. It's just one of the many challenges facing this group of young people, and the worst is that in Bergen and Oslo, where there's the greatest infection pressure. It is clear that important measures need to be put in place specifically in this group in the future. International studies also show that anxiety and depression are a consequence of the covid pandemic. In Haukeland, a study has shown that 60 pst. wears with late effects of the pandemic. There is a well-known case in the professional community of viral infections leading to mental disorders, a kind of PTSD, as many describe it as being. I don't think it helps much for many young people that we who are well-established, with homes where we can go from room to room, express sympathy and compassion for her who sits on one room almost in isolation. I think we'll get more left to show action in the time that's coming. I am very pleased that members of the Family and Culture Committee have participated in this, because it is obvious that many of the measures that need to be taken must come into this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7498	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an incredibly important debate. In the last year, many have worn out, but those who have worn out the most have been the young, students who live alone on a little hybel, school kids who don't get the opportunity to live a normal childhood, and people who live alone. Life has been put on hold for too many people. The time spent by young people to be with friends, to go to a party, to look for a girlfriend, is replaced by a time of solitude on the ground. During the period from 18 November to 4 December, over 58 000 Norwegians were invited to a comprehensive survey on infectious diseases, quality of life and mental health. The study was carried out in Oslo, Agder, Nordland and the West. The results show that more people are struggling with loneliness and mental distress. Young and single residents labor most. Among the students, one in three is lonely. One in four is not satisfied with life. The pandemic, as many have pointed out in the debate, has led us into a mental health crisis. It's no surprise that taking away from people's communities, predictability and economic security also makes life more difficult to live, both for those who had it difficult from before, and for people who have mastered life fine to now. Regularly young people with mental health problems are discovered. Serious mental disorders often have their debut in youth. We also have youth to transfer from childhood and youth psychiatry to adult psychiatry. In the last year, people in need of help from the district psychiatric centres have often been referred to as screen-based treatment providers. It is challenging for many, and especially for vulnerable young people, to build a new relationship with a client through a screen. There is also a great likelihood that the caregiver will miss out on important possibilities of observation that you have when you meet physically. For some mental disorders and problems, group treatment is the best way to get help, and this is difficult to digitally. Private psychologists physically accept patients. Other treatment providers, such as masseurs, dentists, hairdressers and others, also do, but at the district psychiatric centres it has not always been possible to get physical attention, and they have therefore referred new patients to the screening. We therefore hope that the Minister of Health can look at this and make sure that there is a physical encounter that is also the main rule of the district psychiatric centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7511	Thank you very much to all those who have taken part in the debate. It is an important start to a debate which has been going on in itself, but which we have to continue to lead ahead. I thought I would comment briefly on some of the things that have been raised in the debate. Wilkinson takes up the golden rule. It is true that this government has reintroduced it, which his own party in the government helped to remove, and although the goal attainment may vary from year to year, the golden rule has been an important change in order to get a lift for mental health. During the pandemic, a lot of money has been transferred to the municipalities, but not least to the hospitals, who are actually responsible for spending the money on mental health measures. So I just don't think it's right to say that the government hasn't prioritised this under the pandemic either. It is in several crisis packages, together with the Progress Party, that more money has been allocated to this. What I think the debate shows in a good way is that in the years to come, we still have to take good care of this. We still need a better knowledge base. We have to use the knowledge base we have, well. We need to make the low-threshold services available, well known, and also to indicate that the decision-maker is a good way in to provide good treatment, but not least in the future continue to mobilise the volunteer, which is important for providing those who need it with good help and meaningful experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7522	I would also like to thank you for a good and important debate. I will again refer to what the Prime Minister said in the statement last week, that the government will, among other things. in the revised national budget, bring back concrete measures to eliminate Norway from the crisis. It will also deal with measures in this area, so fortunately it is not the last time we discuss this in Stortinget. I think it's important that we have good discussions about this and make good decisions before the Storting goes apart before the summer. The representative Wilkinson asks if I can ensure that new daily places are not laid down, and the answer to that is yes; it is a follow-up to a decision that the Storting has made in this area, which of course will be followed up. But I believe that the work that was started by the government before the pandemic is more important, namely a thorough review of what the need actually needs to be for specialised mental health care – so that we not only have this discussion about daily places or not daily places, but actually try to get a common basis for having a platform to discuss where the need really is and how the effort is going to be in the future. I look forward very much to the work, which is to be completed now in the next few weeks. Then the representative shows Toppe to the Health Barometer and that many who believe we have a poor mental health service in Norway. I believe that is a serious feedback. But I believe that it is also about the way we talk about this offer, because I believe that we have a very large number of good offers, and that we should find out more that in Norway we have a mental health offer, a large and varied offer and many good professionals who offer help. Too often when you're talking about mental health, you're just talking about what's hard, what's not working, about the challenges we have. This is not about suggesting that things can get better, but I think we need to just create a belief in the population that if you have mental health challenges, it's actually good help to get for the very most – without one at the same time denying that there are people who need help and who don't get the help they wanted. So ask the representative Lars Haltbrecken if I can make sure that those who are going to get help with the DPS are allowed to meet physically. The answer to that is that if the patient and the therapist consider it necessary to provide good help, a meeting should be physically. But there are very many of these consultations that should continue to be given digitally, not least because many young people think it is a better way to get treatment and help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7533	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7549	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes with members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven rows with replies will be given after contributions from members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7556	First, I would like to thank the proposers and the committee members for their cooperation. The setting is presented, and it's known, so I'd like to say a little bit more about the Workers' Party's vision. After a record wet harvest and a tragic scrapping disaster at the end of last year, we were painfully reminded of how vulnerable we are to strong forces of nature. Climate change is leading to more rainfall, more heavy rainfall, extreme weather and destruction. We can never secure 100 percent, but we have to be better prepared for more frequent flooding and migration, and we have to make sure to prevent accidents and disasters. The NVE has an important task of identifying risks and preventing and limiting damage caused by floods and slips, as a consequence of, among other things. climate change. Many municipalities have not yet carried out necessary and important hazard monitoring and can benefit from NVE in land planning to ensure against the risks associated with floods and watercourses. In addition, we know that there is a lot of water lag and drainage. There is a need for significant investment in the coming years. In December 2016, the NVE submitted a report stating that today’s level of funding does not allow many hedging projects to be implemented. At the same time, the NVE suggests that increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and avalanches. However, in the state budget for 2021, 10 times less was allocated to preventive flood and scaffolding than the NVE recommends to ensure Norway against serious incidents. This reacted to several professional organisations, and with today’s funding rate it will take at least 12 years to meet the needs identified and estimated by the NVE. Increased appropriations could lead to a reduction in the cost to society of floods and events through direct costs for the repair of buildings and infrastructure, as well as the cost of infrastructure breaches. All experience shows that it is wiser and cheaper to prevent than to repair damage in retrospect, which is well documented. In addition to this, we know that many who live and live in flood and racially exposed areas feel a great deal of uncertainty and fear – fear of loss of life, health and values. There is too much distance between budget and real needs. Therefore, in its alternative budgets, the Labour Party has proposed significant increases in subsidies for climate change and extreme weather, floods and migration, prevention, security and equipment and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7571	I think we're unisont some that flaum and pace are important to prioritize also in the future. In this sense, it is good for us to raise the problems in the storeroom through this representative’s proposal, and in this way the work that the government is now doing in this area should also be codified. We all got a gruesome and serious wake-up during a few days of space Christmas, and there's a lot of agreement that there's a situation that we don't want to experience again. The government has long worked with the thematics flaum and pace, and here it is important both to go into the depths of it and to see that we have the right system in our work, and – of course – to find the cause-saman hang of why this has actually got such disastrous consequences. It is not difficult to understand that there is a desire for action when such events take place, but for the Right, it is important that we continue the systematic work we have started and do not jump to premature closures and actions that do not follow the knowledge-based approach. Even if there is a lot of wisdom in this room, we might have to recognize that a professional basis for what is right is outside this room. So we have to be patient and take the time to listen to those who can best guide us to take the right decisions. We are very pleased that the government has prioritised the work on Flemish and tailoring, both through systematic work and through annual exercises. And then we're going to put our trust in the knowledge of finding the good approaches, so that we can eventually make the right choices. Extremes will challenge us further in the years to come. Today we have had a fluff in connection with the climate announcement, and these matters are related. Taking climate change seriously and slowing it down through systematic and good climate work will help to reduce the consequences of extremes, flooding and migration. That is why it is good that we have now had such a thorough review of the objectives and measures in this area. For us, it is therefore important to show that we, together with the business community and the people, are willing to do the grips that we think are necessary to slow down the causes of flooding and migration, and we have now set out a course for the climate work that will help Norway also in the future to be able to benefit from bus services and safe travel along our roads. That's the way we'd best be able to prevent and avoid repairing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7588	The President would like to express the hope that there will be a simpler solution than there was in connection with the climate announcement today. [[Muntering in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7593	Norway is a long-distance country with infrastructure from Lindesnes in the south to Hammerfest in the north, and sometimes we are exposed to floods, migrations, races, etc. Every time it happens, it's once too much. It leads to material damage, but also sometimes to injury and loss of life, unfortunately. Climate change leads to changing weather, but at the same time there is no reason to believe that every flood, forest fire and rainfall is linked to man-made climate change. Regardless of that, it is important to secure life and values against extreme weather. For this reason, the Progress Party granted record value for flood and gliding prevention when we were in government, and in our alternative state budget for 2021 we granted 200 million. kr extra for flood and scrap prevention. Norway has a state budget of 1,500 billion. kr., and the Progress Party will spend more money to secure us against flooding and slipping. We will fight for that in future government budgets, but we will not bind the Storting, future expansion and future budgets with a loose Document 8. One of the most important things we can do is, among other things. building new and modern infrastructure. This is why the Progress Party, unlike the proposers, wants to build new, modern road sections – replacing old, razed road sections with new modern and safe roads that are both climate-friendly and weather-resistant. That's why we use, among other things. also more money on racial protection, new construction and protection. We want to build hundreds of miles of new highways and have, among other things, doubled the national transport plan in relation to what the red-green, with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, submitted. There is also a lot of money that will affect this work. Finally, I would like to say that, in addition to spending more money on national transport, we will now have an alternative budget before the summer. We will also have a debate on the national transport plan in this Chamber. There will be the Progress Party to raise the issue of more floods and tailors, regardless of the proposal here – just as it has been said – because more money for flood and tailoring is important for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7606	To begin with, there is still cause for concern about floods and escapes. Therefore, at each crossroad during this period, the Centre Party has proposed to significantly strengthen the allocations for flood and tailor-made prevention, in line with recommendations made by, inter alia, the Commission. NVE. Over a long period of time, we have repeatedly raised the need for flood prevention and long-term work on flood prevention. We therefore think that the proposal for a representative is worthy and we are pleased that we can be present today and raise the issue, which is significant throughout the country. Flood and slip are responsible for major damage every year, in the form of both damage to nature and damage to buildings, infrastructure and residents, which costs the public, not least private, large sums. Climate change, as we have discussed earlier this week, will help to strengthen it through a wetter, warmer and more wild climate. The need for active climate adaptation in order to prevent, as far as possible, natural damage caused by floods and rapids is incredibly important, and there is reason to stress that floods and rapids are as much a question of preparedness as a question of destruction and economic values. In addition, valuable food soils are threatened along rivercourses with increased river basins and more surface water, while exposed road sections pose a risk to road safety in large parts of the country. The proposal we have to deal with today raises some current issues and helps to raise an important issue at a time when floods and migrations have been put on the agenda through the dramatic events on the Gerdrum. However, the centre party believes that due to recurring challenges of varying seriousness, this area deserves more attention and more thorough treatment than we can do through a Document 8 proposal here today. We therefore believe it is high time that the Stortinget was presented with a more comprehensive approach to the issues, with a broad and sound knowledge base. The Stortingen has not been notified of the flood and escape problem since 2011–2012. The centre party sees developments in floods and migration in recent years, with the climate change we are in the middle of, and not least with the tragic event I have referred to, suggesting that there is a need for a comprehensive review of the flood and migration challenges in Norway, and we are therefore promoting a proposal on this today. We have also made it clear, through the examination of this case, that in cases where the county councils have destroyed their roads or other infrastructure, it must be resolved within the framework of the county's own budgets. This is contrary to the primary municipalities, where natural damage-related compensation schemes exist, such as floods, races and sprawl. The centre party believes that this is a strange distinction, as it is in everyone's interest that it is both prevented and cleaned up after the flood and left without going at the expense of the necessary services for the inhabitants, whether it be the municipalities or the county municipalities. I will deal with the proposals of the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party of the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7625	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7630	Lars Haltbrecken [[SV]] At the same time, the NVE has admitted that there is a real danger that they will not be able to capture and prevent dangerous development projects around the country, due to lack of resources. After leaving in Gjerdrum, a commission was set up to look at the causes of this fatal step. It's a hugely important work that this sample is doing, but we believe that we can't just sit and wait for the reports that come in the harvest and next year. We therefore hope that the government will think again and yet give more funding for flood and tailoring protection when the revised national budget is due to be presented in May. NVE has long asked for a strong escalation of the work on flood protection and anti-slip protection. They estimate that it will cost about 4 billion. to implement today's known needs for large flood and escape insurance measures. In a letter to the Stortinget, the Minister of Oil and Energy wrote that it increased the appropriation by 13 million. kr for flood and scrap prevention is in line with the NVE recommendations. Then I have to point out that this is a very modest increase compared to the total need for flood and tailoring measures, which amount to several billions. According to the NVE opinions, there is also little money compared to the actual need. When such a low additional allocation is justified by the fact that it is this directorate will be able to exploit and implement further flood and tailoring work during 2021, it shows the need for a stronger and much longer-term commitment to building capacity in the NVE. The floods and strides that we have witnessed in recent years must lead to a more powerful effort to prevent these events. It had therefore been time for a systematic monitoring of the need and a separate notification of the matter. I bring up the suggestions that SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7641	Then the representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7646	Climate change is here. In the years to come, the weather will be more and more hostile, not least in the north and in our long-distance country towards the west. We have to expect more downpour, more race, more storm tide and more natural damage. This is going to be hugely expensive, but if we do smart grips now, the bill can get smaller in the decades to come. But a completely different will is needed than the large number of displayed in this setting. NVE is missing a minimum of 4 billion. kr in flood and discard prevention measures. They warned about a aftermath for many years. The government has responded with far too small increases in the appropriations, but of which they boast uninhibited. The situation on the road network is dramatic. Every year the average is over 2,300 paces on Norwegian roads. Climate change is most likely to make these pathways even more racially dangerous in the years to come. The state road service has estimated that it will cost 70 billion. to secure the most vulnerable routes, so that flood and shear protection is expensive. Cleaning up after floods and escapes is much more expensive, measured both in human suffering and in money. So far, the tragedy of Gerdrum alone has cost ten lives and 900 million. kr in natural claims. What surprises me most about this matter is that it seems like the government is doing a good job, but the fact is that the government is granting crumbs compared to what the NVE is asking for. Instead of recognising the lack of funding in Norway for the flood and tailoring work, the Council of State elected Tina Bru in February to accuse the Greens of exploiting Gjerdrum-trading politically. It's a low-cost attempt to turn the debate away from its own responsibility. Good flood and tailoring is about having both good enough legislation, clear enough responsibility and adequate funding. The government is now failing in all three areas. In this setting, a number of proposals are proposed that would have improved flood and tailoring in Norway if the proposal had been adopted. Together with the Center Party and SV, we ask the government to present a big message on floods and strides, as well as to strengthen the NVE and the county councils' work on floods and migration. Together with SV, we also ask the government to review the legislation on the construction of mercury and to tighten the requirements for securing existing buildings. In addition, we ask the government to strengthen our first defense against extreme violence, floods and floods by strengthening the work of restoring ants and other natures. Flom and scrap security has cost money. The climate crisis we are involved in creating, driving the price tag into the weather, but the cost of doing as little as this government does is much, much greater in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7662	Tina Bru [18:27:28]: Climate adaptation and prevention of flood and tailoring damage are important, and we know that climate change is increasing the challenges in both areas. These are the proposers and I agree. Both floods and strides are areas that are also well worked on today, because the government takes people's security seriously. On our guard, the appropriations for flood and emergency prevention have been significant, and they have been significantly higher than before our reign. We have also made several extraordinary increases in the form of supplementary appropriations. We live in a long-term country, with different needs for security measures across the country, and although the government has increased its efforts in prevention, much remains to be done. Fortunately, the NVE works systematically and in the long term. Each year, the risk of flooding and migration is identified and important flood and tailor-made measures are implemented. The NVE is currently analysing the need for flood and scaffolding protection of existing buildings. We haven't had such an overview before. I think we all agree with the importance of the NVE prioritizing its assistance according to risk. The goal is to get as much back as possible in terms of reducing the risk of loss of life and damage. But we cannot remove all natural hazards in Norway. It is not possible physically to secure all buildings, and there will always be a certain residual risk, even where we implement protective measures. So it's important to remember that the NVE is not alone in prevention in floods and escapes. The municipality is planning authority and has a general responsibility for the safety of its inhabitants. We as individuals are also responsible for our own security and for our values. Today, there is a strict requirement for new settlements. However, it is not illegal to live in danger of nature. The municipality is responsible for the security of its inhabitants, but does not have a legal obligation to secure properties. We are all very affected by the tragic accident in Gjerdrum, where ten people lost their lives and a whole village experienced a nightmare. Still, there are people who have not been able to move home after what happened. Following this event, the government dropped a sample to carefully investigate the causes and assess measures to improve the prevention of these types of events across the country. It is a very important and necessary work. Finally, I would therefore like to point out that several of the proposals under consideration today affect the mandate of this committee. I therefore believe it is natural that the government should take a decision on any grip in this area only after the sample has delivered its final report. Then we'll also have better knowledge to build our decisions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7673	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7678	It was nice to see the council again. I have a question. The example comes from the region from which both the undersigned and the Council of State come. In December 2015, «Synne» hit both Agder and Rogaland. Although it has had a significant impact on both residents, municipalities and businesses, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. NorDan on Moi or in Kvinesdal, where houses were peeled away, the effect of “Synne” was reduced because the power company Sira-Kvina could mitigate the effect by holding back water in the watercourse further up. That means that because you had more controllable force, the effect of the flood was less. For the Progress Party, this is a win-win situation, where one gets both more power and less flood. That is why I wonder whether the Council of State will take the initiative of a more regulated force where there is a risk of flooding.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7685	After all, I'm not the one who is launching projects to build more renewable energy. We've had these discussions in the past as well, and it's absolute, as the representative points out, the possibility of better regulation in terms of floods if you have an elaborate watercourse or can take action to increase that ability of the watercourse. I'm definitely not against doing that, but I also think there's a balance here. We have often had this discussion in connection with, for example: protected watercourses, I know that's something the Progress Party has been concerned about, and I think we always have to balance these considerations. For me, this is not a black and white situation, and I think we need to look at what we can do to reduce the risk of life and health, and in between, this can be a grip that will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7698	The Labour Party will not vote in favour of those proposals. It is not because we believe these are bad proposals, and it is not because we are satisfied with the government budget appropriations with their budget partners. That's simply because we want to keep adding an increase in our alternative budget, and we think that's where much of the discussion belongs. At the same time, I have to ask the government representative: is it such that we can see an increase and an increase in bet on the government budget also on this item from the government parties, or will you still hold back from the opposition, who wants to spend more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7705	I think the representative knows quite well that I cannot, of course, stand here and shoot a budgetary process in government. What I can assure the representative is that in no way have we held back. On the contrary, during our reign we have taken a promise in this area which was absolutely necessary given the level of appropriations on which the representative's party was last in government. There has been a rather significant increase, but I have never – although there were several people who mentioned this in their post – tried to create the impression that everything is perfect, and that we have met all the need. On the contrary, I have been quite clear in this room in the past that we have a huge need for more flood and slip protection. We know it's this far identified up to 4 billion. in measures. Maybe there's more. That's more than what you'll be able to solve in a single financial year anyway. I think that also applies to the Workers' Party. Yes, we have to maintain the level, absolutely – we have to, we are going to have an increasing need in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7712	It's easier for me to stand here and promise on behalf of the Workers' Party that we want to prioritise this budget area higher, as we have proven in our alternative budget time and again. So I want to say that it would just be missing if the pot wasn't bigger now than it was eight years ago, when the last red-green government went off. You like to point to the last government, but sometimes I wonder who you're talking about, because there's been a lot of people. I would never have said a lot of weird things, it would have been ugly, but there's been a lot of different governments in the last few years, so it could be interesting to ask, how big is the real growth? We've had some inflation and I've been saying world wars – we haven't had that – but it's happened a lot since the red-green government set.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7719	I'm going to give the representative the right that there have been several different governments. Whether they've been weird or not, I don't know if I'm going to decide, but there have been different constellations, that's right. I am so pleased that the Workers' Party can stand here and promise that they will continue to increase the appropriations in this area, in this way in good tradition with what we have done through our reign, albeit with changing constellations, strange or not. But this is an important area, so if we can agree politically that this is something that needs to be prioritised in the future, there is nothing that will please me more than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7726	I would also like to express my joy at the fact that the Council of State is back after a little corona break. Then I also record that the Council of State has not forgotten the government's mantra, namely that the appropriations are larger now than they were eight years ago. I guess that really applies to all of the fields. The Council of State stated in its statement that a number of investigations are now under way. Then I have to ask the Council of State: is there any indication that the government is planning a big message in this field, as we propose today? Can the Storting expect a big message in the future in this field from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7733	First of all, thank you for all the expressions that it is nice to have me back again. I also think it is nice to be back. I believe that the work to be done by the Gjerdrum Committee is very important. They have been given a broad mandate to look at many different things – ranging from responsibilities to what the legislation is like today. Should changes be made etc. in order to ensure that we are better off against special mercury steps in the future? Whether this should be a big message or not, it is too early for me to decide now. I'll wait for what the sample comes with, and then we'll see what kind of follow-up it'll get. It will not be against me to be able to continue in government after the sample has submitted its report until the fall after the election. We can take that discussion then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7743	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7748	To the representative Seestad: Since the red-green government was set, luckily, a lot has happened. One of the things that has happened is digitisation, and the Committee has been visiting the Meteorological Institute and getting a good insight into what is developing in the field of digitalisation. It also makes us understand more about what's happening, and also understand where it can happen. Weather radar in Finnmark is some of the things to which it is granted, for example. – a large land area for which it is important to have digital information and which enables us to better model where events can occur. Competence is also part of prevention. The municipalities are an important part of having the first line. There's probably a debate we need to reinforce, because the recruitment of the technical subjects, both in the professional field and in the field of engineers and highly educated civil engineers, is a challenge in the Commune-Norway. We find examples of municipalities that have closed the door and turned off the light when it comes to engineers in the technical sector, and simply outsourced the entire operation of consulting companies. In a walking standby, it is not heard, at least not for me, reassuringly. When you're going to practice, it's important that you have internal competence. It brings me to capacity, which is also important to have in the municipalities. If there is something the government has provided, it is building up competence in the area of the NVE, just to build up under the municipalities and resources out there. Worksharing is also important here to prevent the events that will have to come closest in any case. One often thinks that these are many coastal and mountain phenomena, but in my «country», the Inland, there have been very many events in recent years. No one could predict that in Skåk there would be 20 degrees of heat, snow and rain during one night and large floods. There was a lot going on on the river and on the water that autumn. Likewise in Kvam, where we have spent a lot of money securing branches that two years in a row were hit by major floods. It also means that we need to work locally and regionally against deforestation and to keep some moorings in order to take care of late water. In many contexts, we need to work together to ensure that we are as secure as possible against floods and escapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7761	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7778	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7785	I've realized that being president of the Stortinget is reading and talking fast. At least the president here earlier when she was going through the climate plans. It went away, I'll tell you! In February 2018, the Energy and Environment Committee addressed its first monitoring report during this period, and it was ‘Waste as a Resource — Waste Policy and Circular Economy’. It was very good, much of what came from the government that was about waste as a resource, but so was it that the committee reacted to the fact that what was about circular economy was more a situation description than concrete, holistic measures. Then it was important to send a message back to the government that more efforts were needed here, and we did. We actually ordered a circular economy strategy from the government, which has so far let itself wait. We see that there is an important opportunity to invest in both business development, creating new jobs and working more sustainablely to take care of our globe and the environment, and it is important to clarify how Norway will work on this in the future. The EU has set up its programme. It came in March 2020 and is an important circular economy plan, and our neighbouring countries have also done an important job on this. Now, in April 2021, we are still waiting for the nation of Norway to adopt a really offensive strategy in this area, and I think it is pending that the representatives of the Central Party have actually made a proposal for the Grand Duchy now, which we are going to deal with here today. It deals with the public sector, where it should be possible to focus more on re-use in acquisitions, on warranties and on a procurement strategy to contribute to less transport and resource use, and on local, regional and national suppliers in this sector. Government procurement amounts to more than 520 billion. kr in sum, so there is a good opportunity to use our purchasing power to influence the market to impose stricter requirements in this area. The majority of the Committee consists of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Green Party on the Environment, which, in its recommendation, has nine proposals relating to the recycling profile. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7800	The representative Else-May Norderhus has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7805	If we are to achieve our objective of becoming a low-carbon society, it will be absolutely necessary to achieve sustainable value creation, both in terms of consumption and in terms of the production of goods and services. Increased well-being among more and more people in the world has given us increased consumption and much more use and waste, and all this contributes to an increasing pressure on the earth's carrying capacity. The government is well in the process of facilitating sustainable value creation and development through the forthcoming circular economy strategy, where less use and waste in several areas is an objective. The proposals that have been promoted in this matter, that the public should take the lead and act as a driving force for change and innovative solutions, are measures that are already part of the government's strategy. It is a strategy that is a direct follow-up to the EU circular economy action plan, the aim of which is to reduce the climate footprint of production and consumption, while at the same time increasing the contribution of secondary raw materials. It is important for a small country such as Norway that we cooperate with the EU in this area too, precisely in order to be much stronger in promoting common European rules dealing with demands for the whole life cycle — or footprint — of goods. The right agrees that the public should go ahead and make demands. It is also true that it is currently legal for the public sector to set up its procurement practices to help reduce environmental impacts and to promote climate-friendly solutions. So there are no specific instructions for the re-use of furniture and furniture in public property at present, but we are familiar with current practice, in which thorough assessments of the re-use of furniture and furniture are carried out when moving, whether to be built new or to upgrade the premises. It means a lot to all of us that the products we buy are of good quality for a long time, and that it is possible to track life information and whether the product can be repaired. That's the way we that consumers can influence. For this reason, the work on the rules governing claims and the burden of proof for the seller will be important when implementing the EU Consumer Purchases Directive in Norwegian law. The right considers that good cooperation with the EU is both right and important, so that we are many who stand together to influence in the right direction. We believe that cooperation and work on our own national strategy for the circular economy will contribute well to the achievement of Norway's objectives in climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7822	This is a debate that's really very interesting, because we're all opposed to littering, throwing things into nature, or consuming raw materials and overusing the globe. There's nothing in here that anyone wants. The reason we consume more is clearly that we've become richer – fortunately. At the same time, Norway has good return and waste management arrangements. We do not abuse our natural resources, and products can often be delivered where they are purchased, go to recovery, etc. In public, it is important that we have good and sensible arrangements. We spend the taxpayers' money, and they're not to be abused. It's important to reuse where it goes, where it's natural, and where it fits like that. Otherwise, strong consumer laws are important to ensure that the consumer is properly cared for. And then you have to be able to compare products with different quality, etc. For example, we have a strong guarantee scheme that allows a product to have a stronger guarantee in Norway than elsewhere. Furthermore, circular economy continues to work. The Progress Party has been involved in adopting a plan for it. We meet the government's work on it and will make demands on it when it comes to Stortinget. However, we have to recognise that in 2021 people in Norway buy new products. It is quite common that products such as a bicycle, a trailer, football shoes, a drill or whatever it may be, are something you like to buy alone, and something you want to own, not as part of a split layer or an hour-share arrangement with the neighborhood, as the Workers' Party, SV and the Green Party propose. For the Progress Party, it is obvious that it is not the taxpayers’ task to be with and share football shoes and nutmegs with often well-intermediated people. Having said that, I do not want to be misunderstood as saying that the Progress Party is against a system that has a social device aimed at children and young people, where you lend sports equipment to those who cannot afford it. It is a system such as the Progress Party, among others. strengthened in government. The reason for not repairing things in the store anymore today is that you have a cost level that is sky-high. Then I'm not talking about the cost level in China, because that's where they open coal-fired power stations and plants on current lines and spew CO 2 straight into the atmosphere, which most of the climate parties in Norway don't care so much about when it's talking about the cost level in Norway. Therefore, we should stop charging Norwegian companies charges which their competitors abroad do not have and which, in turn, drive prices up. Last week we discussed issues such as: The climate plan, which we have voted on today, which includes the Progress Party. said no to a CO 2 charging application that would give a hand bill to Chinese factories. Otherwise, I look forward to a good debate on the circular economy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7845	We have just dealt with the climate communication. What's become very obvious is that unfortunately we don't always see things in context, as we might well. Climate is treated separately, energy is treated separately, and the government has actually notified us of a circular economy message, which is also addressed separately. At the same time, pressures on natural resources are increasing sharply. It is important that resources are used and reused as efficiently as possible. Consumption and goods and services are, in total, the main cause of the global climate and environmental challenges. The amount of products each household and person consumes increases, and the total amount of resource consumption and the amount of waste in society increases in line with the consumption pattern. In my previous job in one of the food chains, I believe I heard that every 12 minutes a container from China went to the Norwegian consumer market. It says a little bit about the sizes we're talking about here. We have made it difficult to make wise, climate-friendly choices when consumers choose to buy new products rather than repair the used product. Often it is cheaper and easier to buy new ones, or technology and design have evolved, which means you have to buy new ones. If you're going to be able to twist the consumption pattern, you need positive instruments that affect it. There is a need for increased knowledge and information to promote consumer power and to enable consumers to make sustainable choices. We need to help consumers put the circular economy ahead of increased consumption, for example. by increasing knowledge of product information, complaints, reuse, repairability and material recovery. Consumers must also know that it is possible to impose quality and durability requirements. It has been made quite clear, among other things. through the NRK series Slössjokket, that we have slept an hour in the way we use and consume our resources. It became quite clear that there is a need to amend legislation to increase the life of a product. Of course, there are several ways to do that. through improved design, technical standardisation, cost-effective repair options and requirements for more accessible parts. For consumers, this will be important, inter alia: with increased guarantee period for goods purchased in the store and online, that the durability and availability of spare parts are incorporated into the Consumer Purchases Act and that stricter product design requirements are imposed so that the goods can actually be separated and repaired. Requirements for waste prevention, recovery and increased use of recycled materials are important for achieving the green shift and circular economy. For this reason, the public has a particular responsibility as a purchaser, a particularly important role in that work, by imposing stricter requirements on the whole life cycle of a product or service. Public procurement is a strong driver in this context and can contribute to changing the nature of the market and to raising and developing innovative solutions. I'll bring it up to the proposal Center Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7860	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7865	Last autumn I visited Innherred Renovation outside Levanger. The trucks came in here with unfurnished kitchen cabinets and other used wood. The wood was here for tiles sent northwards to the timber factory in Hattfjelldal. There'll be tiles for new chipboards. The wall of the Innherred Renovation administrative building outside Levanger is covered with particle boards made of recycled wood. What I saw was part of the core of the new "buzzwords" of the environmental struggle: circular economy. What we have recently considered as waste is now a resource that can be used to create new products. Our things have to be longer, used again and could be picked apart once they're exhausted, so that they can become new things – like in a circle. Actually, this isn't new. Actually, this is something pretty old, taking care of what you have. The public can play a central role. Every year government trades goods and services for 400 to 500 billion. kr. The goods and services chosen by the State and by the public authorities are of great importance to the market. There are especially three things we can do. First of all, we can claim that the goods we purchase will last longer. I think more than I have experienced that the mobile phones we have used in the last four years have had to be replaced after a relatively short period of time. They do not have a long life until the battery is too low or they respond too slowly to commands. It wasn't like that before. The mobiles we had before had significantly longer durability. I am convinced that if mobile manufacturers could produce mobile phones with a long shelf life before, they can do the same. We can therefore increase the rights of consumers and increase the guarantee period in order for the goods to last longer. The other thing we can do is demand that the goods can be repaired. Producers of a good must take responsibility for a longer period of the life of the good than at present. Customers must be able to deliver goods and have them repaired if they fail. The third is that goods sold must be capable of being collected from each other after the end of use and the parts must be able to be reused. In our technological dollbeds, it is valuable metals that should be kept and used again, but then the goods must be built for recycling. I should like to take this up with the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7882	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7887	The debate, and so far as the setting is concerned, shows that there is a common commitment that we're going to use things longer and create a code that means we need to spend less of the resources on Earth and then throw them away. It is common sense and a policy that I believe there is broad support in this Chamber. What is important is that we work together with the countries around us and build on the cooperation we are in, in the EU, by ensuring that there are equal rules, and that we have standards that are driving internationally to break down product standards and provide a better life span. It is also important that Norway has national measures, so it is gratifying and good that the government has warned that one comes up with a national strategy. It must be a circular economy strategy that contributes to Norway's achievement of our environmental and climate policy objectives and that takes care of and strengthens Norwegian competitiveness. In the debate, there is also the scope for public procurement, and the action plan under preparation also provides a good guide to ensure that public practices can go ahead and ensure that when municipalities, states and states make purchases, they do so in such a way that we improve standards and provide more circular economy. Some of the things I'm also very happy that we've managed to do by using public funds in the state budget are that we've got a promise to Omatt, a trade association for the recycling organisations. It is an initiative that came after the Christian People's Party negotiated it into the state budget, and has enabled recycling organisations and re-use shops to strengthen their work by exchanging experience, influencing policies and strengthening the important industry they are, including in the future. Let me conclude by saying that I have noticed that there has been a loose proposal, which has also been mentioned in the media in the old state of Sogn and Fjordane, such as. address some changes to the law on second-hand trade and trade, especially for people under 18 years of age, and some simplifications that a person would like to have in place to help good local initiatives. I think it's an affordable proposal that has a very good intention in it. I can't promise any agreement to it when it comes as a loose proposal a little late in the debate, but I think it's a positive initiative that we should look at more, and that more parties should work to get in place in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7903	Yesterday it was Norway’s ‘Earth Overshoot Day’. That means that if everyone else were to have the same consumption as the Nordics, we would need over three Earths to produce the resources or the biocapacity needed to maintain our consumption. The Green Party will help to move that date to 31 December every year, and we will do that by throwing the use-and-throwing society on the waste-thungs of history. We will distort the consumption of today's environmentally-polluting goods and services to profitable resource-smart solutions as well as culture and experiences. We want to facilitate sharing, recycling, reuse and repairs, so that we can cope even more with the materials we have already taken from nature. There are several good suggestions in this setting. For example, the Centre Party has almost word-by-word adopted the 2018 Green Party's proposal to ban products with built-in planned obsolescence. It is very nice that the Greens can inspire the Centre Party to cooperate closely on better environmental policies, especially when they themselves insist on acting as an environmental counter-pollution. The Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens we will increase support for equipment centres and At the same time, it is interesting to see what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV will not be involved in. In the notes, we agreed that it is often cheaper and easier to buy new than to repair or reuse, and that it is among the main causes of increasing consumption. Nevertheless, it is only the Green Party that is willing to do something about it, by removing VAT on repairs and introducing a new environmental tax that favours goods with a low environmental impact. Both parts would support a number of the other suggestions in the setting. In Norway, many people are tricked into buying cheap, new and bad. Such goods are produced in low-cost countries, but repairs are expensive because the repairers have Norwegian salary levels. If we don't do anything about this, for example. By removing VAT on repairs, most people throughout Norway will continue to use and throw as before. We are therefore promoting a proposal today because the government has imposed a lot of bureaucratic procedures on private users, such as registration obligations on goods with low value. We will also allow them to accept goods from people under 18 years of age. The current law on second-hand trade is an unnecessary burden on private contractors who will make it difficult to operate a second-hand trade. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7914	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7919	The representatives behind the proposal we are discussing today point to measures that are related to the task of creating a more circular economy with less use and waste. There's something I'm very busy about, and the government will later present our own national strategy for the circular economy, which some people have also mentioned in their articles. Central to the circular economy is to give insights and rules so that we get a better product, which has a longer life span, that can be repaired, that can be recovered, that can contain secondary raw material. All of this is central to our work on a circular economy strategy. It is also important to ensure that much of this work is done in cooperation with the EU, thus ensuring that the incentives and rules will contribute to a better product throughout the European market, which is the market we are part of. This is at the heart of the EU circular economy action plan from March last year. The EU is working on broad regulatory frameworks that cover the entire lifecycle of the product. The aim is to reduce the climate and environmental footprint of production and consumption and to increase the contribution of secondary raw materials. They point to seven key value chains in this way: electronic and electrical product, battery and running gear, packaging, plastic, textile, construction products and food. The proposal for battery regulation is the first holistic regulation of the entire value chain. Some of the measures to be taken in the same direction are requirements for the integration of secondary raw materials into new products, documentation of climate footprints and sustainable supply chains, increased producer responsibility, new rights for consumers and new obligations for public purchasers. It will directly change the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises and consumers. Through good cooperation with the EU and a national strategy for the circular economy, the government will pursue an active policy for the circular economy in Norway to contribute to the objectives of environmental and climate policy and strengthen the Norwegian competitiveness. At the same time, all of us as consumers can do a lot to make it less use and throw away. There are also many good private initiatives, such as: exchange circles on social media and reusable shops. Centres lending equipment, such as: BUA and the Tax Chamber not only contribute to the participation of several children in outdoor leisure activities without having to purchase expensive equipment, but are also important to reduce consumption. The public also has a role to play in facilitating less use and waste. By means of a national incentive scheme to include children and young people, equipment centres may apply for support for the establishment of operations. The scheme is worth about 370 million today. kr and is one of many ways the government is helping to strengthen the circular economy and get less use and throw at society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7941	Today, I would probably have wanted the Council of State to have the opportunity to vote in the Chamber, because when I look at the letter from the Council of State on the matter – if one, for example. only takes item II of the setting – it says : ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals on how the state and the public sector can have a recycling strategy for their own construction and inventory instead of building and purchasing new ones.’ In the Government's response, there are very positive feedbacks. It says that ‘the government will see whether it is likely to also establish a strategy for re-use of furniture.’ I interpret that the Council of State is in favour of this proposal, a yes-man in that way, while the representatives of the government parties in the Committee say no to this proposal. Then I wonder, why is there a gap between the fact that we actually have a government that is in favour, but then the representatives in the Chamber do not dare to be in favour. Can the Council of State say anything about that communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7951	Yes, I'm absolutely a yes-man, and I do understand that most of the government parties are their representatives in the committee as well. But it is clear that it is important to have something specific to say yes and no to. What the proposal is doing is just asking the government to suggest something, that is, the government has to think of something clever, and I can promise the government that it's thinking crazy all the time. on this theme. In the climate plan, which the Stortinget had delighted to vote on before today, we also write a little bit about how the government wants us to use the current building further and ensure the reuse of movable property. It is also important in a climate perspective, not only in a circular economic perspective. We are also working on a holistic strategy for construction and property in the state civil sector, and we are looking at this in the strategy for the circular economy. So if the representative Norderhus is concerned that the government is not working on good proposals, I can reassure the representative that it is doing the government, and we probably don't need the Storting to decide that we should do what we're already doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7956	That's how the government works, but the government doesn't deliver. The government has not responded to this, and that is why I want to ask the Council of State when we can expect the government to deliver on this, since you are positive and say that you are working on it. It is clear that it is limited how long you should work on a matter. At the same time, it is important to work enough. So that's the question, when does the answer come?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7961	As I said, we're working on this in a little bit of different tracks. The one thing is the circular economy strategy, he comes in ours. It is in the cards that he is fully inquired into our discussions in government, so I like to put him forward. I hope he can give a good answer within what is pointed to here. There are also several processes that are relevant, such as: is now, as I briefly mention, working on a holistic strategy for construction and property in the state civil sector. This is the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is working on it, so I'm afraid I don't have the timeline for where the work is. With that, we can certainly give the representative Norderhu's answer by correcting the question to the appropriate person.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7966	I also look forward to the government coming up with its circular economy strategy, and I hope that it will include a number of commitments, among others. for the public, related to the purchase of goods and services capable of stimulating more reuse, more recycling, of the goods purchased. Then I notice that the Council of State in its contribution places great emphasis on what we can do with the EU, and that we should get things done with them. There is no doubt that if you get things together with several countries, it will be important. But my question is: if you do not get the EU first, will there still be national requirements and rules in the circular strategy coming to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7973	Yes, in the circular economic strategy we are working on, we are going to look at some Norwegian issues – of course – and whether there is room and desire for special regulation. So it's clear we're looking at it. But there is no doubt that the framework for the work on circular economy – and actually the framework for all climate and environmental policies – is international cooperation. Not least this is true, because when we talk about regulating the product, it's natural to talk about it in the market where the products are traded and regulated, and that market is the European market. If Norway had had very many special regulations on, for example: a range of consumables, it would have become very complicated, and secondly not very effective. We are a country with 5.2 million inhabitants, and it is clear that when a market with 450 million inhabitants imposes tough environmental requirements, as the EU does, for example. in the field of chemicals and a number of other areas – higher demands than any other market in the world – it really does turn into business models and encourages proper change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7980	One doesn't have to disagree with that. But let me take one concrete example that I also used in my post, namely the timber factory Arbor in Hattfjelldal, which today produces particle boards, among other things. based on old wood carved by Inherred Renovation. Arbor says they can produce chipboards with 70 pst. recycled wood. If the public, which I would think will also purchase some billboard in a year, had demanded that the billboards they are going to buy should contain 60 pst. or 70 pst. recycled wood – is there a type of requirement that the Council of State sees fit into its strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7986	Yes, it is clear that making demands to use inputs that are reused is one thing you can assess policy regulation of. I also mentioned in my article that it is one of the elements that is now coming into the work that the EU is doing with a battery, and that it is wise to do so. When it comes to the exact extent to which one should make such demands for particle board in connection with the public procurement in Norway, I don't think I'm going to decide on it on a standing footing. But I can say that we are now working on a separate action plan for green public procurement where such questions are absolutely topical and important. As the representative Haltbrecken is also aware, we have also just delivered and voted on a climate plan here in Stortinget, where there are a number of new green demands for public procurement. It's probably the most climate-related issue, but there's no doubt that using the public purchasing muscle to promote both the circular economy and cutting greenhouse gases is something that this government is busy about, and that we're going to do more and more of, and I'm taking with me the tape on particle board in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e7993	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e8000	I take the floor because the representative Else-May Norderhus in the reply here says that the government does not deliver on circular economy, for example. Then the representative of Norderhus' house has gone by, literally, that the government has delivered 150 million. to initiate measures on infrastructure. We've got an industrial network, for example, led by Agder, to catch up on the infrastructure section related to the industrial park in Norway, which today has material recovery in its portfolio. How we're going to build up industrial parks in the process, in order to make use of the resources that are in circulation, is one part of it. Like what I mentioned in my previous post, when we discussed floods and escapes, digitization is also very important here. Finn.no has been one of the important channels for more reuse, reuse and sharing. Sharing is another keyword for less use and throw, where one makes available what is left over to someone, but to the joy of others. Then the public is an important actor here. Governments pointed to, among other things, the construction sector, where one of the major climate gains will be to reduce and re-use old buildings more. In Snertingdal, in my municipality, Gjøvik, the Central Party has the rapporteur – absolutely nothing wrong to say about it, the Left has participated in putting him in. But the mansion, which is from the 1950s, which is very well maintained, there were replaced windows four years ago, a new roof was added five years ago, it's painted, there's a tiny little business garden in the village today, is now to be demolished. The question is: what does one gain by it, and where do the investments made a few years ago go back into the circuit? There is a lot to decide about, and there are a lot of actors involved in making decisions. It's not just a national decision that's going to happen, at least not in a strategy that, as a society, we're taking care of the resources that we've been running around. Especially for our continent, Europe, which has a little less natural resources to take off than some other continents have, it's very important that we have to house better with them. That strategy is therefore also of particular importance. But the money has already begun to deliver, and it is on the left that the circular economy is on the map and has come to the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e8011	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e8026	One year ago, I gave my first statement on gender equality policy. No one saw how the year was going to be. The administration of the Korona has been at the top of the government's agenda. Gender equality policy statement 2021 provides a status in promoting equality and diversity in all sectors. The presentation has eight main themes and is about, among other things: work, education, culture and themes such as discrimination, violence, health and international cooperation. I would also like to devote a great deal of space to a review of the effects of the coronary apathy on equality. The pandemic characterizes everything we do now, but in the gender equality country of Norway, we are aware that equality is not just an area of our own, but is part of everything we do, in all politics. This is also why Norway achieves very well. Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. We're number two in the world. We have little difference in employment between women and men, only 5 percentage points difference. More and more women are working full-time. Compared to 2013, 90,000 more women work full-time today. Compared to many other countries, there are small pay differentials between women and men. This year, employers, as part of the follow-up to the obligation of activity and presentation, will for the first time identify wage differences and involuntary part-time work. All 93 pst. children aged 1 to 5 years are accommodated in kindergarten. All 78 pst. of the children who were present in kindergarten during the closure in March and April 2020 had parents in socially critical professions. This is a clear picture of the central importance of kindergarten to society. Never have so many fathers taken parental leave as today. We are also in the process of introducing gender-neutral job titles in all state activities, and «Men in health» have record high carbon in 2021. 400 men with a background to different occupations, several of them unemployed, are now in the process of training as health professionals. There has also been a weak increase in the share of women at the top of private business since 2018. We are also going to present a big message about sustainability objectives. The coronary apathy necessitates careful monitoring of future developments. We're going to prevent setbacks in rights and equality awards that we've won, and we're going to keep thinking about equality in everything we do. We must combat violence in close relationships and negative social control. The development of the coronary apathy is alarming, both nationally and internationally, and there is reason to fear the long-term consequences of the coronary apathy in terms of work and the economy for people with disabilities. My first main theme in the presentation is the gender-based education and labour market, and it comes in seven points. Paragraph 1 is a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. We've come a long way with equality in Norway, but we're not on target. Because it's still going to be 85 pst. by us in a profession dominated by either men or women. While women work more frequently within e.g. education, health and social work, men work more often in the private sector, in e.g. industry, construction. This shared labour market has consequences for gender differences in wages, employment and career development. Girls and boys must have the freedom and the ability to choose the education and professions they want, without being restricted by notions of what fits girls or boys. If we're going to ensure the best solutions for the future, we can't just recruit from 50 pst. by the population. We need more women in technology, and we need more men in health care, because it's about our ability to solve the major societal challenges and about Norway's competitiveness. The government is working on a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. The goal is as simple as it is complicated: more men enter women-dominated professions and more women enter man-dominated professions. Point 2 is a strategy for better equality in fisheries. Norway is Europe’s largest fishing nation and the world’s ninth largest fishing nation. Men are far more involved than women in this important industry. The Ministry of Food and Fisheries is therefore to develop a strategy for better equality in fisheries. The aim is to balance the gender distribution in the fishing profession and to ensure that both sexes have equal opportunities to participate in the profession. Point 3 is high employment. Norwegian women are at the world top in terms of participation in the world of work. Nevertheless, the participation of migrant women in employment is clearly lower than that of majority women. Increasing the proportion of women with a migrant background in working life is therefore an important step for the government. By 2020 was 75 pst. by women employed. For men, the figure was 80 pst, for the 20-66 age group. The figures for immigrant women vary according to the country they come from. Women from Somalia and Pakistan are at least part of the working life, 34 and 38 pst respectively. The reasons for lower participation in employment for women with a migrant background are, of course, complex. This may be due to a lack of education and relevant competence. Something can be due to prejudices and stereotypical perceptions. There may be discrimination, there may be a lack of recognition of qualifications by employers, but it may also be due to traditional and cultural reasons that we call negative social control. In order to reduce the gap in skills, the government is now implementing an integration reform. The aim is to reform and strengthen the means of qualifying newcomers and immigrants to the Norwegian labour market. Central to the reform is the introduction of a completely new law of integration, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. In order to provide a more adapted offer to each individual, differentiated programme time is introduced for the participants in the introduction programme. Controlling Norwegian so well that language problems do not stand in the way when an applicant is applying for a job is important. Therefore, the requirement for a certain number of hours of Norwegian training has been replaced by a requirement for the individual to achieve a minimum level in Norwegian. Overall, the integration reform shall contribute to the early integration of more immigrants, and in particular refugees, into the Norwegian society, the sustainable integration of them into the labour market and the economic autonomy of them. One of the objectives of the government’s integration reform is to allow more people to take formal training within the framework of the introduction programme. Several shall be able to take upper secondary education and diplomas and the programmes offered shall be better adapted to the individual. For participants with the final objective of completing secondary education and it is realistic that they can achieve this objective, the Programme may be extended to a maximum of four years. Young people under the age of 25 who have not completed secondary education shall, as a general rule, have regular education as part of their introduction programme. Point 4 is working time. The government will facilitate a full-time culture in the workplace. Several full-timers would strengthen the budget's margin of action by several tens of billions over a decade, I think the estimate is about 30. Figures from the Labour Force Survey to the SSB from 2020 show signs that more and more women are working full-time. In fact, there are 90,000 more women on full time now than it was in 2013, when the government took over. Similarly, the proportion of women working part-time continues to decrease and is now 35 pst. Immigrant women work more often than the population. In order to facilitate full-time work, the government has proposed and adopted changes to the Working Environment Act in recent years. This year employers will also monitor the use of involuntary part-time work for the first time and present it in the annual report for 2021. This is part of the obligation to report activity. Point 5 is pay. Several years of advice under this government has slowed the difference between women and men's average monthly earnings, but probably decreased. However, the most recent SSB figures show that there has been a slight increase in the gender pay gap in 2020 compared to 2019. It has its natural explanations. In 2020, women made an average of 87,5 pst. of the wages and salaries of men. The corresponding figures for 2019 were 87.8 pst. If we look at the figures, it turns out that the differences decreased in all sectors. This apparent paradox is related to the way in which the coronary apathy has affected employment and shifts across industries and employees with different levels of pay. It has provided large compositional effects that have an impact on the interpretation of wage developments. We have taken important steps to reduce the pay gap between women and men: for the first time this year employers are also required to carry out a gender pay survey and report on this in the annual report for 2021. Action against the gender-based labour market is essential to reduce the pay gap. The actions of the forthcoming strategy for a more equal education and labour market could help to reduce the pay gap between women and men. Point 6 is gender-neutral job titles. It is important to have a working life that shows that jobs are open to both women and men. Gender-neutral job titles shall be introduced in all State activities. This work is now in full swing. From the summer on, the title Employment Man at Svalbard is replaced by the Employment Master at Svalbard. Until then, health nurses have been replaced by health nurses and counties are state administrators. The last point under this main theme is point 7 – Legacy meadows. The parental quota is important and the government has introduced a three-thirds parental leave period. These include: that employers must have equal expectations for the absence of female and male workers in relation to children, and that it gives men greater room to be father. When parents share care responsibilities and absence from work more equally, the government is sure that the pattern of working life will also change over time. It is therefore gratifying to say that never before have fathers taken out as many days with parental pennies as now. We see that fathers' withdrawals from parental pendulums change as changes are made to the parental quota. Now it's important that it works over time to contribute to more equality. My second main theme, which I shall briefly focus on, is the power of diversity. Art and cultural life, sport and volunteering have important roles in a well-functioning democracy. These are are arenas that contribute to community, inclusion, tolerance and participation in society. The government wants a force for diversity. The aim is that the arts and culture, media, volunteering and sport should include everyone, regardless of, for example: gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, functionality, social and economic background and place of residence. Increased diversity is at the heart of several of the Ministry of Culture’s budget commitments for 2021. For example, we're distributing about 30 million. to continue work on diversity, integration and equality in the field of art and culture by supporting institutions and actors that have applied for support for diversity work. We also continue the role of the Culture Council as a national coordinator for increased diversity, inclusion and participation in the cultural sector. My third main theme is discrimination, and I shall deal with it in six points. Paragraph 1 is a new LHBTIQ action plan. Norway has come a long way in ensuring the rights of LHBTIQ individuals. At the same time, we know that skews are particularly vulnerable to hate crime, discrimination, harassment and violence. In line with the Granavolden platform, the government shall: work to safeguard the rights of LHBTIQ persons; contribute to transparency active anti-discrimination contribute to the competence of this group as part of the framework for all relevant training courses; in front of the international community to promote rights for sexual minorities This is why the government has started work on a new LHBTIQ action plan. The aim is to contribute to a society that is safe for everyone, and with greater transparency. The action plan shall be submitted in the summer of 2021 in accordance with the Government's plan. Point 2 is a society for all, the government's strategy for gender equality for people with disabilities, 2020–2030. Today, people with disabilities face barriers to full equality. Something is due to societal barriers, which is due to prejudice and stereotypical perceptions. The numbers are nevertheless alarming: one in three people with disabilities has experienced offensive statements. 11 pst. has heard that they do not have the right to live. An inclusive society is about what values we use, but also about how we stand up for each other and switch to bad treatment. The government will set down a selection to investigate how to secure a society that provides room for diversity and diversity. The selection shall include, inter alia: identify attitudes and trends affecting diversity and diversity, and what action we need to take to eliminate prejudices and improve knowledge of human rights. Knowledge of human rights is also an important measure in the Action Plan A society for all – equality, democracy and human rights from 2019. Point 3 is a notification to the EEAS. The government is working on a communication to the Stortinget about the human rights of people with developmental disabilities. The government wants to strengthen the ability of people with developmental disabilities to be heard and to contribute to the policies that shape their lives. In the Communication, we aim to clarify and clarify what the basis of human law, including self-determination, equality and participation, requires in different areas of rights. The notification of the impact could provide a clear direction for future policies. At the same time, we want to give a good picture of the status through comprehensive descriptions and analyses of today's challenges in the field. Through the message, we will continue the government's work to ensure the human rights of all people with disabilities. Point 4 is the fight against racism and discrimination. The government has significantly increased its efforts against racism and discrimination in recent years. The effort is broad and systematic. The government's work against extremism, racism and hateful expressions is coordinated by its own State Secretaryial Committee across eight departments. The Government has also established a new system of grants against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions. The grant scheme is the first of its kind and is worth 8 million. NOK 2021. The Government follows up the Action Plan against Racism and Discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and religion. Many different groups experience racism and discrimination in Norwegian society. Samer is one of the groups that experience discrimination. Hatred and hoarseness also have a negative impact on Sami languages and the development of Sami culture, which is already in a vulnerable situation. Close contact with the Samets and Sami communities is important in order to target efforts against discrimination against the Sami. Discrimination against Muslims is an increasing problem. In fact, some research shows that the entire 27 pst. of the population of Norway have anti-Muslim attitudes. Therefore, in the autumn of 2020, the government launched the Action Plan against Discrimination and Hatred Against Muslims. As an action in this plan, we consider a system of insight into Muslim identity, with young people as a target group. Antisemitism is a social problem, and it should not occur, but it occurs. The government presented a new antisemitism action plan for the period 2021-2023 on the day of Holocaust, 27 January this year. The new plan contains 12 targeted measures to combat antisemitism in Norway. School measures, knowledge acquisition of antisemitism and mapping of attitudes towards Jews in the population are examples of action in the plan. The government presented a major report on national minorities in December. Policies towards national minorities are based on the principle of equality, equal treatment and non-discrimination. The government believes that everyone should be safe in the physical space and on the network. Work against hateful expressions and hate crime continues with unreserved strength. The strategy against hateful expressions has contributed to significant knowledge development and to increased awareness of the theme. The government is to establish a national environment of competence against hate crime, and this environment of competence is, of course, to be established in the police. The freedom of expression Commission will deliver its report by March 2022. As part of its mandate, the Commission shall consider measures to discourage the spread of hateful and other illegal expressions in social media. In 2021, a national hate crime competence environment shall be established to support all police districts. This will be an important contribution to strengthening police national efforts to prevent and combat hate crime. Point 5 is the Universal Design Action Plan 2021–2025. The Government continues to impose high universal design requirements on the development of housing, infrastructure and industrial areas and improves compliance with legislation on the universal design of ICT solutions in the public sector. The government will present a universal design action plan before the summer. That's the target. Universal design of buildings, infrastructure, transport and ICT is the theme of the Action Plan. A broad recording process has been carried out with relevant actors. Paragraph 6 is age discrimination. Living longer and growing older is an expression that we have succeeded in a good welfare society. At the same time, older people face both physical and invisible barriers in order to participate as they wish — in working life, in volunteering, in their own lives. This reduces the quality of life of the elderly. In working life, the picture is complex. The retirement age has increased since the introduction of the pension reform. At the same time, the annual ‘Senior Policy Barometer’ shows that at the end of the 50s job seekers are often not invited to interview or be hired. We need adaptable seniors in the workplace. It is therefore positive that it is the oldest workers who have liked best with home offices under the pandemic. Competence replenishment is also important for seniors, and government competence reform Lifelong learning applies to all ages. My fourth main theme is violence and harassment, in five points. Paragraph 1 is the Action Plan against violence in close relationships 2021-2025. Fighting violence against women and violence in close relationships is high on the government's priority list. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of this work. We have undoubtedly remaining challenges. I still think it is worth noting that we have strengthened the work and given this area more attention. In order to further strengthen its efforts, the government has decided to develop a new action plan on violence in close relations with a separate section on violence and abuse in Sami communities. The plan shall be submitted in June 2021. It shall give direction to a long-term work aimed at preventing and combating violence in close relationships, coordinated and knowledge-based. The action plan will also take into account the experience we are now making in relation to the coronary apathy. Paragraph 2 is the Action Plan against Rape 2019-2022. Over 9 pst. of all women being raped at least once in their lives, half before they reach the age of 18. We have to do everything we can to ensure that no one is exposed to this. The debate on where to go has been going for several years, and several other countries have placed greater emphasis on lack of consent in the formulation of legislation. We think we have a code that covers most situations, but we still have to assess whether it is sufficient, or whether it is missing. Today, imprisonment can be punished for up to 21 years by sexual intercourse through the use of violence or threatening behaviour, or if the person is unconscious or for other reasons is unable to oppose the act. The Criminal Felony Council shall also consider alternatives to a consent-based rape definition. The measure is part of the Government's action plan against rape. Paragraph 3 is the escalation plan against violence and assault 2017-2021. We now go into the last year of the escalation plan against violence and assault. Since 2017, we have stepped up our efforts to combat violence. The total bet for the escalation plan is approximately 1.1 billion. kr. In 2021, the investment is over 96 million. kr. This shall apply to: parental-assistance measures the alarm phone for children and young people; the line of violence and assault; post-protection of violent children establishment of a national Sami Centre for the Protection of Children, Family Protection and Crisis Centres further strengthening the provision of treatment to children and young people with harmful sexual behaviour and persons at risk of committing abuses against children; Point 4 is a new action plan against negative social control and honour-related violence. All people have the right to live their lives in freedom from negative social control, honor-related violence, coercion and sexual mutilation. These are persistent challenges, for several reasons: it is an equality challenge, a public health problem and a possible barrier to integration. Combating this is a high priority of the government. Significant efforts have been made. We've set up cross-sectoral cooperation, and several vulnerable people get help. At the same time, we have reason to believe that there are still great darknesses. The government has therefore decided to create a new action plan, freedom from negative social control and honour-related violence, in order to continue its efforts. It is scheduled to be launched this summer. I myself have been open about my own struggle for love. My family and relatives did not accept my choice. There was a fight against negative social control. We won, but I know that strong negative social control limits and destroys the lives of very many young people and adults. Point 5 is the fight against sexual harassment. Sexual harassment remains a major problem for women's opportunities in the workplace and in society. The decision has been taken by the Government to draw up a notification of default. We're very happy about that. The notification shall provide a broad review of different fields of work and sectors of society and propose measures to help prevent sexual harassment. Work shall cover all types of harassment, threats and violence. The establishment by the government of a low-threshold service for dealing with sexual harassment issues has been an important milestone in 2020. This offer provides persons who are subjected to sexual harassment with a quick and free alternative to legal proceedings. Subject of discrimination, ten cases of sexual harassment were dealt with in 2020. It confirms that the establishment of this offer has enhanced the protection of those exposed to sexual harassment. The defence continues its work to combat bullying and sexual harassment with the support of, among other things, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The screening of the defence for 2020 showed a slight decrease in the proportion of people experiencing bullying and sexual harassment. The regular implementation of the survey every two years provides the defence with a good basis for evaluating and implementing new targeted actions. The Ministry of Defence will in 2021 start work on developing a similar study for the other enterprises in the defence sector. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is working to challenge the Norwegian implementation of ILO Convention No. 190 on the abolition of violence and harassment in working life. This will include, inter alia: be necessary to look at legislative acts beyond the scope of the Employment Environment Act, in particular the Equality and Discrimination Act and the Criminal Code. The Ministry has set up a working group with the social partners to assess the Convention. My fifth main theme is health, in three points. Point 1 is a Norwegian public investigation, NOU, on female health. Gender has an impact on health and on health challenges. On the one hand, there are differences in biology and cultural, social and structural conditions and gender equality. To follow up on this, a sample has been set up responsible for developing a NOU on women’s health and health from a gender perspective. The selection will find out more about the health of women in Norway and the challenges for women in terms of the risk and occurrence of disease and the use of health and care services. The selection will also look at how gender differences and gender perspectives are managed in public health, health care services and health research and education Point 2 is an action plan for the prevention of suicides by 2020–2025. Every year between 500 and 700 people commit suicide in Norway. Men are largely overrepresented in these statistics. The whole of two out of three cases occur among men. Last year the government presented an action plan to prevent suicide. With the action plan, we are introducing a zero vision for suicide in Norway. The zero vision applies to the whole community and underlines our shared responsibility in this work. We need to work more systematically and more knowledge-based to reduce the number of suicides. We all, but perhaps especially men, need to talk more about what plagues us – about the difficult breach, about the debt that has grown, about losing the job, about the dark thoughts. We need to learn more about how we deal with evil thoughts and difficult life situations and know about the offers that exist. It's important to know that you're not alone, and that it's help to get. Point 3 is the related strategy and action plan 2021–2025. Studies show that women take on more care than men. Among other things, a study shows that 33 pst. by the women gave care to parents with whom they did not live, compared to 19 p.m. of the men. Recent SSB figures show that the proportion of middle-aged men providing assistance or supervision to sick, elderly or disabled persons has increased from 19 to 22 pst. In other words, it might indicate that we also see changes in this area. In December 2020, the government launched a comprehensive strategy and action plan. The strategy points to gender differences in care and includes, among other things: the objective of recognising relatives as a resource, as well as the proper and holistic care of all relatives, so that relatives can live good lives and combine the relative role with education or work. The strategy has been developed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in cooperation with several other departments. My sixth main theme is business life, managers and entrepreneurs, in four points. Point 1 is gender balance at the top of private business. CORE Top Leader Survey 2020 shows that there has been a weak increase in the female share at the top since 2018. The proportion of women in the senior management group has increased from 22 to 25 pst. In Norway's 200 largest companies, only 14 pst. by the Chief Executive, Executive Director, a woman. Less than three out of ten members of the senior management groups are a woman. This government is actively working for an equal society, not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of inclusion and representation of minorities. I have therefore asked CORE to extend the barometer to show the proportion of leaders with a migrant background or a minority background. Point 2 is leaders in the state sector. In the state sector, there has been a steady increase in the proportion of female leaders in recent years, from 46 pst. in 2015 to 51 pst. in 2020. If we look at the top management level in the state in 2020, the share of women in the departments was 38 pst, while in the Directorates there were 37 pst. upper management women. In other words, it is still important to keep an eye on the development of gender equality in the top management level in the country. Paragraph 3 is the head of companies with State ownership. The State which owns clear expectations of the State-owned companies in relation to the gender balance of the companies. The State expects companies to work on the recruitment and development of employees and to have clear objectives and measures to improve the gender balance of companies. The work of the companies in the field is followed up in the ownership dialogue. For the companies with State ownership, for example: the average share of the women in the management group of the companies as at 31 December 2019 was 42 pst, and 40 pst of the companies had at the same time the female managing director. Point 4 is women's foundation. The government's priority is to facilitate women's start-up. Women entrepreneurs are important for the government to succeed in creating a sustainable welfare society and addressing the major societal challenges. Three times as many men as women choose to become entrepreneurs in Norway. There is a strikingly stable and large difference between women and men in whether they choose to become entrepreneurs. The government wants to make it easier for women to be more attractive to bet on business start-ups and to succeed. This is why the government presented an action plan for women entrepreneurs in 2019. The action plan shows that women use the research and innovation instrument much less than men. The instrument is aware of the challenge and has taken action to bring together more skilled women entrepreneurs and managers. My seventh main theme is the gender impact of the coronary apathy. The Government may indicate good progress in the field of equality policy. Nevertheless, there is little doubt that the coronary apathy may have had consequences for development. During the last year’s debate on gender equality policy, the Stortinget decided to ask the government to ‘monitor the impact of the coronary crisis on the gender equality field and return to Stortinget with results and findings as appropriate’. The management of the pandemic has been at the top of the agenda for this government. As Minister for Equal Opportunities, I am particularly concerned with the consequences of the pandemic on equal opportunities in working life, violence in close relationships and the situation of people with disabilities. The pandemic and the measures against infection have potentially serious consequences for those at risk of violence and abuse. When more people stay home for a long time, there is a risk that violence in close relationships increases. We know that. Fewer victims of violence and practitioners contacted relief services during the period of the strongest closures in spring 2020. This indicates that violence has been less exposed. Since 12 March 2020, stringent measures have led to lower levels of activity in crisis centres, suggesting that there is a greater proportion of vulnerable people who are not seeking help are unable to seek help. The decline is particularly high in the immigrant population. There is reason to believe that infectious diseases have reinforced the negative consequences for many children and young people living with negative social control and family violence. Schools that were closed down, for example. dialogues at school, and minority counsellors were given an increase in enquiries when physical meetings were again possible. Increased digital activity poses a risk of increased digital violence and children and young people being exposed to sexual abuse via the Internet. A study by the NKVTS on violence, assault and mental health among young people during the pandemic showed that almost half of the youths who had experienced sexual abuse and online abuse experienced this for the first time during the closure of schools in spring 2020. These are alarming reports, and this takes the government most seriously. Crisis centres were defined in March as a socially critical function. The offer is therefore covered by the reporting procedures for societally critical functions, and my colleague in the Ministry of Children and Family has been updated on the situation on a weekly basis. Children’s, youth and family directorates, Bufdir, have dialogue with the government administrators, who report any deviations in the offer. A campaign aimed at victims of violence, in particular with a migrant background, or known victims of violence, has been ongoing from December 2020 to January 2021. The aim has been to communicate the availability and safety of the crisis centre offer and that the advice to stay at home does not apply to those who do not have it safely in their own home. Nevertheless, I fear that we must acknowledge that we do not reach everyone who is in a completely unsustainable situation. The increase in the number of unemployed was particularly high immediately after the introduction of the disease protection measures. The availability of men is now higher than that of women. By the end of February, 3.9 pst. women and 4.6 pst. men registered as unemployed. There has been a slightly greater decrease in the proportion of employed immigrants than in the rest of the population, respectively 1.9 to 0.7 percentage points from the fourth quarter of 2019 to the fourth quarter of 2020. We have to keep track of whether immigrants are hit harder by unemployment as a result of the long-term coronary apathy. Female entrepreneurs can be particularly vulnerable: industries that have been hit hardest are industries with enterprises where women dominate. Male entrepreneurs may also use the instrument to a greater extent than women. Consequences of risks, or perceived risks, and uncertainties resulting from the pandemic can lead to fewer women entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. A number of measures have been put in place to remedy the business situation. It is too early to say anything about the gender impact of the measures. At present, we do not know for sure whether the pandemic and measures have led to more or less equality in the family. But we're going to get more knowledge. We're going to map the gender implications of the pandemic. Persons with disabilities have experienced that practical assistance, day care, relief and other services have been reduced or completely lost. This can contribute to the loss of health and quality of life. In particular, at the beginning of the pandemic, there were differences between municipalities in the interpretation of national measures for the protection of infectious diseases, which unfortunately could affect the rights and the safety of services. Discrimination against visits in private homes was one example, but the rules were later clarified by the Health Directorate, on 20 April 2020, which said that municipalities could not impose a general ban on visits and the like in the homes of people with developmental disabilities. Families and relatives of people with disabilities experienced an increased burden of care. Children and young people with decisions on special education have been particularly affected. After the reopening of the schools, it took a long time for many to regain the special educational offer they had decided on. Digital solutions for education have not worked, or have worked only partially, for many young people with disabilities. This is serious, and this obviously works with the government. The size will be given an overall explanation of the gender impact of the coronary apathy in the Ministry of Culture's budget proposal for 2022, on its status at that time. In my last theme, I want to say something about international work, in seven points. Point 1 is the Coronapandemy and global equality. There is no doubt that equality has gone back internationally. Results obtained and progress in women’s rights and equality are now stopped and, in worst cases, reversed. Women are on the front line as health workers and caregivers at home. Many women work in the informal sector and in sectors most affected by the pandemic. The revenue gap between men and women is increasing. The government is working to include women in decision-making and targeted measures to reach girls and women. We also cooperate with civil society organisations and women's organisations. Local organisations are crucial in particular. There are important prerequisites for providing effective responses where most is needed. Point 2 is girls and education. Education is a key priority of government development policy. Education for girls provides better health for both mothers and children, contributes to gender equality and promotes inclusive economic growth. Internationally, 1.6 billion students have been hit by school closures under the pandemic. Long-term school leaving increases the likelihood of girls in particular not returning to school. Through our partners, Norway contributes to remedying the negative consequences of the ongoing educational crisis. Increased access to inclusive distance learning, alternatives to school food and an enhanced supply of psychosocial support have been among the key actions. This is how we ensure that the most likely girls come back to school. Point 3 is sexual and reproductive health and rights. Equal rights and opportunities for girls and women are a fundamental key to promoting development and growth in a society and to achieving sustainability goals. Therefore, equality is a cross-cutting consideration in all our international development work. In this, the right of girls and women to control their own bodies and their own lives is absolutely central. The government continues to give priority to promoting and defending the reproductive health and rights of girls and women. We have committed ourselves to contributing a total of 10.4 billion. kr to the sexual and reproductive rights of women and girls in the period 2020-2025. Internationally, we know that covid-19 has resulted in multiple unwanted pregnancies, increased maternal and infant mortality and a dramatic increase in gender-based violence. The pandemic now reverses much of the progress in sexual and reproductive health and rights. Therefore, several of our partners, not least the UN Population Fund, are now working hard to ensure that girls and women continue to have access to contraceptives and life-saving health services as well as protection against gender-based violence. Norway has also played an active role in ensuring that all our covid-19 responses have a gender perspective and that women are involved in making important decisions. We have had to use a lot of effort in recent years to defend global, established standards and rights, rather than to further develop them. We have been building a wide network of states and actors, and together we have managed to prevent many setbacks. Now we are pleased that the United States will no longer use its weight to weaken sexual and reproductive health and rights, but will cooperate with us to promote and strengthen this agenda. The Biden administration has already taken important action by abolishing Mexico City Policy and resuming the funding of the UN Population Fund, UNFPA, and the World Health Organisation. Point 4 is harmful habits. Gender mutilation and child marriage are not just gross human rights violations that have major consequences for those involved. It also puts a heavy burden on society. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat sexual mutilation, child marriage and the preference of sons through our strategy against harmful customs internationally, 2019–2023. The government has therefore set aside SEK 760 million. kr for this work. The enormous amount of harmful habits increases during the pandemic. Only in children's marriages does the UN estimate an increase in dramatic 13 million more child marriages in the period 2020-2030 due to covid-19. It's dramatic. Point 5 is the action plan Women, Peace and Security 2019–2022. The government emphasises women's rights and participation in the broad scope of our peace and security engagement, and with our place in the Security Council, we contribute to a targeted and systematic follow-up of the commitments of women, peace and security across the broad spectrum of the Security Council's work. In line with the Women, Peace and Security Action Plan, we are committed to starting earlier to ensure women's rights and participation in peace processes. Women must be included before formal negotiations are started. We are increasingly contributing to the development of gender-sensitive conflict and actor analyses. Point 6 is the Action Plan on Freedom, Power and Opportunities. The action plan Freedom, power and opportunities, which have extended the ageing period, are based on Norway’s long traditions of promoting equality in foreign and development policy. In many countries, there is increased resistance to women’s rights, not least to sexual and reproductive health and rights. Our efforts are more important than ever. We give priority to equality and equal rights. I'll show you, for example. to the government's objective that at least half of all bilateral assistance should have equality as its main or sub-objectives. In the future, we need to use our position as a champion of international equality to avoid that the pandemic has major consequences for the long-term work on women's rights and equality. I look forward to continuing this important international work in the future. Point 7 is the UN Commission on Women's Rights 2021. The UN Commission on Women is the most important international meeting of the year to discuss global equality and women's rights. Usually thousands of representatives of authority and representatives of civil society are gathered in New York in March. This year, the UN Women's Commission was strongly influenced by the coronary apathy. The meetings were mainly digital. The main theme of this year's Commission was women's participation in decision-making and public life, as well as the fight against violence. Despite everything that had been done digitally, after demanding negotiations, agreement was reached between countries on a final document. Finally, this statement shows a good development for equality between women and men. The Coronapandemic has affected us both nationally and internationally, and that is what the government will follow up on. However, the review also shows that it is possible to think, work for and implement gender equality policies — even when it comes to it. The government will continue its efforts so that we remain one of the world's best countries on equality. We're gonna be the best. We already work widely in several fields: We're going to present a notice on the sustainability targets for the Stortinget. There will be a new LHBTIQ action plan. We're going to provide a big message on the development of the disabled. We will present a new universal design action plan. A new action plan on negative social control and honour-related violence is presented in the summer. We will present a strategy for a more equal education and labour market. Equality pays off. The many ongoing and planned works of the government will continue the positive development towards an even more equal society for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-13.ana.ud78e8319	The President will propose that the Minister of Culture and Gender Equality’s statement on the status of promoting equality and diversity in all sectors be dealt with in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
