ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e174	The President will propose that the public gallery of infectious diseases be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives Rasmus Hansson and Torstein Tvedt Solberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e193	The representative of Sveinung Stensland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e198	On behalf of the representatives of Ingunn Foss, Heidi Nordby Lunde and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to combat violence and repeat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e203	The representative, Mr Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e208	On behalf of the undersigned, Gisle Meininger Saudland, Erlend Wiborg, Marius Arion Nilsen, Morten Wold, Bård Hoksrud and Sylvi Listhaug, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to secure sick pay for patients in a condition of health due to covid-19. I ask that it be dealt with according to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 39, second paragraph, c.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e215	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's Office, there is the following letter to Stortinget dated 17 December 2021 concerning changes among State Secretaries: «The City Council was held at Oslo Castle on 17 December 2021 at 2.30 p.m. 1200 under the direction of His Majesty the King. The following decision was adopted: Head of Department Jakob Bjellland is appointed Minister of State Jon-Ivar Nygård, Ministry of Transport, with effect from 3 January 2022. The daily director Christian Anton Smedshaug is hereby constituted with effect from 3 January 2022 as Secretary of State for the Government of Espen Barth Eide in the Ministry of Climate and Environment for the period during which Alexander Øren Heen is liquidating parental leave. Political adviser Sigrid Hagerup Melhuus shall be constituted with effect from 10 January 2022 as State Secretary to the State Council Espen Barth Eide in the Ministry of Climate and Environment for the period during which Ragnhild Sjoner Syrstad shall liquidate parental leave and leave.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e248	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 2–4 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e288	No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 5–6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e318	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines will be given with replies from the main speakers of the lots and six lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e325	I will first commend the Committee for good work, for good discussions, for the seriousness of taking over the situation we have now been in, which is completely precarious, but also for thinking in the long term. I also want to praise the support apparatus around us. I will now move on to describe Red's policy in this area. The Red's objective is free, good and equivalent education and training provision. While parents have to pay more for kindergartens, it is still possible for commercial actors to take out profits on money allocated to kindergartens. The Red’s objective is to strengthen welfare services, not welfare professionals. We will strengthen the community in the kindergarten sector and want the kindergarten to be free of charge, in line with school. We're increasing the transfers to the municipalities by several billion dollars, so they have financial space to meet the recruitment standards in kindergartens and advice to temporary workers from day one. If we're going to have good quality at kindergartens, we have to afford to have pediatric competence and good staffing. We're in two crises at once. We're in an acute manning crisis because of the pandemic we're in, but we're also in a long-term manning crisis in the public sector, growth and school. There you've spent a long, long time with a minimum crew, which means you haven't had the opportunity to meet the pandemic we're in. I'm genuinely concerned about all kindergarten and school staff who are about to plunge into Christmas with batteries and energy levels in minus. A real Christmas greeting to all those who go to work every day in the country's kindergartens and schools will be taking the crisis seriously and giving it monks to increase staffing, both in the short and long term. Therefore, Red grants more funds to kindergarten teachers and trade union workers in kindergarten. Teachers with sufficient time and resources are a prerequisite for ensuring that children’s learning needs are met. Red will therefore give priority to extending the time to contact teachers. We also double the funds allocated to the guidance of newly educated teachers, because it's not enough to recruit more teachers, we also have to make sure they stay in the profession. Red will strengthen the student community and ensure more groups of professionals entering school. Today, there is a wide variation in the manning of the PP service. The Children’s Ombudsman has found that children’s rights to special education are being violated and that one of the main reasons for this is a poor PP service. Red therefore increases the number of posts in the PP service, with the aim of introducing a long-term recruitment standard for the service. Norway needs more skilled workers. We need people who can be ready to enter different professions across the country. The industry programmes, developed in cooperation with the social partners, are a spice team providing free training and further training to workers. The sector programmes are, according to the trade union movement, key instruments for ensuring conversion and a serious working life in vulnerable industries. That is why we are doubling the contribution to the sectoral programmes. We also double the grant to Professionals at work, so that the scheme can be extended. Getting papers on what you can, regular work and a safe work life provide both security and pride. Several colleagues and others in the job can quickly lead to what has been so lyrically referred to as «Solskin inside my bladder», and for my own account I can add the termotresses, the cooking garden, the dresset, etc. Red will work to ensure competence throughout the country, and therefore good educational institutions are needed where people live. Nesna is a good example of that. For almost 100 years, the college had made sure that professionals were educated in Helgelandskysten, before being merged and laid down. We support the demand of the public reaction to repatriate Nesna as an autonomous higher education institution. Equal rights to education give a more democratic society and balance the differences between people. If the training is to be available to all, irrespective of the parents' financial statements, the study aid must be increased. Red increases the student support to 1.3G, and we donate money to several student homes to make sure that more students can get a reasonable place to live. We're also increasing outreach education for high school students. Investing in growth, school, different education and research is investing in the future by investing in the present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e353	Having a good public common school for all children and young people, where all are given equal opportunities, is one of the most important foundations we have in our society. Red has presented a budget of 10 billion. kr i plus for next year, but there's very little about school. Why does Red pay so little in primary school when you have so much money for other types of bets?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e358	Thank you for the question. We might have a larger plus because we haven't settled the tax settlement. We believe that we have invested a lot in the school, through, among other things. increasing recruitment, ensuring that the contact teacher has more time for the individual student, and in the case of guidance, so that trained teachers do not get a practical shock without having someone to talk to, but that they simply have the opportunity to get guidance and discuss the different issues they face, and that we can make sure that people stay in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e365	Having enough teachers and having enough teachers with the right skills is very important for young people's learning. Why, then, does the Red Teacher Specialist Scheme reduce by 252 million? kr in next year's budget, if there is quality in school that is important to Red?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e370	We believe that quality is important for the school, and then we believe that good education is important. That's what we're betting on. In addition, we believe that we should strengthen the student, so that teachers have time to be teachers, both by getting more environmental therapists into school and, not least, by increasing the pot for the PP service.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e375	Kindergarten is a very important venue to give children a good start to life. Here they get to expand, grow and develop together with peers children and competent professionals. But does the representative believe, based on the statements and statements, that it is right to make all kindergartens municipal, or should more of the public bets be used to fund up crews, as educational norms and other measures, which ensure a good childcare provision throughout the country, including in private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e380	Thank you for the question. Red has always been clear that we want diversity, and that we believe that the commercial chains threaten this diversity, but we have also been clear that we are too private, non-commercial kindergartens, that is. kindergartens such as stone gardens, courtyards, etc. And yes, Red wants a strong prioritization of both crew and quality in kindergarten, and the two things are closely linked. What we don't want is for public funds to go into the pockets of what we choose to call welfare professionals, i.e. people who invest in kindergarten first and foremost with it in order to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e387	It is always fascinating to listen to a Red representative who always believes that everything should be so-called free, or tax-funded, as it is also called. I have not experienced any other parties throughout history that have thought that everything should be so free. What's interesting to know is who's going to create the values that Red then uses up, and then finds out that they're going to tax the rich. But it is commercial players that you are opposed to, so who is it concrete to create those values? It should not be public, it must be private, and which private players, or commercial players, want Red to support – and are happy to pay taxes to the public that you consume?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e393	Thank you for the question, and thank you for the compliment. It's not that often I'm called fascinating, but I choose to take it positive. The representative is quite right that we may often have more money than others, and that's because we want higher taxes on those who make a lot of money. But to the question of who creates the values, the answer is the community. It's all those who go to work every day, it's all those who work, in both the private and public sectors, who create the values.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e400	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e405	For the Workers' Party, a good public school and equal right to education are essential for equal opportunities for all people. After eight years with a Right-led government, the country has now finally received a new course. With the Workers' Party in government, we have to bring down the differences. We're going to strengthen the team around the kids, and the employees are going to get better time and more confidence to do their job. If we are to give our children a good school where everyone learns well, nothing is more important than qualified teachers. The government increases the free income of municipalities by a total of 4.5 billion. kr – 2,5 br. kr more than the original proposal of the Solberg Government. It gives room to strengthen the team around the children in schools and kindergartens. We maintain the commitment to developing skills for teachers, and we give more space to the practical and aesthetic subjects. With the Workers' Party and the Centre's party in government, it goes 'Fast'. With this budget, the maximum price in kindergarten is cut for the first time since 2013. Lowering the nursery rate is important to make the offer available to everyone, and it gives families with young children more access to the daily routine. Our goal is to bring the kindergartens into a new era. We need to raise the quality, and we need to lower the price. From the next harvest, it's not just the best thing in life that's free. The budget agreement gives us from the next harvest free core time in the SFO for the first classes. It gives children's families a better economy, and it lowers the threshold for participation. For us, it's important to reduce the price and also increase the quality. This is exactly why we are strengthening the scope for empowerment for employees in the SFO. We know that those who do not complete secondary education tend to end up on the outside of the world of work. It's a loss for society and the individual. Every year, many young people do not have the apprenticeship they need to complete secondary education, and that is precisely why there is a great need for a professional career. I'm glad that the government is following up the goal of learning space for everyone. This budget is set at a total of 370 million. to improve training up to the place of learning and to strengthen training and follow-up on the company. Higher education, post-secondary education and research are central to the government platform. It will focus on the competence of workers throughout their working life and on a well-established and decentralised provision of training in close proximity to the regional and local labour market. There are offensive and concrete approaches to better student welfare, more student housing, more study places and better quality in higher education. We're on our way, and I'm looking forward to the continuation. But the situation is serious in many places in service. In a short time, the coronary situation has once again changed, and we know that the situation requires a lot of many. I should like so much that we were not here again with new intensified measures for the protection of infection. I come back to the compensatory measures in a later article in the debate. The Workers' Party has great ambitions for the field of education. We prioritise more money for the municipalities, so that the team around the children can be strengthened in practice. Together with the parties, we need to launch a comprehensive trust reform, for employees with time and confidence provide better kindergartens and better schools. We're dealing with the teaching shortage, because the most important single factor for children's learning is, of course, the teacher. We're going to make school more practical. We're going to raise the quality of kindergartens, and we're going to lower the price. With the Workers' Party in government, we have to bring down the differences. We strengthen the team around the children, and we give employees more time and more trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e428	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e433	The Government of Solberg implemented a number of measures to increase the competence of teachers and to ensure more qualified teachers, including: through the teacher-specialist scheme. In the budget for 2022, the government of Solberg proposed to step up this effort in order, in particular, to give priority to initial training and early work. The government proposed to pause the escalation in its budget, but the budgetary agreement proposes that it be phased out entirely. In the final report that came recently, teachers are probably responding to the fact that they have benefited from the scheme and that it is an attractive and motivating career path. It is thus surprising that a few days before, the government chose to close the teacher-specialist scheme without waiting for conclusions. Good teachers with solid and up-to-date knowledge are key for students to learn more. What happened to the Workers' Party's attitude to the teachers' specialists from the work on the supplementary proposal for the budget agreement with SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e442	The Workers' Party has always been critical of the teacher-specialist system, and we are not alone about that. It's also made the parties crystal clear. It's a system that's been heavily criticised. The Education Association has stated that the scheme must be legitimised, that there must be an orderly pay and working conditions and that the tasks must be clearly defined. This has been lacking in the teacher-specialist system. Then it's like in the government statement we're crystal clear that we're going to have new career paths for teachers, and we're going to maintain the commitment to skills development. The difference between us and the previous government is that we should anchor this well with the parties, and we should do it properly. We're going to get back to this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e449	The last time the red-greens had power, the studio stood still. It was built approx. 900 student homes a year. With the bourgeois government, where the Progress Party was also involved, student housing was more than doubled, and student support was also increased, while 11 months of study support was introduced. In the election campaign, the Workers' Party was very clear to the country's students that they would build 3,000 new student homes, increase the scholarship rate and introduce 12 months of student support for students with children. None of these promises have been made in the government budget from the government parties. I therefore wonder what the Workers' Party will say to those students who believed in these promises from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e456	I want to say that the ambitions and goals we have in the government platform are still at stake. The additional number the government has provided now, we had three weeks to design. Of course, our ambitions for 3,000 new student homes this year stand firm. We're going to review the study funding to strengthen the full-time and part-time student. Our ambition for 12 months of student support for students with children is still there. I notice that the Progress Party in its alternative budget has a small increase in student support, but at the same time cuts drastically in other areas in the field of education, so it can be said that there will also be students remaining as losers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e463	The working party and Red probably share the desire for increased quality in kindergartens, and I think we also share the understanding that increased quality is about enough staffing and more staffing. I expect that the representative's inbox is as full as my description of a everyday life that is tough, sometimes impossible and also not fair. I've had stories about one employee alone with 17 children between the ages of one and three. It's not good quality in kindergarten. It is also not fair. So my question is, what guarantees can the Workers' Party provide in the Chamber that we actually get a powerful increase in staffing within the kindergarten sector, and not least one everyday life that makes people able to stand in the job that's in kindergarten today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e468	I fully agree with the representative that the most important thing for the quality of the nursery is of course the employees, having enough staff who have time for the individual child and who have the right skills to see and to follow up. The government has clear points in the government platform about competence but also about staffing. When it comes to manning, we want to review the standard of manning. These include: about temporary employment, it's about the tasks that take the employees away from the kids, and it's about how we now meet the recruitment standard, and whether it works in practice. In addition, we know that the competence of employees is crucial. We want to demand 50 pst. kindergarten teachers. In addition, we want to step up the proportion of skilled workers and have a concrete target of up to 25 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e473	Competence is a key word when we talk about school policy. In the last eight years, when we had a civil majority, there are almost 50,000 teachers who have received further education — a solid lift for Norwegian school. The Hurdals Platform government has now said that for teachers who have been trained until 2014, we should not set the same standards of competence. I really have two questions that I hope the representative can answer. Firstly, does the representative believe that municipalities are equally willing to give teachers priority to raising their skills when there is no longer a requirement, but something that is optional? Secondly, for the autumn, my son begins at school. What kind of demands we make to the teacher he gets depends on when the teacher took his education. If the teacher took his education before 2014, we don't demand a given number of credits, but if you have taken the education after 2014, we will. How does the representative justify making different demands on teachers to do the same job?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e479	I don't think teachers have to be forced on the school bench. I think the teachers are busy learning and getting new skills. We're maintaining the skills development for teachers and set up of $1.7 billion. to it in the budget for the following year. Then it's absolutely right that we remove the pointless separation of teachers. The fact that the former government chose to do so is completely scandalous, given that the back door was left open for unskilled and unqualified teachers who were not qualified to stand in the classrooms. Then we believe that with the precarious lack of teachers in this country, it is more important to ensure that we hold on to those who actually have learning skills, while we continue to keep the pressure on the development of skills for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e486	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e491	I want to start with a big thank you to everyone who works with and for kids and young people in kindergarten, school and higher education. The Coronapandemic has made working and educational life very demanding for many. Our hope is that 2022 will be a more normal year. At the same time, we need to be prepared for new contagion waves, and we need to ensure that children and young people who are struggling or have had knowledge gaps as a result of the severe infection protection restrictions receive the necessary help and support. In the Solberg Government's draft budget for 2022, we arranged for that. This fall we have had many discussions about inequality and how we can preserve well-being in the longer term. The answer is education. Young people who drop out of high school often get a short way to unemployment, and many end up unemployed. Many companies experience that they do not have the right skills for the labour force. We will need many more skilled workers in the years to come. We need more people who like "oil between claws and toes, raise them up", like songs, but preferably "use bad ones, axes and cases". Therefore, it was an important goal for the government of Solberg that more young people should complete with a diploma or study qualification. We took action throughout the education system, and the results came. Absence in higher education has fallen, and 5 300 more students complete secondary school with diplomas or diplomas compared to 2013. In 2013, one in four dropped out of high school. Now four out of five complete, and more young people now choose professional subjects. Many of the students who have had the weakest starting point have also made the most promises, and young people with immigrant background are making an impressive journey in the education system. Our goal is for the children who enter the school gate for the first time to have the same possibilities. Children's parents, where they are born, where they live and what education they have, shall not determine the future of their children. Therefore, we focus on knowledge and quality at all levels, in kindergarten, school and higher education. We know that teachers mean most to children's learning. That is why we have arranged for several qualified teachers in classrooms, carried out a historic continuing education promise, and we are opening up new career paths for teachers. In the budget for 2022, the Right priority has been to ensure a good follow-up of children and young people who are struggling or have gained knowledge gaps due to closed kindergartens, schools or places of study, and we are expanding the system of teacher specialists with special emphasis on initial training. We start work on reforming high school through own resources for schools that facilitate different forms of education that motivate more people to choose a professional, through an extra hour of natural science, and not least measures that can help even more people to complete high school — not only those who are in school today, but also those who lack something to obtain a letter or study qualification. We have received a new school policy course with a new government. The big money is now being prioritised to freeze an old school structure — while cutting off funds for children and young people hit by the pandemic and closed schools, the proposal for an extra hour in the natural sciences is being sacrificed, and the teacher-specialist system is being scrapped. It has produced strong reactions from, among others. municipalities and the Education Association that the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV choose to wind up the teacher’s specialist scheme – and the decision came only days before the final evaluation of the scheme was presented. The evaluation shows that the scheme contributes to the experience of skilled teachers of good professional development, and more people want to continue to teach at school. In addition, it helps to strengthen the professional community of teachers and to develop schools as learning organisations. Of course, a good system can be even better, but the government is bombarded when it actually separates almost 2,000 teachers specialists. At the same time, the teacher-specialist system is a good example of measures that effectively increase the confidence and responsibility of teachers for school development. The government's trust reform is so hard to perceive as anything but a hollow slogan – and it seems to remain so in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e508	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e513	It was not long before the Right had left the government offices until they promoted a proposal for a reform of high school. It went exactly six days. For educational news.no, the representative Sanner himself has stated that he has long seen the need to get hold of high school. Then I wonder why, after eight years in the government, this has not been taken into account before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e518	We have. But not all of the school's challenges are solved through one major reform. Developments in schools need to be implemented through many measures. That's why we've been working early in school. It's also important for high school. Early work is not just to be done in kindergarten and in primary school. It is a form of work that must be used throughout the school. We have renewed all the curricula for the entire school cycle through the subject of trade renewal. It facilitates high school. We have also invested in the competence of teachers. All three elements will have a major impact on secondary education. At the same time, we see that there are still some specific challenges. It is linked to the fact that too many people have too weak professional skills to actually be able to complete high school, falling motivation and increased absence. These are issues we need to address, and we already announced this in the election campaign in the spring of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e523	Early effort I think we all agree on, but it may be a bit hollow to hide behind it when you did not choose to send extra money when you were in government. In government, the Right made learning more difficult. Those with the grade 6 in Norwegian could experience not being a Norwegian teacher because the math character did not stretch. The right-hand separated qualified teachers and left the back door on fire for the unqualified. An early effort obligation was introduced, but it did not come with money. And the government jumped over the parties when the teacher-specialist system was introduced. Several private schools were established, and the survey that the students responded to in the fall shows that there are more people who are dismayed at the school. Multiple chains, and more terrors. How should this contribute to more education in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e532	The results speak for themselves. There are several people who are now completing high school. It may be the most important action we can take to ensure that all young people are given the opportunity to live a life of their own and to get the important ticket into the world of work. There are 5,300 more young people who are now completing, and we see that the policy is producing results. Absence in high school fell. Several students get good grades, and the ones with the weakest starting point have lifted themselves most. The policy works – not least the great effort on the teachers. Yes, we introduced four requirements in practical math to get into the teacher's study. This helped to ensure that more people had the opportunity to conduct the teacher’s study. It shows NIFU research, the Nordic Institute for Innovation, Research and Education. We've been working on a historic lift of skills for the teachers. It's now coming out of the new government. It is now a new course – away from knowledge, quality and learning joys. Our policies gave good results – several completed high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e539	Right-wing roses paint their imitation in education policy and hardly mention the growing pressure and stress situation that has worried many, but I'm glad it comes out in the line-up here. It's the recruitment of qualified teachers I'm concerned about, where the representative Sanner believes that the government today is coming out of the system. We've had an alert teacher crisis for a long time. There have been too few applicants for the programmes, too few who carry out the training, and too few of those who carry out the training are in the teacher's job after completion of the education. The outlook for teaching shortages now, with the wear and tear of teachers throughout the country having been over time during the pandemic, is also uncertain. There's all the good guys in the fire, but the right guys with the wood. Does Sanner recognise the challenge of recruiting enough qualified teachers across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e546	Yes, it's a challenge, but we just picked it up by raising teacher education. It is not that the lower the requirements, the more teachers they become — rather the opposite. We have seen that with increased demands, higher status, master's education and a historical training promise, there are several people who want to be teachers. In our time, there were several qualified teachers in classrooms. It was an important goal for our government. Together with the Christian People's Party, we implemented a teaching norm that means that there are now fewer students per teacher than ever. So more teachers, fewer students per teacher and higher skills also produce good results. Of course, I fully agree that these are still challenges. It's teachers who lack a little bit to get their teacher's skills. That's why we invested in our own further education at the universities of North Norway. It can help to combine more of those who are in school and who are a little lacking in education with additional education, which will also make them qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e553	It was quite funny when the representative Sanner, formerly a minister of knowledge, just after the new Stortinget was set, made proposals for a reform of high school. We've known for a number of years that a lot of students lose motivation in high school. Motivation drops over the years. Why? One of the main reasons is that students do not experience the training as relevant. The representative Sanner and the right-wing government's recipe have been all the more testing, pugging, emphasising certain theoretical subjects and skills, i.e. a less varied and less practical school. The results of secondary school take into account: Is this proposal for a reform of secondary school by the representative Sanner a recognition that the Røres test- and dorm recipe has not worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e559	I would like to know where the representative has it from that our government carried out more testing and pugging in school. Where did it come from? Yes, we believe that national tests are important. We believe it is important that the students who are struggling with reading and writing difficulties are discovered early. One of the most important things about me as a minister of knowledge was to meet high school students who said that there was no one who discovered that they had difficulty reading and writing. That's why we need national tests and tests at school. Yeah, we've renewed the school through the trade union renewal. Those curricula were established in my time as Minister of Knowledge. They facilitate more varied forms of teaching and more practical learning. It's hoping and thinking I'll make a positive contribution to further development of high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e566	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e571	We have had a big choice and received a new government with a new course for Norway, including a new course for growth, education and the view of knowledge. Instead of focusing on counting edges and overrides, new government wants to ensure proximity and trust. The Hurdal platform clearly points out many major projects that new government will take on board. Municipalities and counties manage kindergartens and schools throughout Norway. They ensure good offers for children and young people with very different assumptions around our country. Over time, we have had low birth rates, an ageing population and relocation combined with centralization in several places in the country. This gives great results for kindergartens and schools. At the top we've got a pandemic that won't let go of the roof. Kindergartens are now going to experience a requested lift, when we see how important they are to give children a good start to life. The framework plan, which reinforced the contents of kindergartens, was followed up by the standard of personnel and education. At the same time, the funding of kindergartens is dependent on, in particular, private victims. Resources for increased staffing in living conditions areas are important. The centre party is committed to creating a funding system that better caters for small private and non-profit kindergartens than today. This is essential for the provision of childcare services and the diversity of kindergartens. Then we also have to get out of the trenches and take up the policy in a constructive way. Furthermore, we believe that primary schools in Norway have been neglected by the previous government. Requirements have been added to the municipalities without any national idea of what it leads to locally. In contrast, the Workers' Party-Center Party government believes that basic funding for primary schools and prioritisation of qualified teachers across the country will help to ensure better opportunities for students throughout the country. Furthermore, the Government Platform is showing a new course for the knowledge vision at school, where new curricula are to be followed up by up-to-date assessment and quality assurance. The students and teachers will no longer know a self of test and performance pressure, but experience that there is room for growth, development and learning at different paces. This is why new progress tests are stopped, in order to get a new school assessment process on the right track. The work on trust reform is also consistent with the government. Reforms are not being pushed downwards on the teaching profession and no longer a teacher-specialist scheme, which has been the Right Performance Project. No, now it is party anchoring and local needs to lead the way. Growth, education and knowledge policy shall be further developed in close dialogue with those who wear their shoes and know where they print. Priority should also be given to continuing training for teachers than under the previous government. The Centre Party believes that several subjects contribute to students' motivation and mastery, which must be in place for further professional and social learning. Therefore, practical and aesthetic subjects are also a priority in the funds for 2022. Therefore, the admission requirements for teacher training have also changed from the beginning of spring. Centralisation and override have also been the melodies of advanced education, almost as being on the wrong side of taking Mjøsa and the length of ‘haemat’. The absence of the Right required a medical statement and was the wrong use of resources to get more attendance at the school. The absentees were not given enough priority either, but fortunately the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV have found together and increased the disembarkation grant for 2022. Now the Hurdals platform points to a new spring for the professional subjects, where several will complete with a professional letter, and more will be given the opportunity for higher vocational education. An important step in the 2022 budget is a total investment of 370 million. for the dissemination of vocational traineeships. Several counties practise apprenticeship guarantees, and the government sees that there are no apprentices for the apprenticeships, and there are no apprenticeships for the apprentices. The centre party has long been pressuring for a bet in colleges. They have an unsolved potential for speeding up Norwegian value creation and education. Vocational schools provide a good supply of continuing education, are practical and provide training both for students and for the labour market. The Hurdal platform alerts bets. Furthermore, higher education is essential for the development of new knowledge. The structure of colleges and universities has never looked like it was before. Proximity and access to higher education are important. The health sector is screaming for more professionals. Although during the previous period, the Stortinget made a commitment to health care in the previous government, it had to change the government to get 15 more medicine places in North Norway and 500 new nursing students across the country. These are among several important issues that show that the whole country is now experiencing growth and development, with services close to people and education that make more rusty for work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e601	"Wanted three years at school And at the Christmas Eve There you played Joseph But got to bear the shut up" The right in government has taken action to prevent such school experiences. We have prioritised quality in school provision for students over eight years. It's given results. More than ever, they complete and pass high school, and several complete teacher education. The industry has a hard time recruiting skilled labour. In the districts, the challenge now is that apprenticeships are empty. The companies are unable to grow because they do not have skilled workers, and the municipalities are struggling to recruit nurses and health professionals. The priority of the centre party is to spend 1.25 billion. in cross-border schools rather than quality and variation in the supply in the districts. How can the Central Party defend the priority of buildings over the quality and content of the student offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e612	I think that both buildings, qualified teachers and motivated students are crucial for having a good school around the country. The centre party is extremely pleased that we finally have a basic funding for primary schools, to which the representative is looking for. It is precisely helping to ensure that the basic plan is in place in order to have good conditions for growth and training. Too many places we have experienced centralisation and pressure on school structures rather than focus on quality and learning. The central party believes that the secondary school was almost given priority under the Right, and it was laid down in many places because of the Right Policy. On the contrary, we want to facilitate the maintenance of the secondary school and the proximity to training, which is also a good thing for students around the country – to save travel, save resources and spend time on what is important, namely a good school day that provides learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e621	In its profiling and communication, the Centre is very concerned about both Norwegian food, Norwegian workplaces and being close to people and to Norway as a whole. Norwegian study places, on the other hand, the Centre Party seems to be less concerned. The Progress Party is the only party that will allow universities and universities to introduce tuition fees for foreign students. Norway is currently using around 3.3 billion. SEK to pay for the studies to foreign students, including students from countries where Norwegian students themselves have to pay the tuition fee. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Central Party if she agrees that we should start to charge a tuition fee from foreign students, especially from the countries where Norwegian students themselves have to pay a tuition fee to study.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e628	There is no doubt that the Centre Party and the Advance Party have a slightly different view of diversity and internationalisation in higher education. The Central Party acknowledges that both travelling on exchange and getting international environments to Norway is important, for example: if we look at business: when we are about to grow in the battery industry, we probably need expertise and cooperation across countries to achieve the growth we want. I believe that the Progress Party may also be interested in this. As far as funding itself is concerned, there is a lively debate. I think that when we talk about student welfare and bet on students, the Progress Party should not be too high and too dark. They used the conversion scheme and cut there to fund student investments in the last period when they were in power. That's what the Center Party believes was a hopeless way of adding for the students, when the students themselves had to pay with more loans, less scholarships and less flexibility in their studies. That's the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e635	The college I attended no longer exists. It's a bachelor's program at NTNU. It's also a form of centralization. The struggle for Nesna has lasted a long time, and I want to quote Vedum, as I have done earlier in this room. He said: ‘Seventh and last, higher education is a public responsibility. Nord universitet shall not be responsible for restoring higher education at Nesna.’» And then that's exactly what happened -- just with the promise that this time it was going to be different. Can people trust it? The Central Party will ensure that Nesna becomes an independent educational institution, and how do they intend to ensure it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e645	The Hurdal Platform clearly formulates a fully-fledged higher education institution. That's exactly what the government is now working to deliver, and I'm very proud that we're already getting a call for study places by spring, that we can already guarantee the employees that buildings, facilities and equipment that have been used at Nesna will be of use as early as the fall of, when there are more students and admissions of new students. It's a giant for the new government that we can deliver on it. It's clear that Nord University is also the first to admit that they have to deliver on trust and reputation in the activity of Nesna, and I have seen that they are very keen to cooperate with anyone who wants to Nesna well. It's a shared responsibility for all of us who burn for Nesna and higher education there, that this succeeds, and that we get students to the harvest when it starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e654	When the representative Knutsdatter Strand was in opposition, she was one of the many who called for a crisis package for the schools during the handling of the worst coronary apathy. Now, in December 2021, it looks like this school year is going to be at least as demanding as the previous school year. Nevertheless, the parties Arbeiderpartiet, the Zenterpartiet and SV have not found money for their own emergency package for school or kindergarten. On the contrary, they have cut off the scheme that our government put forward. What is it that now there is no need for own money for schools, the education sector and kindergartens, when they are in a at least as difficult a situation as last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e662	It is nice to have a former knowledge minister who shares the commitment to both action and meeting the needs of the school and kindergarten. Right now, of course, the pandemic is one of the most serious things for schools and kindergartens around the country. The government is now rolling out a package of 216 million. kr for lost professional and social learning, and we are absolutely sure that it will come to its right, be in demand and make use of where there has been a strong impact on kindergarten and school because of the pandemic. So I'm dividing the representative's commitment that we have to keep the pressure up, so that we get followed up where the need is. Therefore, there are also separate action packages for municipalities for additional expenditure that have come from the pandemic in general in the municipal sector, and then there is a specific scheme for school and growth. We must meet the needs on an ongoing basis, so that no one becomes too seriously harmed by the closures and challenges of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e671	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e676	It is a major sector for which we are responsible and for which this is a field. It includes over 1.6 million people when we look at those who work in kindergartens, schools, universities and colleges — or study there — as well as the 300,000 children who go to kindergarten. I will therefore also start – like others before me here today – by thanking all those who work in and are in charge of the sector, and who have made it possible for the wheels to go around both kindergartens, schools and higher education, despite the difficult time we have been in, and not least all the students and students who have been adaptable and involved in the swings when things have changed rapidly. Despite the challenges we have experienced in the sector under the pandemic, we still have all the challenges that were already there and that we must also work on and address. That is, of course, what we want to do, all of us, first and foremost, in relation to the budget that is now under discussion. I'll start by talking about higher education. The NHO competence survey has shown for many years that there is a need for more market and value-oriented education. We need to dimension higher education more in line with what business and businesses out there need. We need to train people to work and the skills they need in Norway. We haven't always been as good at that. Training for work is therefore a horizontal theme in the budget of the Progress Party, where we clearly show priorities and a direction of what should be put forward, in line with what is being asked for out there. Among other things, we focus heavily on increased study provision in medicine and nursing, which we know is very much needed, and some other areas that show the same. We also believe that universities and colleges, and specialised schools in particular, need to provide Norwegian youth with a starting point for getting a job after the studies. As I mentioned in the reply box, there are many out there who are disappointed by the government's lack of delivery of election promises about increased student support and better framework conditions for the students. The Progress Party presents in its budget a study package in which we propose an increase, but also some changed principles. We suggest that the study aid should be linked to G, that is, the basic amount of the population's population, so that there is a certain automatic adjustment every year. In addition, we believe that the level should be increased from around the present day. 1.2G to 1.5G. We want a four-year escalation that will give us a significantly higher level of study support in the next few years – up to four years – than we have today, and that this will automatically be adjusted in the future by linking the study support to the basic amount of population protection. We also propose several student housing, and then we suggest that parts of the grant scheme can be used to rehabilitate old furniture instead of just building new ones. For example: TV 2 has largely focused on: there are many student homes out there that need refurbishment. Higher education is at one end of the scale of the topic for which we are responsible. At the other end, we find the nursery sector. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people out there running kindergartens today who are worried about whether they can do it in the years to come, and what the future holds for their business, their kindergartens, their employees and the children they are responsible for. Childcare is perhaps the most successful welfare reform in Norway in the last 20 years. By coming together public and private in cooperation, we were able to expand our kindergarten capacity and provide full childcare services in a short time. And when we look at the studies, we see that very often parents are also more satisfied with private kindergartens than with public schools, and sick leave is also very many places lower there than with the public. I think that the nursery arrangement, the collaboration between private and public, has made both the municipal and private kindergartens better. But now we're on a dangerous path. We are on a path where we are about to destroy this well-functioning kindergarten reform and this kindergarten agreement. The cuts that seem to be adopted here today are going to have dramatic consequences. We also see that the Minister of Knowledge has thought that cutting opportunities are even greater, by cutting them more next year. About 60 pst. private kindergartens in Norway are run by individual kindergarten drivers. They are not part of groups where they have profits from other kindergartens to take off or where they can obtain equity from the owners. They run small margins, and very many of them now fear that they can continue to run the kindergartens of the years to come. We in the Progress Party still hope to be sensible and to refrain from the dangerous cuts in the kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e701	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e706	I do not think the representative is «on the stomach of a rock», but in terms of higher education and research, we really agree that it is very important for the conversion of Norway. The Advance Party's alternative budget cuts in higher education and research. Transfers to educational institutions will be reduced by 800 million. SEK, to the Research Council with 100 million. SEK, to regional research funds of 20 million. kr. At the same time, you point out that this is important in the conversion of Norway. How does the representative intend to achieve the objective of conversion with such extensive cuts in higher education and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e713	I thank you for the question. As I used parts of my contribution to talk about, there is a comprehensive theme in the Progress Party budget in the field that we need to convert the higher education sector into more labour-oriented educational initiatives and bets on programmes that are in line with the industry and Norwegian enterprises need skills. Although we have put in a general cut, we also put in bets on the things we think are more in line with a more labour-oriented education, among other things. for health and care studies, nutrient research and a number of other things. We are concerned about – and we believe that our budget is also spending – that students in Norway should get better and simpler. That's why there's also a big investment in our student budget package, where students will get more in student support, where there will be more student housing, and where you also add up to a fixed adjustment of the student support by attaching it to the basic amount of the population's money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e720	I've looked at their priorities, and there's no doubt that you're also moving on some money and showing direction for what you want. Nevertheless, there is a cut of almost half a billion to this sector, and it shows us that this is not their main field of activity, even though labour relations are being lifted. We are all concerned about working life, but the money is not there to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e725	We believe that we are absolutely strengthening the higher education sector. In addition to the efforts I mentioned, which is a conversion from many fields of study we believe are not fully work-relevant, to more work-related study directions, it is also the student package I mentioned. We also dare to take up some debates I feel other parties in the hall pushing away, as I also mentioned in a previous line round, among others. So this is saying that we're using 3.3 billion. to subsidise foreign students. We have within our budget that we should end this by giving universities and colleges the opportunity to introduce tuition fees for foreign students, especially from those countries where Norwegian students themselves have to pay tuition fees. So yes, in some posts it's cut because we're betting on other posts, and we show a clear priority we think is needed to get a more work-focused higher education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e734	The President reminds the replicants that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the co-representative of the other interlocutors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e739	It is interesting to read the alternative budget of the Advance Party, where large, flat cut is more the rule than the exception, for example. When you choose to cut 50 million. DKK in grants to higher education institutions. A few weeks ago, I was visiting Red Public School. There I met many students, among others. Professor Henrik, who told him how important this year was to him. He told me that he had taken a breath in the ground, thought and reflected, both over life and what studies he would take, and not least learned much from meeting many other people he would not otherwise meet. Henrik is one of 15,000 students who attend high school this year. If the subsidies are cut as much as the Advance Party wants, the excess will have to be increased considerably, and significantly fewer people will be able to participate in the offer of higher education. My question to the representative is therefore: Does the Progress Party believe that most people will no longer be able to attend high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e748	We believe that high school provision is a good offer that we also want to maintain. But as I've also been involved in previous replies, we're trying to show a clear priority of what we want in the education sector, and that's a change of pace. That's why we have a few cuts that we're using instead on investments in those parts of the education sector where we see that the NHO and the business community are asking for more skills, including in the health sector. So we dare to show some priorities by having to have a few cuts to bet on the things that are in line with both business and to the extent that public sector demand for skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e754	The Progress Party has long been concerned with cutting public expenditure, or wasting taxpayers' money, as they call it. We also see this in the consideration of this budget, because it was cut hard in education – yes, in the hundreds of millions of people. I have always wondered why the Progress Party then thinks it is quite right, yes, they even credit for the fact that the taxpayers' money that has been given to, for example. kindergartens, taken out for private enrichment for the owners. They're so concerned that every single penny is to be turned into public money, that all unnecessary use of money is to be cut, but when taxpayers' money in the billions goes to completely different things from what it's meant to be, through profit on well-being, yeah, that's okay. Can the representative Gulati explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e763	I would like to answer the question, but I would like to start by objecting to the premise that is based on. On the contrary, the Progress Party is spending several hundred million dollars on important parts of the education sector, including higher education – almost 200 million. DKK 250 million for health education and training. DKr for increased support for studies and much for research, among others. in business related research. There is investment in higher education, where we also dare to show a direction by taking some general cut and earmarking them for concrete bets, in line with what we think is right for the country. Then I am very happy that the representative addresses it with kindergartens. Yes, some of those who run private kindergartens take out profits. But I would recommend the representative to visit private kindergartens around the country. Then he will see that more than half of the kindergartens are run by single drivers, fires. Lots of them run in zero or with deficits and struggle to make the budgets go up, and run for completely different reasons than profit. So the reality the representative refers to, I don't share.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e770	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e775	Selectors required a change in year selection. People have had enough after eight years of increasing differences in power and wealth and lack of action in the face of the climate crisis. We in SV have used our key role at Stortinget to finally change direction – from increasing differences to fair distribution, from climate failure to increased emissions. SV's alternative budget points out our direction, among others. for education. I want to mention our two most important projects. The first is to create a school where all students get equal opportunities to succeed, instead of continuing social differences. Today, there is a statistical correlation between the number of shelf meters in the parents’ homes on the one hand and the results of the students on the other. In addition, a new statistical central agency report shows that low-income pupils have a lower chance of completing secondary education. It's an eight-year feature of the right-hand side's education policy. This is why we need to get away from the right-hand school, which has been characterized by top-level governance, testing and monitoring – a measuring and reporting field that gives less time and confidence to the teacher and teaching and more of the testing and doggy school to get the results in the next national test to look good. This competition and performance school is not a learning promoter, no, it is a sloppy one. Rather, we have to give teachers time, trust and more colleagues so that they can practice their profession and meet each student and follow the student up. That's what a trust reform in school is all about. It's also what increasing teacher density is all about. That's why EN cuts into national samples in our budget, and at the same time we put money into recruiting more teachers. In particular, we give priority to the professional sectors. We propose money to 354 new teachers in vocational training. Especially there we have to increase the implementation. Closer follow-up in smaller student groups is then important. Then I have to add that we see the consequences of the lack of recruiting teachers with the crew crisis that is taking place in both schools and kindergartens now. But SV starts with increasing teacher density in upper secondary education first, also because we want to prioritize practical knowledge. Society has become too academic. Students with good grades in high school are still told to choose a preparatory course. It is very bad that we need 100,000 more skilled workers in 2030. That is why in our budget we have a number of measures for a more practical and varied school, from primary school to higher vocational education. In particular, I would like to highlight the need to make high school more professional. The second main project that SV points to in its budget, which I will now mention, is to make research and higher education an engine for the green shift. We must both increase the framework and distort the resources from fossil energy to research and study places for the green shift. It's vital to succeed in the great transformation we're about to undergo. In the budgetary unity with the government, we have already achieved an important turning point after eight blue years. I'll mention two. The first is the largest welfare expansion since full childcare coverage, which is free SFO for all children, in the first row of the first step. No children should go home alone because of their parents' finances while the other kids continue to play and learn. There is a balance of differences in practice. It is also filling the slogan ‘early effort’ with content, because the inclusion and community created in the SFO contribute to the development of the whole child. When the SFO gets free, we can really start to increase the quality of the content as well, because all the kids have the opportunity to be there. The second is a turning point in the settlement of profit in our welfare. After years of free-falling for large commercial groups to derive profit from tax-funded well-being, we start our clean-up job. Now investigations and regulatory changes are to be made to prevent the commercial alignment of ever-increasing groups and less diversity and to ensure that each and every crown allocated to kindergartens goes to the children’s offerings rather than to private enrichment. But this is just one budget. The free SFO shall apply from 1 to 4 steps. We're going to fight further for the student economy, so that everyone gets equal rights to higher education. We're going to develop a more practical school and have more for green research. Yeah, we've just started so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e808	For the Right, it is absolutely essential that everyone deserves equal opportunities, regardless of background, residence and who their parents are. That's also why we target schemes. The state is going to be a lot for those who need it the most, and then it has to be a little bit smaller for the rest of us. For the many and not for the few, says SV. It sounds nice, but the SV policy in practice works the opposite, and it seems to me that the representative puts ‘cotton in the ear’ and ‘will hear such trouble’ when we in the Right say it. However, when the SV in the budget negotiations prioritises lower child care prices for all, it means that those who need it the most will get the least. How can SV defend its lack of priorities, which leads to a family with million incomes getting the same amount as a low-income family? Isn't it continuing social differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e815	I thank you for the question, which really shows quite clearly the difference between how SV and the left-hand side versus the right-hand side look at the welfare and education system in Norway. For many years now in Norway we have had a tradition of universal welfare schemes, where all children can go to our free common school, where all children get the rights regardless of the income of their parents. It has served us well. One of the best things about Norwegian society is the universal arrangements. What the representative from the Right is talking about, i.e. need testing, is the opposite of universal welfare systems. It's stigmatization. It's that you have to put the lua in your hand and pray. We know that it doesn't work very well, for example. when looking at the reduced parental benefit scheme in kindergartens implemented by the previous government during the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e820	The representative from SV and I just had a nice exchange of views about kindergartens, so I thought we could continue with that theme. The Progress Party and SV stood together 20 years ago on the kindergarten agreement, which I believe has been the most successful welfare reform in Norway for many years. It has given full child care coverage, happy parents and children, and it has been good for society. I fear that in many ways SV is involved and turning the nail in the coffin on the reform with the cuts that are now due to be adopted. We also see that in Oslo, the City Council, which is part of SV, has spent 600 million. NOK to buy up ten private kindergartens so that they can be municipal. I really wonder if that is what SV wants for the rest of the country, and whether the representative would recommend several municipalities to spend money on buying up private kindergartens to make them municipal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e825	I am also very proud of the pediatric reconciliation – a massive welfare reform that ensures that all children get involved. What's interesting, is who's really the big defender of the nursery arrangement, because there's one thing we've seen since the settlement was introduced and SV got in place full child care coverage in government, is that the small, parental, ideal kindergartens are being disputed for the benefit of large commercial groups. Yes, so bad is the development now that if it continues, half of all the private kindergartens will be owned by five large groups by 2029. That's the opposite of diversity. That's the opposite of a custom offer for each, and that's the opposite of the sector we want, with a variety of ideal kindergartens as well as the municipal ones. That's why we say no to commercialization and profit and yes to municipal and private ideal kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e830	All three parties that now form a majority of a budget have given rather beautiful promises to the students. In its programme, SV has promised students a 2G study support, i.e. an increase of SEK 77 000 from today’s level. In its alternative state budget, SV added about 12 000 kroner in increase, while in what became the budgetary union with the government, students get zero in increase. My question to the representative is whether we are now at risk of a reprisal between 2005 and 2013. Then we had a red-green majority in which all three parties really agreed that we would introduce eleven months of study support, but where one did not get it within eight years. Is it like that that the students get fed off with crumbs again when we have a red-green majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e835	I have to admit that I probably went in fifth grade in 2005, so just what kind of priorities were made then, I'm not very well acquainted with. But despite that, I know very well what SV is prioritizing today, and you can see that, among other things. in our proposal for an alternative state budget, to which Mr Melby's representative refers. That's 355 million. NOK just to increase the study aid to NOK 140000 per year, about that. These are our priorities. That's the budget we're voting for first, here in this room. Then we're going to use two-three more budget negotiations, in meeting with the Labour Party and the Center Party, to get through several of our priorities. I would like to take the opportunity to say that the great resistance that, in particular, the State Council, Ola Borten Moe, has shown to increase the support for the study, I do not understand, and we will spend the time to change it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e841	In response to Kari-Anne Jønnes, the representative said that the scheme of free core time and lower parental pay has not worked. I could imagine asking the representative to clarify what is in it. If we look at free kernel time, the share that has been given free kernel time has increased from 5 pst. to 15 pst. That means 15 pst. has received free core time. A total of 45,000 families have enjoyed lower parental pay and free core time. For those families it has worked very well. What now lies in the SV’s impact is that those with normal and higher income will also receive lower parental payments. When we know that the share that has been given free kernel time has increased from 5 pst. to 15 p.m., and that 45,000 families have enjoyed the arrangements, what in this is what has not worked?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e846	When we know how many children are not allowed to participate in this important offer, it should be quite obvious why need testing – the type of scheme where low incomes need to be documented, where public access and prayer need to be provided – does not work very well, compared to how many actually receive this offer. There's a pretty big gap between needs and who uses the old government system. I want to repeat what I said in a previous answer. This is a very good example of a difference in the way we view welfare, because we choose to use the tradition we've had in the past, to strengthen the universal arrangements. I would also like to remind you that the need-tested arrangements introduced by the previous government are continuing with this budget, in addition to the escalation we are embarking on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e853	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e858	In education policy, we often talk about the dual assignment of the school: that the school should train, but that it should also form. These two things are very close together and are also dependent on each other. To put it another way, the school is a place where you have to learn the skills and skills you need in education and working life, but it's also a place where you have to develop yourself as a human being. Initial training is an important part of a process of creation that aims at individual freedom, independence, accountability and humanity. Therefore, the focus on education has been one of the main priorities of the Left; access to good education throughout life is the key to giving as much freedom as possible in their lives. At the same time, children and young people live here and now. Both kindergarten and school must recognize the self - worth of childhood and youth. The key to success in kindergarten and school is skilled and motivated employees who have time, space for action and confidence to do their job. Although not everything is perfect in neither school nor kindergarten, I am very proud of what we in the Left have done in the field of growth and education in recent years, and what we deliver in our state budget for 2022. Whether it's master's degree training for teachers, teacher's specialist scheme, continuing training for 50,000 teachers, guidance system for new teachers, competence development in kindergarten, framework plan for both kindergarten and SFO, teacher's standard, pedagogical norms or staffing standards in kindergarten, I think we've really done the job of investing in quality and competence in kindergarten and school. What we've got left for this investment is less non-response, better grades in high school and higher implementation rates for the students. In the draft budget for 2022, we continue to deliver on the measures that have contributed to this. The last part of the government period of the previous government was heavily influenced by the pandemic. Thanks to a fantastic effort by everyone working in kindergarten and school, we managed to maintain a relatively normal everyday life for children and young people. We prioritised that children should be as much as possible in kindergarten and at school; it was especially important for the most vulnerable children. I am also pleased that our government, to ensure that the pandemic should not go unnecessarily beyond progress and education, established grants to re-establish lost learning and progress for vulnerable students in 2020. Measures such as homework, intensive training and strengthening of teachers' powers and the students' team are part of this scheme, which we continued with 240 million. In our draft budget for 2022. This regime has chosen to cut the government parties – without really giving any reason for it. I think that with the situation we now see in School-Norway and in Barnehage-Norway, we should rather discuss how the system can be strengthened, rather than weakening it. The students have also had a very challenging time during the pandemic. I think there are many people who have missed both professional and social association with fellow students, both through lectures and everything else on campus. In the middle of the pandemic, we brought a strong boost and a strong commitment to education to ensure that it was just education that should be the way out of the crisis. The education promise of 2020 contributed to several places of study, both in specialised schools, universities and higher education institutions – a contribution we continue to receive in the budget for 2022. I also believe that the record-breaking expansion of student housing, the introduction of eleven-month student support – which we managed to prioritise when we were in power – will have a good impact on Norwegian students for a long time to come. I am particularly pleased that we started a completion reform for high school in the previous period. With this reform, we're taking care of everyone who wants to go to higher education. We give students the right to complete, to increase flexibility, to extend the options for students and to extend the possibility of requalification. The reform also provides a clearly reinforced offer of teaching places at school for those who do not receive a regular apprenticeship. That's how we give everyone who wants it an opportunity for a place in the knowledge society. In our state budget, we have a solid budget of 800 million. NOK at this bet, and I hope that the new government chooses to continue the strong commitment we have started in completing high school. While our previous government's draft budget is like'music tel work' – as they say in the song – I'm afraid that the new government's budget in the field of knowledge is more like being on the 'wrong side take Mjøsa by bus'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e882	The teacher is one of the most important factors in how well the kids learn and how good the class environment is. The working party sees a great need to train and get more teachers. This government shall do so by educating more people in different places and by providing intakes that do not exclude competent potential teachers. We will provide better employment through strengthened local economy, more time to be with the students and less forced bureaucracy. And we're going to recruit teachers who have left the profession, with targeted campaigns in the next few years. This is a big problem. Does the representative Melby, who has been Minister of Knowledge of the Left for many years in the past, think that this job has been facilitated by the fact that 335 places of study were empty of teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e895	I myself have been working on teacher training for many years, both in Trondheim and in Oslo. Although the quality of teacher training is very important for what kind of teachers we get at the other end, it is also important that teacher training is attractive to very many of the good students we have at high school. What we did over eight years was to bet on making teacher training more attractive. We expanded it to become a master's degree. We know that it's important for many what kind of education there is. We also saw that the numbers of people applying for teacher training increased year by year, and that they were the highest ever while we were in government. I'm pretty sure the pandemic was a pretty strong setback for the recruitment of the teaching profession. We also failed to implement the recruitment campaigns we launched in the last year. I'm going to follow very closely the recruitment of teacher training and hope that we can work with today's government to ensure that we have good recruitment, and secure good teachers in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e904	There is no doubt that Norwegian school could have needed the 335 additional teachers who were not trained last year. While this happens, that we can't complete the education, there are many who leave the profession. The back door is straight up. The result is that the average was 25 pst. several unqualified annual works of education carried out in primary school with the Left in Government. Based on this development, how can the representative then feel that it was right to wish to separate around 20,000 teachers who have a lot of experience, are competent and able to stand in the profession and contribute to our having qualified teachers throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e909	We can hit each other in the head with numbers and statistics about how many unqualified teachers we have in Norwegian school. In fact, the figure was the lowest ever in the last year we were in government, and when I was Minister of Knowledge. This is because the state and the municipalities and Norwegian teachers together have made a huge leap, with almost 50 000 more trained. Without that promise, we would have been in an incredibly much more difficult situation than we are now. But I fully agree that the numbers are still too high. There are still too many people who lack the relevant skills in the subjects in which they teach. What I then want to do to face that problem is the opposite of what the government does. What the government is doing is they're lowering the list, so that more people can skip it. I rather want us to invest even more in further education and to make the teaching profession more attractive, so that we get even more qualified teachers, not even more like doing a slightly lower list.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e916	For us in the Center Party, it's a goal to be able to complete high school regardless of where you live or how much your parents earn. Unfortunately, many media headlines this fall show that the reality is not like that – for example. for Elias, who stood out in the NRK that the penitentiary did not even cover the rent of the house, and that he went great sums for the minus every single month. By means of the budget agreement, the new government and SV will begin to address this and increase the size of the outreach grant by 40 million. kr. Under the previous government, when the representative himself was a minister of knowledge, the direction for the outreacher was to impose higher demands and tighten the rules and scope of the scheme. My question is therefore: Does the Left share the view that increased residents' allowances are an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e928	Having equal access to good quality education across the country is absolutely crucial, and there are quite a number of factors that need to be put in place to do so. Having good scholarship schemes is important, and investing in quality in school is also important. What's happened in the last eight years is that we've been able to increase the rate of implementation in high school from a little over 70 pst. to now be about 80 pst. That means that almost 5,000 more rivers than before leave school with either a diploma or a diploma in hand, every year. With regard to the financial arrangements to enable people to take education throughout the country, it is important that they are good and that they ensure that we have a real equal right to education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e937	The left boasts of the government's policy for completing secondary education. I think that's a little strange, all the time statistical central agency just came up with a pretty hard report on recent years' development. There it comes, among others. until only 58 psts are completed among low-income pupils. secondary, towards 76 pst. completion of the remainder. The report also shows that the low-income background of the students is an explanatory reason why they are more likely to fall away. I think it's a pretty serious verdict after eight years of right-wing government school policy that completion of secondary education is a class-shared good. Will the representative Melby continue to boast of his own results, taking this into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e946	There is no doubt that there is a difference between how well students benefit from the school, and that the socio-economic background matters. The figures the representative referred to, said nothing about the development in the last eight years, whether it has been improved or worsened, but I would be very surprised if it was such that your background and your parents' economy didn't matter in the years SV put in government. In that case, it would have been very interesting and quite perceptive. This I think is a challenge that we all actually need to get better at, regardless of party color. I think we have to admit that none of us have managed well enough to address this, but what we have succeeded in our eight years is at least that we managed to increase the degree of completion, and that applies to all students. We managed to increase it from approx. 70 pst. to almost 80 pst., and that means something to absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e955	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e960	Giving everyone the freedom and opportunity to shape their own lives has always been the starting point for the knowledge policy of the labour movement. For ordinary people to have a say in ‘cut-off’ and to be lifted out of poverty and into work, it has been an important recognition that knowledge gives power — power over their own lives, power to change, power to make decisions. We humans need to know to act. Therefore, the dissemination of knowledge means the dissemination of power. And that's why people's ability to power their own lives and fate is about access to knowledge. This is precisely why the role of teacher, kindergarten teacher, environmental worker, SFO assistant, schoolleader, principal or special education is actually greater than the job title. Every day, our education system will support people’s ability to take power over their own lives – including those who have grown up ‘on the wrong they take the Mjøsa’. Our kindergartens and schools meet young people every day from different homes and different backgrounds. In recent years, differences between people have increased. This has meant that kindergarten and school duties have become more demanding and even more important. Kindergarten has a big impact on how our kids go on in the educational process. In the autumn the SSB published a report on the long-term effects of free core time and close follow-up in kindergartens. Among the findings is that minority language children who have had free core time in kindergarten have better reading skills at 8th stage. Good kindergartens give children a particularly good start in life. The kindergarten is today the part of the education course that costs each family the most in dollars and cents. That is why I am proud that from 1 August we will lower the price of kindergarten for the first time in many years. At the same time, we implement a quality promise in kindergartens. Our goal is to make our kindergartens even better and more accessible, whether you live at 'Vål'enga', in Alta or at Gjøvik. And instead of dividing the welfare into two groups – those who contribute taxes to the community, and those who have to stand by and get away from the community – we continue what has been a long tradition in Norway: we make broad, universal arrangements for all. Our kids are going to meet a school day where you can learn different ways and develop your skills and talents. We're going to train whole people who can use and develop all their skills. Therefore, this government will make the school more practical and varied. The school shall be for both those who learn the best from listening and reading with ‘music tell work’, and those who learn the most from creating ‘surfboard on the loop’ or ‘spike pallets’. Therefore, an important contribution to this budget is that we double the number of continuing training places in practical and aesthetic subjects. Norway needs more workers with knowledge and skills in the labour market. We have to train more skilled workers, and it 'quick, fast, fast'! We need both people who can take care of 'judgments that are worn out in their knees' and people who can drive large silver-grey trucks. We need people with diplomas and master's letters. For this reason, the government will strengthen its efforts to ensure a place of learning for anyone who wants to take a letter of formal education. Last year there were almost 7 000 unskilled applicants. This is an obvious weakness in our training system. For this reason, the government is proposing a sharp increase in the number of traineeships and traineeship guarantees. In total, counties receive 370 million. to strengthen the work of more places of learning. Today almost every 10 students attend private school. A fundamental question we have to ask ourselves is: should we allow privatisation to continue, with the transfer of power and funds from elected representatives to private school providers, or should we take back control? I believe that one of the finest things about Norwegian school is that students with different backgrounds and different interests meet in the same classrooms. We've seen what the decline in public school means, and what it does to a society, just by looking at Sweden. There is no need to repeat the same errors here in Norway. Meeting across the background of our children and young people gives us, as a society, a set of shared experiences and values that help build trust and a stronger community. It makes it easier to cooperate with, understand and respect both Borghild, Aspic, Ruslebiffen and some man from Hadeland in the workplace or the neighborhood later in life. That is the course this government has gone out with SV in the budget for 2022 – and I am proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e981	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e986	Free schools are an important complement to those who want a professional, educational or life-seeking alternative to public schools. I fear that the government is now tightening up the diversity and freedom of choice of pupils and families through alerted restrictions on the law of free school and tightening budgets. The government has already proposed in its draft budget for 2022 to cut 35 million. kr in the amount of the rent and capital allowances of primary schools, a grant which is an important part of the economic basis. This tightening could affect the quality of student provision. The 2020 pandemic may have contributed to reduced grant rates due to lower costs in the municipal sector. The government of Solberg pointed out that you have to look at how this turns out, and possibly compensate for it. Will the government come back to the Storting with proposals for increased appropriations in the context of the revised national budget if it appears that the calculation models have given unreasonable results?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e993	The government's aim is to strengthen the common public school. At the same time, I would warn against carrying petrol to the fire on the issue of capital cuts to private schools. It is a grant that goes beyond the ordinary grant for the operation of schools and does not relate to the grant you receive when you are accepted as a private school. The ordinary grants to the private schools already established and operating continue as in the past. I want to say in all humility that it will be special to advance the process of the revised national budget here from the Parliamentary Chair spontaneously, but that we shall do what we can to ensure that the schools that have students, no matter who runs the schools today, are able to make a good offer. It is the goal of this government — although we prefer to push for the strengthening of our common public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1000	The question raised by the representative Hagerup concerned the case of transfer to the high schools resulting from lower costs in municipal schools, and that it is important to follow it beyond spring if there are other reasons than real falls in costs. My question, however, concerns the teacher-specialist system. After the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV agreed to remove this system with a pen stroke, strong reactions have been received from the Education Association, the municipalities and, of course, from those involved. What is alarming is that the government and the SV’s decision came just a few days before the final evaluation came, and the final evaluation is fundamentally positive – contributing to the professional updating of staff, contributing to teacher cooperation, increasing students’ learning outcomes, making good teachers want to stay in school. What is the professional basis of the government and the Swedish Government for cutting the entire system with a pen stroke?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1009	Like the representative Sanner, I am sure that those who have been involved in the teacher-specialist scheme have experienced it as positive. At the same time, it is an important goal for the government that the mechanisms we have to increase competence and help to develop both the individual teacher and the professional communities in school are party-based schemes where we work together to develop schemes that stand out over time. I am absolutely sure that there is much to learn from the evaluation that came from the work already done, but we are quite clear in the Hurdal platform that we want to bring forward new and other arrangements for the kind of professional replenishment through working life at school, and come back to it. This was a pilot project, and the pilot project is aware that at some point they would like to finish. Now we're going to learn from what's done, and find a system that's even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1016	As mentioned earlier here today, the government has added up to a cut of almost 400 million. kr to private kindergartens, and very many in the kindergarten sector are deeply concerned about this. About one-third of private kindergartens today are in deficit, and if you look at those who are in deficit, and who go almost to zero, the number is about half of the private kindergartens. We also know that about 60 pst. of the private kindergartens are individual kindergartens, which then have no one else to borrow, except for the income they themselves receive. My question to the Council of State is what she thinks will happen to the kindergartens that are currently in deficit or in zero, when they get their income further cut, and whether she thinks there is a risk that kindergartens will have to lay down as a result of these cuts in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1024	Discussing the pension proposal for the private kindergartens with representatives of the Progress Party is something like ‘when the marshaller bit, it dropped the roof’. So here we're left to discuss the same thing, and I'm going to answer the same thing as I did last time. Private kindergartens have over time been paid too much as compensation for pensions in proportion to what they have had in actual expenditure on pensions. We have to do something about that, both because the money we spend on kindergarten is going to work for our children, we have to make sure that we have legitimacy in the population, so that the money doesn't go to great profits, and we're going to make sure that kindergartens that run well and that need a more accurate grant, get it. That is why we have not only made this adjustment to the retirement allowance, we have also said that we should review the schemes with support for the private kindergartens and come back to the Stortinget with a proposal that we believe can help to balance this better. The objective is high quality, predictable frameworks and the ability of private kindergartens to operate well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1033	The schools and kindergartens are in an incredibly stressed situation right now, with sky-high sick leave and too low staffing in many places to deal with the situation, and this crew and capacity crisis has already lasted several weeks. Around the country, more home schooling has now been introduced and students are less present at school. Now it's immediately Christmas holidays, but I'm worried about school start-ups in the New Year, I'm worried about the school year next year, and I'm worried about the consequences this gets. It is not certain that the infection situation will improve in January. What does the Council of State do with staffing at school to ensure that students can meet in January, in the first place, and what does the Council of State do in the longer term to do something about this underlying crewing and capacity crisis that we see in both schools and kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1040	I share the representative's concern about the situation in schools and kindergartens for several reasons. It is a goal for the government to protect children and young people as far as it can be done in order to have intervention. It will still be a goal, and then we have to hope and believe that the measures we now have for society as a whole, including for school and kindergarten, will help bring down the infection rates. I wish I had a little more rock’n roll response than what’s the truth, namely that high sick leave also makes it difficult to put on temporary workers where there’s a need for it. Our municipalities are compensated for additional expenses to the corona, we have made it easier for students to work, we ensure that pensioners can work without curtailment of the pension, and we clearly say that overtime and temporary employment should be compensated, so that municipalities and schools should not be afraid of it. But right now it's quite right, as the representative says, that sick leave is high, some are also in quarantine, and we hope and believe that this needs to get better in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1047	Unicef, Save Children, the Children’s Ombudsman and some other organizations are warning about the vulnerable children in school now. Thank them for raising their voice for those who are often mute in our society. But we know that to discover the vulnerable children, to see the changed behavior, to have a good enough relationship to ask the difficult questions – and not least to have time to follow up the answers you get, in a good enough way – time is needed. 5 pst. by the country’s contact teachers replied in a survey conducted by the Education Association before the Corona, that they had enough time to do their job. That means 95 pst. didn't have it. That's not good enough. We lose a lot of teachers from school every day, and they say that the reason is that they don't have time to do their job. What concrete measures does the Minister think it is possible to make sure that contact teachers have better time to follow up children and young people at school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1054	I share the representative's concern about both the response burden on children and young people and the ability of teachers to have enough time with each student. To start with the part about the coronary situation, the goal of keeping schools and kindergartens open is important for several reasons. One thing is the vulnerable children, the other is that we know that school and kindergarten are the starting point for all other services that are in contact with our children and young people, and are it closed there, they are harder to get hold of. So I think we have to do a bigger job in terms of time at school. That is why the government is committed to a trust reform. There's an invitation to the sector gradually to say something about what we can do less of, to have more time for what's most important. I also believe that strengthening the local economy, enabling more teachers to be employed, is an important contribution. And then I hope and believe that the negotiations between the parties that deal with both time and pay will lead, so that more people will feel more satisfied and have the opportunity to spend the time they need on each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1061	In order to provide good, adapted training for students, we need to know something about where the students stand professionally, what they can do, and what they need more help to develop. I know that on the left hand side, the scepticism of national tests has been quite widespread. I can understand some of the scepticism myself, among other things. the fear of a ranking of schools and, in particular, the criticism that today’s national tests provide teachers with insufficient information about the individual student. It was also one of the reasons why we started an overall review of the quality assessment system, together with the parties. One of the things we decided to do was develop a new type of test that we call progress tests, which will provide much more detailed information about the individual student and provide a basis for adapted training. When I saw the Hurdal platform, I expected there to be something about national tests, but I was really quite surprised that this is exactly this type of test government will stop. What is the Minister of Knowledge's reason for stopping the test that will provide the most information about the student and the best basis for adapted training?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1068	The question of how we try, test, and measure at school has created a great deal of commitment for a long, long time. It is understandable, because it is as the representative himself says: on the one hand it is useful to have good information about our students, on the other hand it is not useful to have information that can be used for grips and measures that do not necessarily work for the best of all students. Therefore, the government has said in the Hurdal platform that we want to pause the work on progress tests, just to make sure that the way in which those tests might be designed – or whether they are replaced by other tests or no tests – is the right decision to achieve the very first goal I had in mind: that there should be information we can use to make school life better for all our students. I don't belong to those who are against measuring and testing our students, so that we have good information about them. But we always have to make sure that the tests we give are useful, that the information we get is useful, and that it can help make things better for Norwegian school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1075	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1080	Good education is important. It provides the basis for our competence and helps to update our knowledge, and thus we develop the whole country further. Today we train too few teachers, nurses and doctors in Norway. Not everyone can live by building a ‘surfboard on the loop’, as the country simply does not go around. I am therefore pleased that the Hurdals Platform government is warning of a commitment to the professional studies where we need more labour. We're already taking the starting points in this year's budget, where we're adding 15 new study places to medicine in Tromsø. In North Norway, we need doctors and teachers in particular, and it was also important for the government to start the escalation right here. Professional training is something that the government is particularly focused on. We will come back to Stortinget with our own proposal to increase the nurse's admission from the fall of 2022 by 500 new students, where we will fund up to 300, and where 200 will be taken from our own current framework. Because even though I wish I didn't have to talk so much about the coronary apnea today, today's situation shows, among other things. a great need to train more nurses. The government will contribute to this. During the coronary apathy, the students have also worn a heavy should. Since we had to reintroduce new measures, the government will also come back to Stortinget with its own proposal to increase support for student relations by 40 million. kr, aimed at their prevention work around mental health. In addition, the government will propose 100 million. kr to universities, colleges and colleges to provide students with additional professional support and to maintain progress in their studies. In the future, we will meet an increasingly challenging demography. We get older, we give birth to fewer children, and skills needs change. I think one of the keys to meeting the changed skills needs is to reach more age groups, to people in different life situations. Not everyone can move to a big city to study full-time. Someone has a family, a house, a job, a cat and a trailer with a trailer they have to take care of. This is why it is important to rethink education policy. It's also the average age of Norwegian students is already 29 years old. It points to the fact that this is not a district phenomenon, but that it is simply that a larger proportion of the students have a life next door. Education must be there where people live. A training offer spread across the country can increase the recruitment of education, increase access to education and can therefore also improve the availability of skilled labour. Next year's budget shows a clear commitment here, where the government is spending 250 million. kr to bet on decentralised education, including Nesna. Higher education ensures the basic plan of the Norwegian educational offer. Equally important is to secure the basics of our research. It is the development of new knowledge and ideas that continue to develop Norway as a nation. Then we need to focus on the excellent basic research at a high international level and research that is close to challenges and the good solutions in both business and public services. We need researchers who are developing new ideas and solutions, and who are not afraid to speak out about their research. Scientists are the top experts in their fields. Therefore, it is important to challenge them to participate more fully in the societal debate. It's an important part of the community mission. Academic freedom is becoming increasingly topical. I want to give the previous government the honor of putting down a commission for this important topic. The protection of academic freedom will be central to the future. None of us know what the future will bring, but we know that the labour market will change. Therefore, lifelong learning is one of the focus areas of government. We're going to need constant refuelling of new knowledge. The Loan Fund has been working for a few years on a project that will make support schemes more flexible and more adapted to adults who need financial support for short-term training. We have not found room for extra funding for this project in the budget that will be adopted, but it will be an important piece in the government's ambitions for lifelong learning. I would therefore like to ask the Loan Fund to continue working on the project in our current budget, with a view to returning to the Stortinget on the matter in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1105	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1110	The decline in society affects students twice: both the professional and social benefits and the community at the place of study, and the possibility of additional income through work. Our government promoted a number of proposals to remedy the situation for the students, partly through communication and partly through a separate arrangement in the Loan Fund where the students could receive increased loans and then get a part refund as a scholarship if they had lost income due to a cut-off. I am pleased that Borten Moe now announces increased support for the relationship – after cutting some of the support – and for the professional follow-up of the students. But what remains is the students who lose the possibility of extra income, and I'm recording that Borten Moe in the VG last week announced that there would be a package for students. Is it so that you will now look again at the scheme that the previous government had, with the possibility of increased loans and then get to refund some of it as a scholarship?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1116	What Mr Sanner refers to is an important topic. At the same time, I would like to say that the government has come up with support schemes also for the students on current bands in the last week. We brought a package for power support related to the Loan Fund last week. The students will also benefit from the electricity system proposed and negotiated with SV. We are today notifying extra support for communication, and we are notifying significant extra support to universities, vocational schools and universities. Nevertheless, we will of course see if there are good arrangements to compensate for the loss of income – now it is not true – but many of the industries that are now confined as a consequence of the coronary apathy, typically are the industries in which many students work, in order to obtain the necessary extra income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1123	I have some experience in dealing with pandemics and am aware that it is demanding, and that things are happening continuously, and I am glad that the government has also followed up some of the initiatives we have taken. It is important that we can cooperate in these areas. What I specifically mentioned is a tool that lies in the drawer of the Council of State, namely the possibility of increased loans and then having something refunded – up to 40 pst. – as a grant if you can prove that you have lost your income due to closure. Let me then conclude in a good, cooperative spirit and say that I hope that the Council of State will look at that action. It is not an action that needs to be investigated for several weeks; it is in the drawer. There are many students who are now going back to places of study after the New Year and who do not want to have the possibility of additional income, while at the same time having been hit socially and professionally at the place of education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1130	I want to confirm that there is no divergence between the reality picture that the representative Sanner is drawing up, and what I see myself. Of course, we will look at the scheme that was previously within the Loan Fund, and we will also look at other types of income insurance schemes. At least what is safe and will be important is that we have to consider – also a little depending on the length of this cut-off – the need for income protection for this group in society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1135	Like the previous replicator, I would also like to address the issue of the difficult situation that many students experience when they lose their part-time job and their part-time income as a result of the new measures. We know that, among other things: The catering and hotel industries are particularly hard hit. One of the schemes introduced by the Loan Fund was to apply for additional deferrals in excess of the usual allowance. It shall expire on December 2021. When we see that the crisis not only continues economically for the individual student, but perhaps even reinforces with the latest measures, I wonder if the Council of State will take the initiative that the suspension of payments scheme you have had will continue into 2022 as long as we see that the situation is as bad as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1142	It's like, while you're in education, you don't pay anything. Isolatedly, deferral of payment on loans after you have come to work, after you have moved on in life. I'm not going to reject it, of course, but it's important for me to say that it's not a particularly accurate measure to take students in the situation they're in, rather on the contrary. There are no students who want to benefit from such a measure – simply because they do not pay any instalments or interest on the liquidity that they receive on an ongoing basis through the Loan Fund. So a general observation that we all might be able to include: it's a very strong labour market in Norway right now. There is no doubt that there are many who are severely affected by the closures that have taken place and that the government has introduced, but there is also plenty of work and income opportunities available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1151	I would also like to ask about the situation of many students now, where students lose part-time jobs in hard-hit industries, perhaps especially in the food industry. Unlike other employees who also pay taxes, students do not receive a daily allowance. A lot of people are now on the bar. Some students cannot afford to go home for Christmas. Governments have announced emergency measures; there is support for cooperation, and there is support for the institutions, but the Council of State has not so far notified income protection. So we're sitting here on the stairs waiting for the crisis package. The first question is, When will the Council of State come to the Greatness of the crisis response? The second question is, will the Council consider not to give credit cards, i.e. loans, to the students as emergency measures – as the central party criticized in the previous period – but rather to provide a system of equivalent daily allowances for students?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1160	Let me just say again: from the government's side, over the last two weeks, we have been making a series of efforts to improve the liquidity of students and to improve the offer related to the difficult situation of universities and universities right now. It's too early yet to say how this is going to play out beyond next year. Fortunately, most of the teaching had been completed when we took the last tightening measures. One was in the examination period; it is now completed. My goal is that we should come in a relatively fast new year in an almost normal situation. I hope at least that we will get a study start and a race beyond the spring party that is okay. To the question asked by the representative, we consider various forms of income protection and liquidity supply on an ongoing basis and will return to Stortinget when we may have something clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1169	One in four has had suicidal thoughts. Almost half experience mental symptoms. Half feel lonely, and eight out of ten say that the biggest challenge is a lack of contact with fellow students and skilled teachers. These are numbers from the so-called SHoT studies. These are our students. This is our future, and this is serious. There is no need for optimism for the next SHOT study either. Students often fall between two mental health-related chairs. What is the reason why the government chooses to withdraw the 70 million? kr that has not been used from the previous crisis package to students, instead of translating it into good health care for students?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1174	The reason for their withdrawal is the State's and Storting's own budgetary regulations. Money that is not used up is returned to the treasury. That's it. But I announced here today that we're granting 40 new ones for next year, for the same purposes, so that the activity can be maintained and continued. So I guess none of us believe that the partially hard-handed corona handling has no consequences beyond the control of infection. We are deeply involved in what is completely normal human behavior and human needs. It has tremendous consequences for all of us, and not least for students, perhaps especially those who meet in a new place of study without a social network, and who are referred to digital educational services. There is great cause for concern, and it underlines the importance of reopening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1181	One of the things I appreciate at the Council of State Ola Borten Moe is that I perceive him as an honest politician, one who does not waver at the points of view even if he gets criticism, and who is standing in a storm. Criticism experienced that Borten Moe had a harvest when he confirmed in the VG that there was not going to be a commitment to study support this fall. As I pointed out in a previous reply, both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have opted for an increase in student support, increasing the purchasing power of the students. But we saw in the period 2005–2013 that the three parties were unable to fulfill that promise. Now I'd like to challenge the Council of State, and I hope he's as honest as he tends to be: Is a raise in student support something he's going to prioritize these four years, or is there any other bets he'd rather spend money on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1186	We've been very honest on the government platform, the Hurdal platform, on what will be given priority in the future. Let me first say that a general increase in purchasing power among the students comes through the annual adjustments in the state budget. What the students want, on the other hand, is to link this up to G, and then it's to increase it up to a level that's about that. on the one hand, as a minimum pensioner. They say that there's no reason to work alongside the studies. The survey shows that Norwegian students do not work more than before. Nor do they work more than their European colleagues. I don't think it's wrong to work next to studying, as long as it doesn't go beyond the study progress and the quality. Then we've said that we're going to put in place a twelfth month for those who have children, those who need it the most. So we've already confirmed through the budget agreement with SV that it's going to be more reasonable dental treatment for students. I think that is a targeted and very good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1196	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1203	“You’d grow older no’ big, my beeswad has my fortune, but work at the bottom of the factory dee has now been given you,” said Rolf Paulsen. And there are many like Rolf Paulsen. In the years ahead, Rolf and his colleagues will play an important role in the conversion of Norway. Rolf said something else that is worth noting: ‘In competitions, you're going to start counting, so it's true that you were a boy.’ We can't afford that anymore. Competence must be available to everyone, including a twin like Rolf, who would not leave the beautiful flatlands for everything in the world. Ensuring all access to competence throughout life, regardless of age, place of residence and situation of life, is becoming crucial in the future. Education is and must be an activity, not an institution or a building. To a greater extent, we need to facilitate that education, training and education are not physically bound to a building in a specific location. Education policy must not be used as a district policy instrument, as we see the government now adding up when they push North University to continue the activity at Nesna. Unfortunately, it could go beyond other important and effective interventions to increase access to decentralised education across the country. Reducing education policy to rural policy weakens the strength of both. There is a great need for expertise across the country. Therefore, the government of Solberg strengthened the vocational education sector significantly in recent years. The need for more skilled workers is high, and the vocational education sector contributes to good and relevant education in close cooperation with labour and business. The study federations have a broad societal mission. They contribute to ensuring learning for all. The voluntary sector contributes to the development of skills within and outside the labour market, where organised learning is offered, but also learning through participation in the organisations’ regular activities. The study federations can reach out to people who are not normally looking for the public education system or who are out of work. The courses can serve as a springboard for further training or formal education. Future education is the sum of the many different levels and actors, both public and private, offering skills. The most important thing for good educational provision across the country is that competent professional environments can offer a combination of physical, flexible, digital and collective training courses. What we need in addition are competent and courageous school owners at all levels who dare take action that ensures us attractive education for the future. Then Rolf Paulsen can still stay at Toten and study at Nord universitet or at Humboldt University in Berlin, if he wants to. It had a "borse father" like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1222	Following the elections on 13 September, Norway has been given a new government, a government that has developed a platform for Norway to change the direction and course of ordinary people and for how the whole country is to be used. Next year's budget is just the beginning of how to put individuals and communities at the centre of a new and fair policy with less differences. Based on the Solberg government's budget, the budgetary process has given 'worst back, sore knuckles' and the feeling of scratching 'on the knee in potato fields', but 'we're well done in suffocating once'. The budget of the Education and Research Committee is the main budgetary area for giving children and young people a good and safe start to life. Good kindergartens are an important contribution to providing a safe and healthy upbringing for all children. In kindergarten, children shall experience inclusion, community and friendship and meet enough safe adults with the right competences. Employees shall be given the confidence to spend their time and expertise with their children. ‘The beast of life is free of charge; however, the debt is too great’. To bet on kindergartens is prevention that ensures that all children have equal opportunities to follow their dreams and create a good life. In the Hurdal platform, we state that we will reduce the maximum price in kindergarten to the price level of the 2003 Kindergarten Agreement, and that this will be done during 2022. That's what happens now, because we're already reducing the maximum price. Families with one child get NOK 2,915 more to route with as early as next year. At a time when the pandemic is embossing the economy, the power bill shows red numbers, and “we don’t need to fire with it,” we must at least make sure that kindergarten and SFO don’t become an extra cut in the family budget of ordinary people. From the fall next year, all first classes throughout Norway will have free core time in the school leisure system. It has been a long time since we have had a similar welfare promise in Norway. I am pleased that the new government is so clearly raising children and young people, and it assures me and many more that we have already done so much well. Soon it's Christmas, and 'we're grumbling'. We smile because next year's budget will provide a better everyday life for all children and young people, and it may also make the fun of the daemon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1239	A good growth lasts a lifetime, and the budget and direction that are thrust out through the Hurdal platform is a good start for us to make sure exactly that. For us in the Center Party, it is, and has always been, important that you have equal opportunities, with a good education offer wherever you live and what your starting point is – a training offer where we provide children and young people with the tools they need to cope with in life, and that educates the skills that business and Norwegian society need in the future. That's why we want to go ahead to make sure that we get more through the education cycle. We know that it's often the students who aren't the strongest theoretical students who fall through. That is why we have now started working on a more practical and varied education in the school. We are strengthening the practical-esthetic subjects in the further training of teachers, we are not now introducing the extra hour in the natural sciences as the previous government wanted, and we have announced a reform of high school. Professionals are going to get a raise, and we're going to give 114 million. kr in addition to the Solberg Government budget to ensure more than one apprenticeship. This is how we ensure that more people get an education, but also that we have enough hands in school and care for the elderly, and to build roads — and perhaps to snort a ‘surfboard with red strips on’. [[...]] At the same time, we know that in some areas this is not enough, especially with regard to the large shortage of nurses, doctors and teachers. That's why we're setting up 15 new places to study medicine in Tromsø. We're going to ensure professional training is a promise, and we're going to start with it as early as next year, when we're going to ensure 500 more places in nursing school. It's an increase in capacity of 10 pst. Then we live in urban and rural areas, between mountains and fjords in Norway, and educational provision must be adapted to this. The hubs in this are our municipalities, which get a large increase in free income that they can use where they see their needs. In addition, we introduce a grant per primary school, which helps you to avoid having to drop out of schools to save money. We're increasing the outreach grant, and we're spending money on a significant investment in decentralised education, both with teacher training at Nesna and grants to Nordic art and film high school. Overall, this education budget and the Hurdal platform are a good starting point for the further work that will both reduce the differences between people and make use of the whole country. But the hub of doing all this is our employees in the growing-up sector, those who set up every day and put down an effort for our children and young people. So I'll end up giving you a big thanks. You are the children's, but not least all of us other people's everyday heroes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1254	The Norwegian business community is in desperate need of expertise at all levels and is struggling to recruit enough professionals. The districts may lack both people and competence, while the cities lack people with the right skills. Only a few years ago, it was not a major crisis to have completed secondary education. It was always a job to get, just one could and would. It's not like that anymore. More and more jobs require formalised skills and fewer opportunities for unskilled workers. "You will never be able to decide when such music drives and sours inside my shack," I thought as I sat in the box at Rimi for several years. Later, I worked through both storage and management positions. The experience of shop and warehouse work has given me valuable competence in customer service, relationships and practical work. It has later become both a Bachelor's degree and a Master's degree in management, but there is no doubt that a large part of my competence has been built up over several years in the workplace. As a good adult, I see that this competence has been at least as important as the theory from the school bench. It is the sum of theory and practice that will provide great opportunities for tomorrow's work. But then the door of education must be open to everyone. I am concerned that not everyone can participate in this because they lack the entrance ticket. In fact, there are half a million adults in Norway, between the ages of 25 and 59, who have not completed secondary education but who have valuable skills after many years of working life. We need to ensure that more adults complete their secondary education. For the most part, the distinction in Norway today is between those who are at work and those who are not, and the key to working life is knowledge and competence. Competence policy has been a central element of Solberg’s policy and crisis management, and the pandemic has shown the importance of strengthening the instruments of competence policy. Increased recruitment to the professions, strengthening relevance and quality of training and proper dimensioning in line with the needs of the labour and business sectors are important for Norwegian enterprises and our future well-being. Ensuring an increase in the proportion of students who complete and survive is crucial. In the future, we also need to ensure that the emphasis is placed on the development of skills and the ability to adapt throughout the education and working life. The Solberg government has developed a range of measures to reach people in different situations of life and different industries with different needs. Now we need to take positive lessons from the coronary apathy and use digital platforms and tools to complement and make education and education available to more people. For the future, we need to see education and training as a lifelong activity, where everyone is given the opportunity to fill in with competence, regardless of background, where one lives, and the situation in which one lives. Only then will we create a sustainable welfare society and ensure everyone a place in the world of work – because we two should not go alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1269	In the reply exchanges and in previous articles, the coronary apathy has been addressed by several. The pandemic has strengthened the need for a stronger community, where we solve the major challenges together and ensure that the crisis does not create greater differences. Many are tired now, and a high level of sick leave in addition to the daily pandemic management is rife. Like several others in here, we get the same feedback: Employees tell too few days at work, and it goes on the margins too often. Some parents are concerned, and employees have been under a heavy workload over time. For the Workers' Party, it is important that children and young people have the best offer possible, and that we do what we can to protect them. Where we can say that and facilitate it, it's the employees in schools and kindergartens who do it in practice. Every day they go to work, they make it possible to maintain the most normal everyday life for children and young people — safe adults who offer comfort and a trap in kindergarten, and teachers in school who continue teaching even when they press around the community. We know that the situation is too demanding for many, and I am glad that the government has been very clear that the municipalities will have to cover additional costs related to the pandemic. It includes temporary workers and overtime, which was also specified by the Council of State in a previous article. It's tough for many, and earlier in the pandemic, no employees in schools and kindergartens were given priority in the vaccination. The government has now given feedback to the municipalities that this group should be given priority. Hopefully that will help with the manning situation in the long term. Many students have been sitting on their own in the past few years. We know that the pandemic affects students both professionally and socially, and the speech of the students' well-being and health studies is serious. I am pleased that the government is proposing funds and concrete measures to strengthen students' mental health by using student relationships, and that they are proposing 100 million. kr to ensure study progress. These are absolutely necessary measures to help students in a difficult situation. It's hard times, and there's a lot of people who are tired. I think there are a lot of people who want us not to see more and new waves and new mutations, but we have to set up where we can, for the kids, the students and the employees. I have full confidence that the government will follow the situation closely and come back with new measures when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1286	Equal opportunities for knowledge and education are one of the most important things we have in Norwegian society. That is why the policy to be followed by the new government is so right. How much your parents serve, and where you live in the country, should not be critical of how well education you receive. But it's still like this somewhere and sometimes. Teacher shortages are greatest in the districts, and apostasy is greatest among those students who have parents who did not take education themselves. What municipality you live in determines how good school buildings you get, how often your school health service is at your school, and how good and up-to-date you have. These challenges are to be addressed by this government. For this reason, we need to invest in knowledge and education rather than tax cuts for the ‘breath powder boys’ and the others who have had too much too long. Trust, cohesion and equal opportunities always start in kindergarten. Therefore, this government makes kindergarten available to more people. For the first time since 2013, the maximum price is cut in kindergartens. The maximum price is reduced to NOK 3 500 per month. This will amount to almost NOK 3000 per year for one child and almost NOK 5000 if you have two children in the nursery. SFO is also a major cost for many families with children. On a national basis, almost 100,000 children go home alone when school is over and are not allowed to join the SFO. The introduction of free core time for first-class students is an important measure for everyone to participate in. The government is also giving 2 billion. kr more to the municipalities than the Solberg government provided. This allows municipalities to invest in the school through several employees, quality development and the purchase of new equipment. We also start work on a secondary school reform, which the previous government left behind. Youth school is important, but also a very challenging time for many. We have to make sure that students get the skills and skills they need to succeed, manage higher education and lay the groundwork for getting into the world of work. We also have to reduce the great transition there is too many to go from high school to high school. The budget we have submitted is a good start, but it takes time to set a new course after eight years with a right-wing government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1303	Higher education is not just about formal competence we need for the future. It is also about, among other things, social cohesion and district policy. When we count places of study, we have to have more thoughts in our head at the same time. In our budget, we provide funding for 15 new courses for medical training at UiT, which is a conscious and wise priority. In addition, 100 million is given. kr extra to decentralised education, and one has asked the North University to restore the education at the Nesna study site. I record in the media debates that some people, both in the sector and in other parties, are concerned. They are concerned both about the quality of education provision in the districts and that our governance signals can threaten autonomy in the university and higher education sectors. Among other things, I record a concern about signals that go on campus location, and that work relevance can undermine this autonomy. To take the last one first, it has to be very clear that research is and will be free. Nobody – nor do we politicians – knows exactly what kind of knowledge it will need in the future. However, when we link education and research to work relevance and concrete challenges in our day, this does not mean that we do not believe that knowledge and education have intrinsic value. For the Workers' Party, it is important to take care of humanities and other knowledge traditions that are not only about living off but also about living for. Finally, decentralised education shall be provided by established colleges and universities, and the degrees offered shall be subject to the same accreditation as the rest of the sector. The Party and the Centre are therefore not concerned about the quality of education. Regional training centres will be a hub and an engine in the development of skills, which will be of great value both locally and regionally, and will meet the needs of both the private and public sectors. So it's not about b-training, what's going to happen in the districts and in the training centres. It was not Vazelina, but the poet Henrik Wergeland, from my neighbouring municipality, Eidsvoll, who wrote: "The Book Shelf is the ladder by which you become the equal of your superior." Let's take this to us from a social perspective and have many thoughts in mind at the same time when it comes to higher education. Here's a sector that's too important to have political games and cheap rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1321	Every day thousands of Norwegian students are taught by unqualified teachers. More than 27 000 teachers in the Norwegian school lack teacher training, and this is a major problem, especially in the north of Norway. Some municipalities have gone to the stage where they offer bonus schemes to recruit teachers to their municipality. Red fear that this can lead to a- and b-communities – those who can afford, and those who can't afford it. Recruitment cannot be solved through local pay schemes and bonuses. There must be collective solutions that raise the salary for everyone. This is also the trade movement crystal clear on. We think we have to do something about the recruitment. We have to do something about the pay, we have to make sure that the equal pay pot, and not least, we have to make sure that teachers have actually struck. We have to do something about the work situation. Today there are almost 40,000 teachers who do not work at school. It would cover up the 27,000 that we have, that don't have education-- plus, plus. In a survey of these, they paid particular attention to the increasing time spent on office work, on form completion and on reporting, while they felt that they had less time for the student, for preparing and carrying out teaching. "Come and set us free, from paperwork, bookkeeping and mess." Give the teacher time to practice his profession. Have faith in the profession. Give the teacher time to follow up the student, follow the group, follow up the class and perform their profession in a good way. There may be some of the most important steps we take to ensure the recruitment of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1330	Report of the Storberget Committee - You are welcome! – has received a high level of attention and has created a high level of involvement in the kindergarten sector. It's not for no reason. The proposals concern 140 000 kindergarten children and half a million people in this country, all of whom have a close relationship with a private nursery, either as children, parents, employees or owners. The majority of the sample provides for grips that will dramatically change the basis for the operation of private kindergartens. It's been many years since the kindergarten agreement, and the sector has changed since then. There is a need for a review of the funding system in order to ensure the operational basis of the independent kindergartens, while at the same time contributing to the transparency of the larger chains. Safe kindergartens with employees who thrive at work, where children can expand and gain social experience and valuable learning through play, are one of the most important things that politicians can contribute to. Good kindergartens with competent employees are a valuable investment for society and for individuals. It's a very important contribution to preventing our kids from ending up nailing 'Palls on the Ransom', to say the word 'Vazelina'. For the Right, the quality and content of the provision of children is the most important thing, but we are also concerned about caring for the great diversity we have of kindergartens. Today we have full child care coverage in Norway, and it is thanks to entrepreneurs – individuals with a glowing commitment and a genuine desire to give children the best possible start to life. The private kindergartens are valuable to us as societies. Many of the entrepreneurs in the kindergarten sector have, by investing savings, their own and others' time, created safe kindergartens and their own and others' jobs because they have wanted to give our children a good offer. We need those who always go ahead and give others something to stretch to, so that the quality increases in both private and public kindergartens. It also applies to kindergarten chains, which are important drivers of quality. Right will ensure predictability also of the chains. Kindergartens provide equal opportunities for different children. It is very valuable for each child and for the big community that we ensure a healthy, transparent and diverse kindergarten sector that gives our children a good start in life and parents freedom of choice and security. I will end by thanking all kindergarten staff for their fantastic efforts over two difficult years. Now it’s time to wish everyone a good trip ‘home’ to count Christmas’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1347	That was a good wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1353	I want to draw some important points out. The increased municipal framework will be in 2022 at a completely different level than if we had not received a government change. This results, among other things, in: rash for kindergartens and schools throughout the country. The money allocated to kindergartens and schools must benefit the children. In addition, the price of kindergarten space is reduced. With the Right it had become more expensive. This makes a difference in the wallet to families with young children. Infant families and all others with a desire and need for higher education shall also mark the change of government, with a significantly greater focus on decentralised education. We need people to take education in larger parts of life and in larger parts of the country. One prerequisite is good student welfare. That's why I'm glad that there's money on the Ministry of Health's budget for actions for students' mental health and dental health. The government has also provided a package to compensate for high electricity prices, where the students are involved, and announces several actions to ensure the future of the students. In the budget for 2022, funds for both Nesna and Nordland are in place. Resources for green research are also positive. Otherwise, it's fascinating to listen to the opposition parties, especially those who really forgot what they did in government. For example, in the budgetary unity between the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in 2020. More cuts – cut to digital education, cut to lost study progress, cut to improve teaching and research facilities, to mention something. The lots that have made budgetary settlements over the last eight years need not be thrown stone into glasshouses. It’s not like ‘we’re peeling old records’ just because ‘we’ve learned that old records sing best’. Right-wing speakers address practical learning in primary school, the completion of secondary education, and the possibility for more adults to take both professional and higher education. Then there is every reason to enjoy the Labour Party-Center Party policy. Practical learning is given greater space both at school and in the further training of teachers, and by stopping separation and changing the admission to teacher training, more qualified teachers are required to be in school. The completion reform and the right to re-qualification shall provide more opportunities for completion of higher education and for taking a new letter. A commitment to decentralised education is also a prerequisite for more people to take up higher education. Then the Right should decide whether to criticize or want more of this. If we are to learn from infectious diseases, it can be done, among other things. is about the value of smaller and decentralised offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1372	We need more proud trade union workers. ‘You have a clear setup Scream created me surfboard soon In high school this year You made a drawing yesterday. For: You created surfboards in prunes You cut out surfboards on the loop With red strips on’ The practical and aesthetic subjects in school have been reduced in the last eight years under the right-hand government, and the school’s sloppy discipline is almost absent. There may no longer be any children dreaming of making surfboards in plywood on the loop 'with red strips on'. In order to increase the number of professionals, we must start by raising the practical and aesthetic subjects at school, so that children and young people can discover their skills and the joy of practical subjects. The Government of Støre will facilitate the school’s skills and learning venues to implement practical learning methods in all disciplines. We want to ensure that students are given the opportunity to choose more practical and aesthetic subjects at school. We will also facilitate the possibility for more teachers to take on-the-job training in these areas. In the Hurdal platform, the government has clear ambitions in this area, and they announce a reform of secondary school that has been requested by several teams for many years, but on which the right-wing government has not been able to deliver. The principle of primary education is more important in several places than in primary education. In close cooperation with the host municipalities and the labour force, the municipalities have built up a supply structure that is dimensioned by local and regional conditions and needs. That's why it was extra good that the Støre government reversed the required character-based recording of the right-wing government. This determines the states best for themselves. We want to strengthen the work of securing a place for everyone who wants to take a letter. At the same time, we need to ensure that those who are skilled workers are a further career path by investing in the education and training of the labour force. Higher vocational education or vocational education has been developed in close cooperation with the social partners and must provide essential and necessary skills which can be used rapidly in the workplace. Through the Hurdal Platform, the government has clear ambitions for 1 000 new post-school places every year for five years. We want to ensure, in cooperation with the social partners, the development of quality and quantity in line with the business needs of properly qualified workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1409	For us, 21 months — almost two years — have been marked by pandemics, with imprisonment, less social activity, leave from work, home schooling and self-study. How this affects me or everyone else, we actually don't know the extent of yet. What I know is that the years I had as a student at the beginning of the 20s were years that really helped shape me like the man I am today. Through the pandemic, teachers and students have made enormous extra efforts to carry out online education. We have taken seven-mile steps in digital development. Nevertheless, you can never replace the physical meeting with the student environment and the teaching place. There are no appropriations from any government budget or government that can bring back two years from a young person's life. We still have to do what we can, and I'm very happy that the government is proposing to spend 140 million. kr to start up and extend measures for students also in 2022. In the period we have behind us, we also see that it has become more focused on the mental health of young people. In the Hurdal platform, we are also quite clear that we want to strengthen mental health services for students under the direction of the municipalities in cooperation with the communities. The Hurdal platform also has clear ambitions on behalf of the students. Here we conclude that we will build 3,000 student homes a year and introduce 12 months of study support for those who have children or children in their study period. This is a concrete and good policy, and it is also a good social democratic policy, because it is not the size of the parents' wallet or the family situation that will determine the choice of higher education. We know that more and more people will be looking for just higher education in the years to come. We need to see the need for skills in business and in the public sector in the context of regional development, but also with student welfare. Good learning depends on a safe life situation. Therefore, it is important to work widely and well with student economy and funding. I'll finish where I started -- with the pandemic. These have been challenging times for both students and institutions. And even though Vazelina sings that "the beast of life is free," we know that the challenges we are facing in the UH sector now also need crisis packages.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1424	It's interesting to hear the debate here today. It may seem that the Right believes that if you are to bet on a good education offer across the country, it will be at the expense of quality, and education will be poorer. I wonder how you can mean it. Is it so that the Right believes that the teachers who teach in small schools are worse than the teachers who teach in large schools? You ask me, rather, smaller classes have to create room to see the students and to follow up each one. I note that the representative of Jønnes believes that education policy should not be used as a district policy instrument, but the reality is that this goes hand in hand. For many schools and educational services, the decline is due to a tight community economy, not to improve the daily lives of young people. We in the Workers' Party and the Centre have confidence that the municipalities are making good decisions, but we want to ensure the economic drive for it. This is why we are strengthening the local economy and introducing a primary school grant, which can be used where you see it is necessary – whether it is manning, teaching or something else. In fact, education policy is the most important means we have to balance social differences and achieve the government's goal of using the whole country. Education institutions are the hubs of many communities throughout Norway, but it is also here that we have the opportunity to give all children and young people the tools they need to move on in life. These tools must be available regardless of whether you live in Alta, Leka, Medal or Grünerløkka. As our research and higher education minister tends to say, the fine thing about knowledge is that it only becomes more of it if we share. After eight years of centralization, it's time we shared that knowledge with the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1433	In these days, students come all over the country ‘home’ to count Christmas’. Then I think it's in my place to talk a little bit about decentralised education. It's about creating good and lifelong learning courses where people live across the country. Two good local examples of this can be found on Tynset and in Kongswinger in my home country, Inland. They provide high-quality training courses and relevant training to residents throughout the country. I am pleased that the government of the Hurdal platform is clear that such local and decentralised educational institutions are something the government wants to invest in in the future. It's like my colleague Lise Selnes said, that such institutions can become an engine to train enough people that we need for the future. If we are to be able to meet the skills needs in AS Norway, we need to train more skilled workers. The challenges lie ahead, just as professionals are waiting for a place to learn. Did the President know that every year there are 7 000 professional students without a place to study? I will quote the Minister of Knowledge: ‘It is a problem for the individual student, but also a social problem, that many students start vocational training which they cannot actually complete due to lack of apprenticeships.’ 370 million. In order to establish an apprenticeship guarantee and to qualify professional trainees for a place of study, the grant to county councils is a proper contribution to this year's government budget. It's important for society, but most important for every student. Good education lasts a lifetime, and it wants the Workers' Party-Center Party government to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1447	What is so beautiful about the Norwegian kindergarten tradition is that children’s play and learning have always been in the driver’s seat through guidance in common with competent employees. I now drew myself to answer some of the claims that the representative Jøns from the Right made in his post. Because I think it is quite revealing that, on the one hand, the representative Jøns wants more diversity in the kindergarten sector and emphasises it as something positive, while, on the other hand, in the same speech, she spent time defending the commercial groups – the chains – in the sector. We know that if development continues as it is now, half of the private kindergartens will be owned by only five large groups by 2029. It's not diversity, it's on the contrary a narrower kindergarten sector with less diversity than what was the starting point. The representative of Jønes stresses that this is about entrepreneurs. There are a lot of good people who have started up, for example. parental kindergartens – started up ideal offers that we are very happy for, and that we are going to defend against this great commercial unification. But talking about entrepreneurs in a sector where you receive subsidies from the state to carry out a statutory task, I know that there are also quite a number of people in the kindergarten sector who are responding to it. Because there's something about being a founder, doing things at your own risk. You don't do that in kindergarten, you do something on behalf of the community. In this case, SV believes that each crown that is awarded to the kindergartens’ offerings should go to that particular thing and not to private enrichment. The representative of Jønnes ended by thanking the employees. I also want to join that thank you. But I do believe that the best thanks we can give to the employees in the kindergarten sector right now are several colleagues. Employees in the nursery sector have spent many years — under the right-hand government — on better financing of recruitment standards, and on grants to ensure that there are enough safe adults and sufficient staff with the right skills in their nursery. They did not get that from the previous government, and there is something SV prioritises to work for in our key role at Stortinget. For employees with the right skills, the most important thing we can do is to improve the provision of childcare facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1460	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. It is wonderful to note that the climate of debate is not as hard as it was in the Labour and Social Committee, but it may be worth drawing some lines from history. A good school is our main tool to preserve a society of small differences where we balance social differences and provide equal opportunities for everyone. But there is a strong link between good basic skills, the experience of well-being and mastering in school and good relations between teachers and fellow students. With the Right in government, 5,000 more students have completed high school every year. Several students who struggle with reading and billing have received extra help. Absence in high school has been reduced by 27 pst, and we have got 4,500 more qualified teachers into Norwegian classrooms. Furthermore, 50,000 teachers have been offered continuing training. The right has clearly prioritised knowledge in school and what is most important for students’ learning and well-being. Today, a new course is promised. The big government policy, on the other hand, is unclear and lacks a clear direction, and it concerns me on behalf of the students. For policy, priority is to be given. The large amount of money is not targeted, and more spent on leisure rather than on content and quality in the school. We see a systematic down-priority where a cutter in the teacher-specialist system, the extra hour of natural science is removed, and the means to cover the lost learning of the students as a result of the pandemic are cut. In preference to targeted measures for those who need it the most, SV, together with the government, chooses to lubricate thinly to all. There's still too many students who leave school without being able to read, write and calculate properly, and one in five students drop out of school. The right will continue to spend the large amount of money on investing in more teachers, basic skills, early efforts and more adapted education for those who are struggling. The road there may be a more practical and varied school day, but the goal must be what they learn, not how they learn it. Basic reading, writing and billing are not part of the school's broad societal mission, and it is crucial for a society of small differences where everyone experiences having the same opportunities. It is the teacher's personal characteristics and competence that make up the difference for each student, and then we must give priority to the most important thing. It is a clear course for the benefit of the students. The history of the last eight years can't take us away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1477	It was not meant to prolong the debate, but I need to comment on the article from SV. Many of the kindergartens around the country are just entrepreneurs. These are fires that have started kindergartens. I would recommend my colleague from SV to visit the Sunbakken Kindergarten in Trondheim or Kleinfolk Kindergarten in Etne. There are two ladies who have started these kindergartens, and they can tell you that they responded to the call from the public when people 15-20 years ago were asked to join in starting kindergartens. Governments replied in reply that the reason for doing this is that private kindergartens receive more in retirement pensions than they are entitled to. Well, if you look at the numbers from PBL, you can see that private kindergartens get about. 89 pst. of what municipal kindergartens get today. Private kindergartens already get significantly less than municipal kindergartens. 60 pst. of the private kindergartens are self-propelled kindergartens, often run by someone who runs only one kindergarten, and who sees it as both a passion and an entrepreneur. Half of these kindergartens are in deficit or have no profit to point to. When they get cut, I fear the consequence is that many private kindergartens have no choice but to shut down their operations. It's sad when we know that it's these kindergartens that have been involved in providing full babysitting, and that they've also been able to do something that some municipal kindergartens unfortunately haven't been able to do, namely have a low level of sick leave. The private kindergartens are involved in providing full childcare. They also contribute to the improvement of municipal kindergartens. It would be very sad if you now add to the big cut that makes the most successful welfare reform in Norway in 20 years risk ending up as a failure to reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1486	The representative Lise Waagen has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1491	At the bottom of the debate, the heir's beautification increased after the right-wing government. It can't be undisputed. Right-hand leave a school where there is an alarming need for more qualified teachers, thousands of students in each coal still do not attend secondary school, and half of the hours of special education are carried out by unqualified. Let there be no doubt: the Workers' Party-Center Party government prioritises knowledge and well-being in school. For us, there's no distinction between having a good time and doing well. On the contrary, we know that this goes hand in hand. We take the teacher's lack seriously. We're removing the pointless separation. In the government platform, we propose strong measures to get more teachers back to school. We're going to train more, and we're going to give more money to the municipalities. The sum of these is a new course in education policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1501	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1506	The systematic mix-up and confusion of the debate expressed by the representative Gulati in his speech is very typical of how the right side discusses the kindergarten sector. There is a consistent mix of private commercial kindergartens and private ideal kindergartens, as they do in other areas of well-being. The independent, parental or other ideal kindergartens that responded to the call and correctly helped to achieve full child-care coverage are a dying breed, because the large groups buy up and take over more and more. What we see is that if we keep going like this, they're going to be pretty much gone. That's why it's the settlement we now need to include commercialisation in this sector, absolutely necessary, just to defend diversity, so that we don't have just groups left that pick up hundreds of millions from the children's offerings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1511	I'm going to give the representative Supreme Court justice in one thing, and that's that there's a different kindergarten sector today than 20 years ago. There is also a background for our government to start an important effort to adapt the regulation of private kindergartens to today's reality. One of the measures is that we have put in place a national supervisory system, including: justified by the fact that there are groups of children's gardens located in a very large number of municipalities. But there is a difference between adapting the legislation to the current situation and helping to create the unrest that SV is now doing in many kindergartens, because government parties have been given the right to phase out what is called commercial kindergartens. It creates unforeseeable and insecurity for many thousands of children. There should be transparency and transparency, and there should be an adapted regulatory framework, but there is a difference between that and the deliberate desire to phase out private kindergartens. Finally, the Workers' Party's summary of the debate: if the Workers' Party agrees with the previous government that we should get more people to complete the school, it is not the answer to downgrade knowledge. The new government’s first step in education policy has been to lower the requirements to enter the teacher’s study, to water down the school’s skills requirements and to raise doubts about the absence limit. That's not the answer to the challenge we have, that's to get even more people to complete. I think that at the end of this debate we can enjoy what is going in the right direction, namely that more people are completing, that more people are opting for a profession, and that absence has fallen. I also think we can agree that there are still some challenges in the education system. They give us plenty of time to debate in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1520	The representative Hege Bae Nyholt has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1525	I was going to sit still, so that we could soon go and eat some lunch, but I need to say that it's not that you call it commercial -- it's commercial. You take profit, you take profit, you sell Norwegian nursery buildings to Swedish companies. Soon, ten pst. of all Norwegian children go in Swedish orphanage building. I have no faith that these are primarily concerned with the importance of the game, etc. in the day-to-day life of kindergarten, but they have commercial interests in buying, owning and selling Norwegian nursery buildings. What is disturbing in the kindergarten sector is that money allocated to Norwegian welfare and to kindergartens disappears into the pockets of individuals or out of the country. With that, I would like to thank you for the debate and wish you a good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1532	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1537	For everyone who comes along, it may be worth mentioning that we have to thank the Right for taking part in the debate in the interview here and responding to some of the things that we are in position, as a clear alternative to the previous government, are very concerned about lifting. But in the case of kindergartens, some of what the Center Party is saying is that we have to get out of the trenches. We must stop caricing the political solutions and contribute to an unhealthy debate. I am sorry to say that the representative Sanner, from the Right, contributes when he caricates and says that we should phase out the private kindergartens. It is a request decision to determine the form of ownership. It has been done before, and it will certainly be done again, both in Norway and internationally. So there's no reason to say that you should phase out private kindergartens for that reason. The right also did not contribute to a great deal of peace in the kindergarten sector when they crashed. Finally, I would like to say: ‘wheel Christmas angel valleys in hiding behind christmas [[...]] I wish everyone a really good Christmas and a good new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1553	Like the previous speeches, I was also awakened a little bit by the fact that there was a little pulse in a debate that didn't have a lot of life in it at the end, but that was good it came. The rhetoric that the representative Sanner, from the Right, has joined in, is that we don't bet on knowledge. That's a pretty ignorant statement. When you're 2 billion. more to the municipalities, which can then invest in several employees, quality, continuing training and raising the knowledge available at school, it is to bet on knowledge. When attacked to make changes to the intake requirements, it is also unknowingly lacking. With our model, based on the recording last year, we had 335 more teachers this year. To have trained 335 more teachers than the Sanners government was able to do last year is to bet on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1562	The representative of Himanshu Gulati has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1567	I would like to thank everyone for a good debate – it is just fun that there will be a little temperature at the end – and wish everyone good Christmas, when you have come so far. I notice the concern of the representatives from SV and Red that there will be more kindergartens that are part of so-called private kindergarten chains. I fear that is exactly what you get with the policy you have now where you cut the support. In other words, all the individual and stand-alone kindergartens — also some driven by parents — will not be able to continue with reduced income. And because they don't have anyone else to rest on, they have no choice but either to lay down the nursery or sell it to chains that have more kindergartens to rest on. So I think the cuts you add up to will lead to exactly what you want to fight, and it's sad for the Norwegian kindergarten sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1574	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 5 and 6. Case No. 7-10 is processed as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1630	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the party and six lines with replies from members of the government will be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1637	Few things are so fundamental to a society like communication. And if we look away from the communication we have face-to-face in close relationships, almost all other communication between people -- in today's society -- depends on what we're discussing here today, the infrastructure that facilitates him. Either you live on the islands of Helgeland, on Finnmarksvidda, in Fredrikstad, in Drammen or in Åsane, you depend on maritime transport that works, road that is open and safe, trains and flights that go when they go, and good speed on the Internet connection. That is why the budget we are handling here today is so important. I feel that a joint committee shares ambitions about a well-functioning, safe and efficient way of dealing in our country. Both good infrastructure and good collective provision are central to the building and urban operation. However, in some areas it is that we point to different directions towards the target. I'm assuming that the various parties in their posts here get their own budget settings, also in the other matters we're going to discuss here in the Chamber today. The country has been given a new political plurality and a new political course. It is a central goal of the new government to smooth out differences, socially and geographically. When the Workers' Party and the Centre have said that they want a policy for the whole country, it stands out for all areas of society, including the important area of transport and communication. I want to raise some important areas of investment for the new plurality that the addition to the government budget and the settlement with SV contains. In the state budget, which will be the basis of the coming year, there is a significant investment in Norway as a whole. A clear example is the changes for those who depend on going to work or school. The commuting system is a case in point. Reduced ferry charges are a different one. Prices will be reduced by 30 pst. relative to the price at the beginning of 2021, and the government is doing the work to make the smallest connections free of charge. We make it easier for people, and we strengthen the competitiveness of business along our entire coast. For many along our coast, the ferry is the road when there's no way there because there's a fjord or a piece of sea between. Another point is broadband. Access to high-speed networks is more important than ever — to receive information, to communicate with the public, to drive nutrition and value creation and to experience culture. It is quick to forget that many in our country – both in the city and in the countryside – still lack the necessary digital infrastructure. Through the budget, we have started the escalation in this area. Compared to much of the other investment, this is cheap investment, and it still triggers great value and can actually reduce transport needs, giving social savings in other areas. A third example is the increase in racial protection. In my article in the financial debate, I shared the impression of the election campaign about parents who had to sit at the breakfast table on a few days in the winter months and discuss whether they would send their students on the school bus past the racial areas. The idea that there is a real danger in some towns that almost all parents can miss their schoolchildren in one event – if the school bus is on the road when the race goes – is almost impossible to take inwards. The rush is to make sure that our roads are the most rascaled, and that's not as much. Increased permissions and the plan announced by the government are important steps in the right direction. Finally, let me just thank my colleagues in the committee for their good work on the vote. There has been a lot of good work done in a short time, and I think everyone has shown both the necessary self-responsiveness and the generosity towards colleagues who were going to get the vote ready. We have also jointly supported a capable and honest committee secretary who, this year – and I also know for many previous years – has done a great deal of work to ensure that the committee comes to an end to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1659	With Right in Government, we've been busy moving the decisions near where people live. A good example of this is, for example: the fishing ports in which the counties were to have the possibility to operate and organise the fishing ports. We saw this as a task that they could do. But in the Hurdal platform, one has gone a step back. It is now said that once again one wants to centralize power and let the Coastal Agency regain authority over the fishing ports. This is the County Spokesman in the West. I ask the representative to answer whether it might be wise to evaluate before taking such a drastic action against a scheme that for municipalities along the west coast now finally seems to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1664	The situation is not quite as rosary as the representative describes him, because the fact is that a number of states have protested against getting that responsibility. They have not wanted the responsibility, for example. until it has not followed up with sufficient resources. So I think the first thing we have to do is take over the signals that come from the states in this area. It has been done on the Hurdal platform, where one has said that this should be a state responsibility, and one should avoid the limbo situation that many of these ports are today, where neither a state can follow them up, nor a state that takes responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1669	Thanks for the answer. I understand from both the answer and the Hurdal platform that this transfer works well for someone, but not for everyone, and that the county north of More and Romsdal have not quite come to terms with these negotiations. That means, among other things. that Værøy, who has local capital ready to advance, is not able to do so, while Langevåg, who is now a part of that which the county council has, has been given access to it, and they are very pleased with it there. So why is it important for the Central Party now to move this power from the county municipalities to the state, when one gets to smoother processes and is closer to the processes when the county municipalities are responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1674	The important thing is to get a lift for these ports. What has happened now is that many of these ports have a large maintenance run, and they live in uncertainty because the county that was to take responsibility says they are unable to do so, and the state answers that one has transferred this responsibility to the county. It's a main problem issue. So there might be some exceptions, but that's the main problem for a number of ports in this country. That is why we have a great responsibility in this Chamber to give priority to this area, because it is important. The agreement with SV as the government party did also raised the permissions to ports, in order for one to strengthen that area. Then there is a greater need, and there are many communities that are waiting for answers in this area, on investment funds to just say port.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1679	I'm going to ask a question that hopefully is easy for the representative to answer. The budgetary agreement between the SV and the Government Parties states: ‘The government is asking for a return to the 2023 government budget with an assessment of the NTP road portfolio in order to ensure effective implementation and follow-up of the climate objectives. The review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field motorways.’; What does this mean? Is it going to be more or is it going to be less?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1689	It means that it's getting smarter, because there's a desperate fact in this country that very much means go to the very big projects. Some places are right, but I also think we need to have a debate in our kingdom if it's always right to build the broadest possible road, or if we can get a bigger profit by looking at the normals, see if one can go from four fields to two fields plus one where it's appropriate. We think it's wise just to raise this debate and get a discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1694	We have had a formidable growth in public transport in Norway in the last 10–15 years. But now it is the county public transport that is in deep crisis, primarily because of the pandemic. It is good that the compensation scheme continues, because this must be followed closely until next year. At the same time, we have a situation in which, as stated by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, we also need to look at the effects of changes in work travel when it comes to supporting public transport. Then I'm worried. The government has also contributed, among others. benefits for commuters in their budget. Is it now for the government parties that the zero growth target is to be the leading factor in public transport efforts in the major cities, or is it not to be considered as equally important in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1700	It's in the setting, and it has at least the government parts, and more, joined, so that's the target. But we have to assume that society is changing. The interesting thing about this discussion is what Norway looks like after the Korona. We notice to ourselves, probably the representative of Elvesuen, that we are changing our habits. Maybe it won't be so important for everyone to be at work until the exact same time. Maybe the working day looks different. For some people it might not be so important to be at work physically at all. It can also create another demand image in public transport. But getting it right on that plank is demanding, and that's exactly why it's formulated as it is. This is something we have to follow carefully, and we have to look at what will be the right dimensioning of collective provision in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1705	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1710	The size is best when we see how a subject area such as transport and communication relates to the whole of how we are to govern the country and that it is a practical thread from field to field. And that's what's so happy about the attitude of the new majority – the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the UK – here today, that we have many good examples of how we're now going to spend the big money to achieve our overall social goals. Let me take three important examples of the theme. First of all, good work for everyone is one of the most important things we can do at Stortinget, and here we will now run an offensive taxi policy that allows one to live off being taxi driver, and that one does not end up like one I put on this summer, which was uncertain whether he could serve the mortgage on the dwelling where he lives with the family, because there have been so few trips, and it is also more uncertain what the future will be like, with the release that has been. Therefore, we promise: from now on, there should be a policy for taxis throughout the country, 24 hours a day, and of course, this is a worker who should also be able to have a safe and healthy family life. Second, of course, the policy we have for infrastructure is also crucial if we are to achieve our major climate objectives. We have a lot of good infrastructure in Norway, but of course it also needs to be maintained – and it is at least as important if we are to have a well-functioning transport system where emissions are going down, and people and goods come out, which is only to think about large-scale performance projects. That's why the NHO, the LO and the NAF had a very well coordinated and important input into the budget hearing. NAF said, now is the usual road trip, and they point especially to the need to maintain the county roads in our country. That is why today's debate must also be seen in the light of the strengthened state economy, which has already been adopted in this Chamber with the budget of the Ministry of Local Affairs. I'd like to quote Reodor Felgen, who comes from my neighborhood. He says it very wisely, when he's going to start rusting up Il Tempo Gigante: It's not useful to build a car when it owns a needle in the wall. Of course, so are the county councils. It is not useful to rust up county roads if you do not own the needle in the wall. If they were to do it without getting any funds, that in practice means that they had to put down a lot of schools where our young people are going, or that the kids have to walk around with holes in their teeth because they can't go to the county council. Of course, we're going to have well-functioning road networks, youth education and dental care for our kids. That's why our counties need to be strengthened. Three, of course, a good infrastructure policy must also build up in line with industry's need for connectivity and local and regional business. We have a good example, which is common to the whole committee, of, for example: The excellent industrial area in Sørli must also be connected to the railways so that we can build the green industry of the future. Or broadband, as committee leader Sande was in: there we have to make sure that all businesses and all households have access to high-speed Internet by 2025. Otherwise, there will be a big gap between what is said in the debate, for example. from the previous government in the message ‘Whenever the customer has a network’. I would add as a signature: ‘When the customer always has a network, but has no broadband’. It must be a basic infrastructure in place for people’s everyday lives to go around. In summary, we are very pleased that we have got this great start on a new course, the Workers' Party and the Center's party together with SV. I am particularly pleased when I see that taxi drivers in my own home area say that they now feel that they are looking at Storting’s policy – because these are the everyday heroes we are here to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1732	Norway has great opportunities to participate in technology development and transport research to reduce climate change emissions. Norwegian research offers significant opportunities for industrial development and value creation, increased exports and new jobs — a real cheek egg, that is. There is a great deal of interest in developing the transport environment research centre in Norway. The Solberg Government proposed a significant amount in its budget for research into sustainable transport solutions. The scheme is called Pilot-T. The amount could include: have been used to establish an innovation centre for zero-emission aviation. This could be a strong commitment to emission-free solutions for aviation, as provided by NTP. In its budget, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have cut the appropriations for research on sustainable transport by 25 million. kr, an amount that will stop or delay the necessary research activity. In the right, this cut would weaken our ability to achieve the objectives of a transport system with better accessibility and safety and reduced emissions. My question to the Labour Party representative is: What are his thoughts about this cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1743	Thank you for a good challenge. I would first like to say that this year's budget really increases the investment in research by a couple of million dollars. It could have been even more, and that's what I'm going to do in the future, because it's very important that we do more research in this field. We know, through the expert committee that worked well under the previous government, that there are many solutions that we can contribute together to the next few years, so that we get more out of the money in the transport sector. We're gonna back up research together. It's a slight increase this year. Hopefully we can come back next year together and adopt an even greater increase than the one in the year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1750	On 27 October this year, Sandtrøen says the following about the railway reform at Political Quarter at NRK: The state has concluded expensive and long and poor agreements. He also says that there is a waste of taxpayers' money. In a letter dated 3 November from the Council of State to the representative of Terje Halleland, the Council of State corresponds to this. The Council of State, which is from the same party as the Sandtrøen representative, writes that the state saves about 12.4 billion. kr in the period, up to now approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, Bt, My question is: Does Sandtroe believe that saving 12.5 billion is a waste of money. kr and better offer with 250 more departures per week?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1759	It's kind of thinking about a number, the twelve billion. This is a hypothetical estimate over the next few years. There's no one who knows how it's going to end. What we know for sure is that about half of that money is just an estimate based on what you assume the volume of traffic is going to be. We already know that there is a long way between what was in the tenders and what is real. In addition, it has cost an incredible amount to carry out this fragmentation and privatisation. For example, those who wash trains, who do important work, have been granted uncertain pension entitlements. So there's a lot in the computation that's hypothetical. What we know is that, for example. my relatives who live in Telemark, who previously could take the train from Bø to Tynset on one mini-price ticket, now have to deal with three different companies and pay about three times as much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1768	Finally, the Minister for Transport can immediately ask those companies to sit down to coordinate the ticket system. That's what the government itself says there's nothing wrong with doing. For the Sandtrøen to say that it is «think of a number»: the council says in a letter, and we must assume that it is correct, that despite the pandemic it has already been saved approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Well, that's going to have to be a larger number than 280 million. kr – as Sandtrøen referred to in the same interview – which was used on a logo. Mr. Sandtrøen agrees with Mr. 1.1 billion. kr is more than 280 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1777	Yes, the representative fully agrees. But the question here is whether those billions really exist when we see how the bill is finally settled. We've also had, for example. road traffic researchers from Sweden who have expressed themselves in the evening post and who have seen that much of the logic of the tenders is that more of the companies commit a so-called growth in traffic than the reality becomes. This is certainly the case now in Norway, too, when we have unfortunately had to go in with crisis packages to the same companies that would probably be involved in not wasting money. The best thing is to keep order in your own house. The best thing is to make sure that we have more mini-price tickets in a continuous system, and that we can do as I did when I was on vacation with a good friend, and traveled from Oslo to Bodø for NOK 299. Unfortunately, fewer people can do today, but the progressive railway policy of the future can make the system that we own together become a whole again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1786	International cooperation is important, and the fourth railway package and this Document 8 is also part of this discussion. The working party has gone against the fourth railway package. Now it's adopted. It is also authorised in the EU. I understand that the resistance is primarily due to the use of tenders. But in the case of the rest of the fourth railway package, i.e. to have equal rules across borders and easy to have materials that can be approved in different countries – all the pieces that allow for better rail services in Europe and also in Norway towards the EU – does the representative agree that this is an advantage?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1794	As I said in the previous answer, it is to the most extent an advantage of a railway that is connected. But I think the Elvesu himself can sign on for example. When he was younger -- it's possible he was on Interrail -- it was actually easier to travel continuously across Europe than it is today, even though we had an NSB at the time. After all, it is not necessary to privatise and dismantle the railways in Norway for a thousand pieces in order to achieve this objective. To the more basic question, the most important thing for us is that the railway is connected. That is why we are very pleased that the new Minister of Transport, Nygård, has now taken the opportunity to say that we are going to have public ownership and control of our railway operations here in the East, where, after all, there are a lot of travelers and railway enthusiasts who are now really happy that this is the Community infrastructure. It is the task of the community to make sure that you and I get us safely to work and on vacation with the family. We are proud to be able to rule together democratically.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1801	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1806	To sum up the budgetary process for the autumn of 2021, we can make it short and concise and say that a good budget has become a little bit worse. Government Parties have weakened the implementation of NTP by 107 million. Compared with the budget presented by the government of Solberg in October, it is, after all, set by 81.4 billion. kr to implement projects from the national transport plan. The allocation to NTP exceeds 90 pst. So we're proposing to spend 81.4 billion on the budget. kr. 33.5 B.C.E. kr is going to go, an increase of 675 million. kr before the government started its – I would say – a little less cut, but it was now at least a cut. To the highways, it's set at 19.8 billion. kr, including New Roads. The company has also been responsible for the joint project E16 Skaret-Høgcastet. The previous government proposed – and I expect the new one to follow it up – to start three new projects, all of which have a cost framework of over 1 billion. kr: E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen, E136 Breivika-Lerstad near Ålesund and E8 Sørbotn-Laukslett, the access road to Tromsø. It is also foreseen that with these new projects, the maintenance set run will decrease by 350 million. kr. It's proposed 31.8 billion. kr for railway purposes. That's about the same thing as in the aged budget 2021. That would be investment of 19.4 billion. kr for railway operation, including new signalling system, ERMTS, and further planning and initial preparatory work on the Ringeriksbanen and E16 joint project. Large amounts of money have been allocated to the rational development of intercity sections of Eastfold Railway, Westfold Railway and Dovrebanen. It is planned to set up 13 new trainsets in the East to replace older trains. Transport measures in urban areas are also a major priority. 6 B.C.E. kr is set off, of them 2,2 brd. kr for large collective projects, and SEK 3.8 billion. SEK is set aside for reward agreements and urban growth agreements. For the coast it is proposed 3.4 billion. kr, an increase of more than 700 million. kr – that is, it was before the government decided to postpone work on the City Tunnel. There is money set aside for projects such as the entrance of Kragerø and preparatory work with the port of Borg. At all, a number of good measures have been proposed, including for aviation, such as moving Bodø airport. It's set at 200 million. kr to it for the next year, and 50 million. kr for further work on new airport at Mo in Rana. There has been a lot of positive progress in the field of transport. The money is in place to carry out most of what the Stortingen provided for the treatment of NTP. But there's still some question mark. There are warnings of reversals or investigations of important reforms that have led to the skin trap being extended. Today, we are also discussing Document 8:13 for 2021-2022, from Red, where they ask the government to take the initiative to repeal the decision to include the acts in the railway package IV. This proposal is, in fact, only supported by SV. The parties to the Government will attach the proposal to the Minutes and the Right and the Progress Party will request that the proposal be rejected. For our part, this is easy. We believe, in line with the Supreme Court decision, that railway package IV entails a limited transfer of powers to the EU, and that Norwegian railway policy continues to be and can be governed by the Norwegian authorities and this house. I'm recording that it's also the government's line. We disagree with the government that one should close the tendering process in the East and believe that the steps taken on the Sørlandsbanen, Dovrebanen and Bergensbanen have shown that it is both smart and profitable to put the sections on the market. In total, taxpayers have saved 12 billion. kr for these tenders. Although Nils Kristen Sandtrøen sowed doubts about the department's and the council's own figures, at least we related ourselves to the government's answer to these questions. Once we're on the Bergensbanen, we're in the Right happy that the government has stood behind the proposition to grant 1 billion. kr in operating credits to New Roads, so that work on the Ringeriksbahn can continue, and that one can do the first physical work in 2022. We're in the middle of a pandemic, and that makes us have to think about new travel patterns. We're already seeing changes, and it's important to follow this forward. I am pleased that the crisis measures have been continued. Otherwise, in the period that comes, hopefully we will talk not only about pandemics, but also about the green shift and about the technology development in transport, which is huge. That gives us a good basis for many exciting debates in the years to come. I address all the proposals where the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1836	The representative of Trond Helleland has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1843	I want to discuss public-private cooperation, OPS. The right is very much for OPS. In 2014, the Right said: For us, it is most important that the project is built faster. Privates can plan faster, and price increases are also expensive. For the Sotra connection, they promised to start construction in 2017, and it was due to be completed in 2022. The cost was then calculated for 4 billion kroner. kr. Sotra Link has now won the contract, and it's $23.1 billion. kr. So for 25 years, we're going to have to pay 1 billion. kr to an investment bank in Australia, South Korea and Italy. What's the benefit of OPS, as the one on the right sees it today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1850	There has been an OPS route between Klett and Hurricane for many years in the Camper’s own area, Trøndelag. There the contractor is in charge of maintenance. The state pays an annual contribution, and that's a good way to finance it. We have taken a lot of this model further and have further processed it, among other things. with the development of New Roads. In the case of the Sotra connection in concrete terms, there is a project that has had large overruns regardless of the form of organisation. The fact that you pay this money back to the people you have borrowed the money from must be reasonable also in Arbeiderparti-steerten Norway. It is such that if you collect private capital for a road project, you will have to pay that money back. Then it's quite secondary to who gets the money. The important thing is that the drivers get a good path to drive on, and they do it whether it is OPS or whether it is under the direction of New Weegen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1857	I also thought that the Right was to get the most out of the money. On the E39 in Trøndelag, which is one of the few projects in which we have knowledge of OPS, it has cost approximately. the double of what it would have done if the state had financed it. Tunnel safety regulations have not been complied with and there is some disagreement about how this should be financed. One pays for it for years to come. One gets worried when one hears that there are countries like Australia, South Korea and Italy that are going to borrow the state of Norway money. It doesn't sound very well-solid. Would it not have been much easier if the state had financed the project itself, and if the value creation had become again in Norway and become Norwegian entrepreneurs in part?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1864	I don't want to contribute to a diplomatic scandal by denying Australia, Italy and South Korea's ability to finance. I think it's quite solid economies that are behind the banks in those countries as well. We know that. I would have been more concerned if there were other countries that funded, for example. those who are currently trying to finance large-scale projects in large parts of the world. So I'm a little worried about that. But what I'm concerned about is that the money should extend to, and that one should build a smart road. It was the representative Sande, the chairman of the committee, who defined the concept of ‘smart road’: to reduce the motorway projects within the national transport plan. It's a little scary development if that's what the new government is going to add to the term "smart road": if we go from four to two lanes, it's smart. I don't think road safety authorities and others think it's particularly smart, and I don't think the drivers, who have to wait in line, think it's smart.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1871	It was tempting to take a line on the line, but I won't. In my childhood, there was a group of people who were called a bandwagons. A bit typical of the bandits was that they were very busy in value creation and activity along our coast. Now, unfortunately, there aren't so many of them left, but the few that are left, if one meets them, are often in line with the Center Party when it comes to investing in infrastructure along the coast, and they're occupied by ferry. In this budget, the majority of holiday prices are reduced by 30 pst. in relation to last year, as I said in my main post, while the government like Greece was part of, wanted to increase the ferry prices in the comparison made this summer. The question is: Does the representative of Greece and Right not see that reduced ferry prices mean a lot to people and businesses along our coast, and why is it so difficult for Right to support that reduction in ferry prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1878	It's important to use the money smartly in transportation, and we're not against reducing ferry prices. But we think it might be a little strange that those who don't have a ferry, but who have a speedboat, get no reduction. I thought they had as much need to come out as those who have to take the ferry have. The bow right lives in the best of luck. Even I have both hard-danger and downholstery, so I think I'm covering the concept well. I've even had a new Norse as my main goal, so I don't think we're going to be afraid that the bow right is going out. On the contrary, we are a party, a conservative party of people, who are concerned that the money should extend to, that we should build rationally, but that one has to invest in value creation. Then we cannot scale down the road project that has already been adopted, as I now understand that the new government is adding up, in cooperation with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1885	Many wonder why the requirement for a quadruple motorway strikes as low as 12 000 ÅDT in Norway, while two- and three-field roads are used for traffic volumes up to 14 000 ÅDT in Finland, 20 000 ÅDT in Sweden and 25 000 ÅDT in Germany. Two and three-field roads are generally more socio-economically profitable than narrow four-field motorways. The investment costs are smaller, so you get a lot more money. The right is known as a party engaged in economic efficiency, and then it becomes almost incomprehensible to me why the representative of the Hellenic Government chose to expand four-field highways to the extent that we have witnessed. Shouldn't the billions have been used for a national road network with a yellow middle stripe, to take back the enormous lag in maintenance and to secure roads to race?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1891	We're not opposed to having a sensible approach to which OWN is going to burden the different roads. That is why one of my fights when I sat in the transport committee last time was to build the narrow four-field highway. It meant that the Vegvesen was completely impossible, but then one had shown that it was possible to do it from Klöfta to Kongsvinger. It's a roadway that's both traffic-proof, that provides good mobility, and that's good for business. What I would recommend SV to do, in conversation with the government, is to make sure that we build roads that are adapted to the driving pattern that is, but that are traffic-proof, because we have a zero vision, and having a narrow four-field highway is much safer than having a two- or three-field road without a middle part. I hope we don't get back there that somehow cutting road safety to save money is smart.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1896	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1901	Today, we are going to deal with the transport budget, one of the most important areas, if not the most important area, in order to build society and the country further. If we succeed in establishing good infrastructure, we will succeed in good social development and can continue to create values and jobs. Over the last eight years, this area has been given priority, and with the Progress Party in the Department, we have strengthened the construction of infrastructure, and especially of roads, where appropriations have almost doubled since 2013. Now we've got a new government, and I'm probably not the only one who's excited about what kind of bet on transportation we're now going to see from a new government. Because when they get the opportunity to influence the sector and present their first budget, I record to my great surprise that they are cutting in the appropriations to exactly the way. It's not that big an amount, and it doesn't have to mean that much, but it can also be the first step towards a smaller priority of funding for road construction. It can have major consequences for our society. Because if we're to succeed in the transition that our country is facing, we're totally dependent on having a modern infrastructure. The Hurdal Platform states that one should assess how road development, operation and maintenance are to be organised, with the background that more and more builders and weighers are at risk of increased costs, more fragmented trade unions and less coherent development. I would say that this is not directly easy to understand. I'm asking the Council of State to be able to clarify what that point really means. The Progress Party has established an organisation that provides competition in road construction, which has served the country well; we have released large funds, which have once again provided for greater appropriations to build even more roads. Is it this organization that the government now wants to live? The creation of New Roads was made to build more roads faster, and for less money. Six years after its creation, many billions of saved costs and added value have been achieved. Just to rub it a little bit extra in, I'll quote Geir Pollestad: ‘This will put the road construction back ten years in time because here you will be back in the situation where there is no progress in the project that controls.’ The question then arises as to whether Pollestad is responsible for his statements and will take action to bring back ten lost years, or whether he will admit that he was shamefully wrong – again. The Road Traffic Information Council presented a new report showing that the road network in Norway is among the worst in Europe. So, with the exception of the last ten years, where differences have decreased, Norway is far behind. It is especially when it comes to the roads between the regions, between the largest cities, that the difference between the other countries is greatest. This means that our business is charged extra costs in relation to their competitors, who spend less money to get their goods out to the market. When one then reads the program to the Center Party, which takes care of fine words about prioritising the county road network, racial protection, compensation in ferry prices, ferry-relief projects, road safety, construction of bicycles and walking paths, there are many great measures that we can all put behind, but not a single word about the country's main road network, our tribal network between the regions, between the largest cities. Now we're going to go from just listening to the rhetoric of the Center Party to a policy to be implemented, so I hope that the representatives of the Center Party can explain what this means – and we heard earlier what smart roads will mean: saving money on building cheaper roads. Looking at my own region, I have no doubt which part of the road network is crucial in the future, and also the ability to see the relationship between the different transport industries. We build Rogfast, and it's good speed on Hordfast. These are projects that will provide a ferry-free connection between Stavanger and Bergen and lead to a halve of travel time. It will have an enormous impact on the whole of the West. When we also get a complete expansion of a winter safe E-134 between Haugesund and Drammen, it will be absolutely crucial. Now we have a government that cooperates with parties that don't want these projects. Now I don't think SV will be able to win through these projects, but can we trust that these projects will continue to be prioritised and funded with the aim of completing them? I am addressing the proposals of which the Progress Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1930	Then the representative Terje Halleland has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1937	In the fall, a whole busload of people came the long way from Ryfylke to demonstrate outside the Stortinget for a safe route to and from work and school past the Redsliane in Suldal. Then parents told me that in the worst days they no longer dared to send the students with the school bus in fear of new race. As the representative of Halleland knows, this is a stretch where there has been a regular race over many years. In the last eight years, the Progress Party has been either part of the government or a supporting party and has also had the Minister of Transport for several years. With the reviews of the revised budget, the Progress Party has had 16 opportunities to establish racial protection in the Red Sea. On so many occasions, where the Progress Party has also taken advantage of its priorities and has shifted considerable resources in the field of transport, why has the Progress Party not prioritised the safe way of working and schooling for people in Suldal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1944	It is quite right, as the representative Kalsås says, that there has been a project in Suldal that we are behind, and that I am very happy that one got in place now. Racism is something we have great challenges with all over the country. Many projects should be given priority and the Progress Party has been part of a government that has given priority to racial protection and a lot of funding. I registered that the Workers' Party had not managed to get funds for racial protection in Rødsliane when they provided their budget, and that they were totally dependent on SV. I, like the representative Kalsås, am pleased that SV was able to get through to that project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1951	I guess the answer was something like that. I'm glad we're three parties now that secure the majority of the project. Turning to another theme: A part of the taxi industry freeway of the Fremskritsparte government allows county councils to no longer oblige taxis to use cars equipped for wheelchair users or to determine the driving areas. In Stavanger Aftenblad we were able to read about 100 years old Martin, who did not get taxi for the wife's funeral on Finnøy. As the relatives stated in the article, access to taxis after the introduction of the taxi reform in the autumn of 2020 has been unpredictable. This is just one of many examples you have seen around the country that the taxi offer has been greatly reduced and very unpredictable. Based on these negative impacts for both passengers and drivers, will the Progress Party be in favour of a regulatory tightening in order to ensure safe jobs for drivers, a wage to live off and a good offer to passengers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1960	We've had a taxi business that hasn't worked. There has been a need to move in and abolish the regulations in the industry. Drying is an important part of our collective offer and an important part of making the various parts interconnect. If we're going to succeed in one piece, we're very dependent on getting the whole connection between public transport and passenger traffic, and that's where the taxis are important. It has not worked, so we needed a reform, and that is why the Progress Party was working towards reform. You can certainly find individual cases where this has not worked well, but I can promise the representative that I can find many examples that the old cab industry system did not work. That there are challenges, I'm not in doubt about – we're going to close them down eventually – but it's going to be totally wrong to tighten them up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1967	We now see that in recent years the taxi industry has been exposed to strong liberalisation in the form of strong competition. Offer of what previously gave viable provisions, something to live for, is now almost gone in many parts of our country. The change in professional transport laws now means that health professionals, with their supply of patient transport, are pushing the taxi industry. It has our free spins on most that were regulated in the industry before, and school runs are now gone. We also see that in a town like Steinkjer it will almost not be possible to rent taxis in the evening and night. In the Steinkjer-Avisa newspaper you can read that there will be much reduced supply. It is possible to get a taxi in daytime from 3rd to 6th Christmas day and New Year's Eve. Otherwise this offer will be greatly reduced. Is the representative of Halleland happy with that offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1974	As I said in my previous answer, this was an industry that had major challenges. We had to take action to maintain a good offer for the users of it. We saw that there were licensing arrangements that, through the county councils, did not necessarily go to those who drove the cars, the drivers. There were major challenges in getting a good offer and a price that made customers use the offer. There are certainly geographic areas, somewhere else, that are struggling with some detail. That's what I'm going to be the first one to be involved in working to try to clear away and get arrangements for. But for our part, we want the taxi industry to work – also for the customer, not only for the driver. This must be connected for the customer's part in order to get a good offer. That's what we're going to do to get to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1981	The party of progress likes to present itself as an adversarial opponent of tolls. For Vardø, the Progress Party would abolish tolls in 2013. But the fact that the Progress Party has had Minister of Transport for six years is that the number of toll stations in Norway has doubled since the entry of the Progress Party into the government of Solberg. Figures from the Ministry of Transport show that tolls for a total of 67,5 billion were collected. In the six years that the Progress Party had the Minister for Transport. Nevertheless, we could hear in the election campaign that the Per-Willy Amundsen Progress Party continued to say that the Progress Party was to eliminate the toll – a little credible play when you know the fasit. When it turns out to be so difficult, even when you had a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party, is it still a goal for the Progress Party to abolish tolls? How will the Progress Party finance its fancy four-field motorways in the future without tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1989	There is probably an similarity between the Progress Party and SV that we have a primary policy that we know in many areas can be difficult to implement. But the primary policy of the Progress Party is very clear: we want to get rid of tolls. That's a bad way to finance roads. The Progress Party will be involved in any negotiation, whether it be with the government or from the Stortinget. It is not that the Progress Party managed to remove the tolls, which we would have liked to have done. What we did was we were able to build an enormous number of roads, which this country has never seen the husband of. At the same time, we reduced the toll level from 42 pst. to 28 pst. In dollars, there was probably an increase, since we built so many projects, but in percent total, the load on each one was significantly less. It's a policy that the Progress Party is going to work for, and we're going to give priority to getting rid of the tolls in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e1996	Then the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2001	The size has a great responsibility to ensure good and environmentally friendly transport solutions. Good infrastructure is important for business, housing and people's daily lives. The transport sector accounts for about one third of all greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, which should be halved by 2030. In order to achieve this, we need a radical redistribution of the transport budget. In the SV's alternative state budget, we redeploy large sums from climate-friendly motorways to railways, public transport and pedestrian and cycle routes. SV rotates the car charges so that it pays to choose freely, and sets aside money for the construction of several charging stations. SV wants the railway to bind cities and parts of the country together to replace four-field motorways and aeroplanes. Therefore it must be cheaper and better to travel by train. We in this room must have ambitions to create an attractive and nationwide train service for passengers and freight. SV believes that it is urgent to extend several railway projects, such as the modernisation of Bergensbanen, the upgrading of Tinnosbanen and Ålgårdbahnen, the new railway tunnel in Oslo, the investigation of the North Norway railway and the upgrading of Ofotbanen and Kongsvingerbanen. Furthermore, we need to get ahead of the full development of intercity, with double tracks all the way to Lillehammer, Skien and Hamar. Our alternative budget for 2022 is set at 1 billion. kr more than the government of Solberg did, for railway planning and investment. SV believes it is high time to electrify the remaining routes in Norway. The government must start work on electrifying the Rørosbanen, Solørbanen, Raumabanen and Nordlandsbanen. We also feel that it is urgent to resume the maintenance run on the railway. Lack of maintenance creates major challenges and increased costs. The government needs to draw up a financing plan to resume the maintenance phase by 2030. Goods on the track are still losing relative to goods on the road. This is contrary to good climate and environmental policies and to the Stortinge objectives for freight transport. There is a need for more support for goods on the road, and there is a great potential for increasing freight transport by rail and sea, and we want a strategic commitment to this. It could also reduce the number of road accidents. Norwegian cities and towns need to be less car-based and more affordable and pleasant. Few people need the car for work, school and kindergarten. Then the effort on public transport, bicycles and corridors must be stepped up vigorously. SV is now concerned about public transport throughout the country. Routes are among the public companies that have notified that the aid will be cut if it does not arrive. It will have dramatic consequences, because we know that a good offer is essential for people to choose to travel by public transport. We need a larger crisis package for the country's collective societies, even at the closure we're currently in. The TT system should be stepped up to cover all counties. Those in need of organized transport are entitled to and dependent on a good system. All users shall have access to the same services wherever they live. However, even with a large-scale collective effort, many will still need cars, and it is essential that road transport is brought to renewable fuel as quickly as possible. In our alternative state budget, we propose to reverse the car charges in order to make it pay to choose a zero-emission option, and we propose to grant money to build several charging stations, especially in housing laws and joint ventures. And the biogas vehicle needs to get a discount on the bombing. Electricly driven ferries are on full-speed access to traffic in Norway, as are non-emission trucks and construction machinery. We will speed up the transition for the whole transport sector towards zero emissions, and county municipalities will have to be compensated for the increased costs of a transition to zero-emission ferries. I'll take up the suggestion from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2029	The representative of Mona Fagerås has drawn up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2036	We were probably several who were quite positively surprised by the impact SV had in the comparison with the government party that the State would take all the additional costs incurred by the county councils in the purchase of zero-emission speedboats and ferries. This means the purchase of boats, which means operation, which means infrastructure on land with electricity or hydrogen and other necessary measures. If we ask the industry, they are now ready for one to steal such speedboats and ferries. Nevertheless, the disappointment of the answer given by the Council of State to my written question – when I now call for a budget to show what this will mean, if the county councils now have a blank mandate to bribe, the Council of State has no answer. So, does the government have the confidence that the government will follow up such an ambitious decision, if one has not added a single penny to the budget for what the Solberg government has done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2041	As I was in my post, the transport sector accounts for about 30 pst. of the emissions. As we all know, these emissions need to be halved by 2030. We don't have much time. We have to have big ambitions. That's why I've enthusiastically agreed to be part of the Storting Transport Committee, because that's exactly where we have the biggest challenges. Then it's clear that it feels like a huge saying that we're getting an impact on just this, because we know that especially in Hordaland, the county council is facing a situation where they have to choose solutions that don't have zero emissions. We can't have it like that when we're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as much as we actually have to. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2046	First, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the SV for their contribution through the negotiations to a good government budget – thank you for that. At the same time, I want to challenge SV a little bit at a point where SV might have a slightly different course than most other parties, and that's the ambitions when it comes to railway investment. In the setting SV says, among other things. to build a high-speed train between the largest cities in Norway. It is, of course, very costly, but what I wanted to challenge is that there will also be a very large intervention in the natural environment. This will be one of the largest infrastructure projects the country has ever seen. Traditionally, SV is good at raising the significance that nature and food soil are not being built down. How does SV think about the impact such a project will have on the natural environment and food soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2053	Traveling by rail is much more space-efficient than travelling by car. It just has to be fixed once and for all. So we believe that the degradation of land in all areas must be carried out, but there is no doubt that road construction is causing the biggest problem. In addition, the railway is superior to other areas in terms of environmental benefits. I am very pleased that we were able together to lift the aid for goods on the railways in the budget negotiations. It was an important victory for us, because rail freight is undoubtedly the biggest and best way for us to achieve the targets we have to bring down the emissions by 50 pst. by 2030. Therefore it must be cheaper and better to travel by train – and also to have the goods on the rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2058	An agreement usually has at least two parties, so I only have one simple, straightforward question. When I read the budget agreement between the Swedish Government and the Swedish Government, it says: ‘The government is asking for a return to the 2023 government budget with an assessment of the NTP road portfolio in order to ensure effective implementation and follow-up of the climate objectives. The review shall also assess road standards, including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of four-field motorways’. What does this mean? Is it going to be more or is it going to be less?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2068	For us in SV, it is like this – and will always be like this – that it is much better to build far and safe than short and wide, as the previous government did with all its gigantic four-field highway projects. For us, we have a aftermath on the county roads, a big problem. I come from a part of the country where we're going to transport the fish to our traffic hub as soon as possible. If you're going to get it, you can't have rascal, road-hazardous county roads. The initiative the Progress Party has made on the road has only been on the national road. I'm terribly afraid of the traffic-hazardous, slippery county roads we have, which have been deprived for a long time by the Progress Party with its Ministers of Transport. This is a development that I want to warn against, and I hope that the new government is going to bet more. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2075	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2081	The debate so far sounds almost like a national tragedy if we do not use all our means of transport to build new four-field motorways in parallel with the roads that already exist, at the expense of cultural values, at the expense of natural values and very many other factors. I want to challenge the representative: what is SV's view of the socio-economic benefit of prioritising maintenance and upgrading of existing roads rather than building new four-field motorways in parallel with the roads we already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2088	I believe that I and the representative of the Green Party could have met many of the challenges he is giving to SV here. There is no doubt that rail bets will be important to achieve our common goal of 50 pst. cut, and that upgrading and securing today's road network will give exactly what SV wants, i.e. building far and safe rather than wide and expensive. So I don't think I and the representative of the Greens and the Greens are so very divided about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2093	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2098	For Red, safe roads are important, transport must be environmentally friendly, and we also want a better collective offer at fair prices across the country. That's why Red's collective effort in our alternative state budget is over three billion. kr. We cut the ticket price by 20 pst. around the country, in all public transport – trains, buses, trams and tracks. We are betting on environmentally friendly transport to the major cities through reward schemes and urban environmental agreements, and we are starting large new expansions, such as the T-Bahn link to Lørenskog and Aarhus and the collective axis to new hospital in Stavanger. We will also extend the arrangements to medium-sized and smaller urban areas. We know that transport by sea, by sea, is maintenance-free, but more use of the sea requires good ports. Moving goods from road to sea is an important environmental measure, and our ports are critical infrastructure in a country with a long coastline. That's why Red gives almost 300 million. extra to our ports, more for maintenance, construction of new port facilities, upgrading of fishing ports and maintenance of lighthouses. Red will also have back mail delivery five days a week around the country. That's the way it should be in a civilised country. We're going to cancel out over 1 billion. kr more than the government to make rail a competitive alternative to car and aircraft. It includes more means to resume maintenance, to advance on new extensions, multiple crossing tracks and several new train wagons, including sleeping cars. I'm also going to take 10 million. kr to track the North Norway. Safe roads and environmentally friendly passenger and goods transport around the country cost money, but above all it may cost political will. Red picks up this by cutting off the pig road constructions, which both destroys the food soil, hoards a lot of bogs, is destructive and, not least, increases greenhouse gas emissions. Instead, we ensure safe roads throughout the country by prioritizing the upgrading and maintenance of existing road networks. We cannot have a debate on transport and rail without talking about the elephant in space, the fourth rail package of the European Union. An overall trade movement with the Norwegian Lokomotivemannsförbund at the head, appropriately, has been opposed to the notification, which deprives Norway of sovereignty over both railway organisation and safety, and which can render competitive outsourcing, break-up and privatisation irreversible. Red supports the promise made by the Hurdals platform, which states that the government should ‘be engaged in dialogue with the EU as soon as possible with the aim of ensuring Norway’s exemption from the provisions of the fourth rail package of the EU’. It should be a matter of course after the spin-off of the right-wing government, which went against the then-elected majority of the population, who said clearly no to the EU railway package. But the government had hardly taken place in the government offices before they almost began to proliferate away from the promise by proposing temporary exemptions from the railway package, which would only mean a postponement of forced privatisation. The policy of the Red and also the demands of the trade union movement are clear: lasting protection against EU forced privatisation, fragmentation and deterioration of working conditions in Norwegian railways. We have made a proposal to withdraw Norway from the fourth rail package of the EU. The government parties state in the setting that they will first check the scope to stop the railway from competing within the framework of the package, but it is to believe in the Christmas event when the whole purpose of the package is to ensure the privatisation, fragmentation and competitive launching of the European rail system. That is why we are asking the Central Party and the Labour Party to vote in favour of the Red's proposal. Then they can attend Christmas well, with a good conscience, knowing that they have fulfilled the Hurdal platform's promise to both employees and passengers on Norway's railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2113	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2118	I'm not surprised that Red is against rail package IV. The representative Moxnes and I have been following public transport in Oslo for many years. We have experienced that Red has voted against all the reorganisations we have done, the postponement of bus services, the establishment of routes in their time – we have voted against them. All the tolls were voted against, Oslopackak 3 was opposed. Then my question is: As far as the development we see of public transport in the Oslo region is concerned, where there has been a formidable improvement: does the representative believe that that development has failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2123	It has been a gigantic success story, what has happened to bringing together the glare of companies at the Progress Party and the Right Guard in Oslo, to a more integrated company – away from Collective Transport Production AS and to the Sporvegen. It shall have some of the honours of – and not least of the trade union pressurised. Now it's a success story. Among other things, we have the most effective T-Bahn across Europe, and the trick is also world-class. So it's actually a story that we've gone away from Progress Party organization and over to a more consistent and common organization of the tram and the T-Bahn in Oslo. The tragic thing is that the mistakes made by the Progress Party in Oslo are now being carried out at national level, on the railways – fragmentation, privatisation, fragmentation of responsibility. That's the wrong way to go. It's driving the train backwards into the future, and that's a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2128	Yes, but nevertheless, this development from a system that collapsed about the late 1990s shows that one had to have the courage to move forward in order to achieve the improvement that we have made. Then the next question about the railway. It is clear that there too we need to have better coordination between countries – we do so in Europe, we do so in Scandinavia – especially if we are to think of high-speed between the big cities, and there is a whole need for regulation. Then my question becomes: When Red goes against the railway package IV, is it because of the content of the package, or would Red be against cooperation and an EU directive almost regardless of what the content would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2135	Red is for cooperation. Then we are against over-management by the EU and against giving sovereignty and not least the right of self-determination to a union of which we are not even a member. We are against the railway package because we see that the purpose of it is to implement the policy of the Progress Party in this field. Whatever the majority you get in a major election, the policies of the Progress Party on the fragmentation and privatisation of passenger train services – regardless of what the population says yes or no to in a choice. It is undemocratic that we get one-way driving regardless of the outcome of the elections. It's undemocratic, but it's stupid, too. This has been implemented in the United Kingdom and Sweden. They've split up, they've made a bunch of companies. It is responsible powdering, poorer provision for passengers – the wrong recipe for getting a better railway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2140	I've grown up in a railway family. So when I grew up, I went the railroad ski, when we went on vacation, we went to railway cabins, and it was natural to go on interrail when I got old enough. I have even worked as a railway worker on the Gjøvik Railway. It's been big, but I kind of don't understand why Red should hold on to what's been. The purpose of railway package IV has nothing to do with the policy of the Progress Party, this is just as much the policy of the Left, that we believe we need to have as good a rail as we can. Tenders are one thing to use, but you can also choose to have other solutions to get it done. The main thing is to have cross-border cooperation, so that it is easier to get a train trip, to get more trains and more to travel by train. Does it not see Red that rail package IV is also involved in providing more passengers in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2152	Some things were better before. Now I've rounded 40. When I was born, it was probably possible to go to Copenhagen night and night, but then the railway has been underfunded for many years. Decisive flooding has given priority to motorways, gigantic motorways into the big cities rather than to the real bet on the train. Aeroplanes have also taken over very much of the transport. But if it is willful, it is fully possible to both ensure that we have a good cross-border offer – you don’t have to have the EU to do that, you can do that without the EU – and also to bet on upgrading the railways domestically to become more competitive against both road transport and air transport. What we don't want is a lot of expensive intermediary, that's bureaucracy, a bunch of different companies, what we've seen with trams and buses and trams in Oslo before it was cleaned up. What happened both in Sweden and in England is the recipe for more chaos and also worse conditions for employees in these important transport industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2157	If we compare Norway and Sweden, I agree that with the rail reform we are getting a system where we get more of the money we spend, we have more control over the improvement of the offer we have in Norway. Sweden has had this in the past. There is no doubt that Sweden now has a big stake, both on high-speed trains from Stockholm to Copenhagen, and there is a stake on the railways. There are even Norwegian companies like Vy that also own companies that compete in Sweden. Does the representative from Red think that Norwegian railway today is better than the one they have in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2162	For very many years, many decades, changing governments and growing majority have neglected the railway, so it would be wrong to highlight Norway as a country of the past in this way. Many look to Switzerland, many look to France, to Germany, to continental countries in Europe that have not chosen that path of privatisation and fragmentation, because the railway is a natural monopoly where you can take advantage of all the advantages of having material within one organisation. You have the whole thing, and you also have the economies of scale if you have it together. If you split it up, you can't borrow from those who are offered one way or another if they lack material. That would be distorting. There is therefore competition between actors rather than cooperation to drive the railway ahead. There are rails lying around in our country, and it is inefficient to split up the operation of the rails on 14 different companies. We need complete but also strengthening in budgetary terms. That's the way to strengthen the railway, we mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2167	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2172	There's really been a lot of effort on public transport in the last eight years, or really on the road. I tend to say that is the bourgeois majority, there will be a lot of traffic, and that has been the last eight years as well. Now this budget is over 81 billion. kr, and we're following up an ambitious national transport plan. There has also been a doubling in the budgets from 2013 to today. There are over 100 new trains, we have seen a huge increase in the number of passengers – unfortunately only until 2019; in 2020 we got the Corona situation, which has reduced it, but we went from 62 million passengers to 80 million passengers until 2019. There has also been a significant increase in large cities. So if we look at the urban growth agreements and their impact over the last 15 years, we've got a better collective system in Norwegian cities than we've ever had, compared to similar cities in other countries. Indeed, it has come so far that when producing ten examples of good climate action, the OECD uses the Norwegian zero-emission target and the Norwegian urban growth agreements as one of the examples for the rest of the world. I think we've been creative, but we've also been brave about organization. We have entered the fourth rail package of the European Union, and it is the same package that applies to France, Germany and other countries that have well-developed, ambitious and modern rail operations. That's the same code we're going to be part of. Nye Veier has also been involved in innovation, and we also have good experience with public-private cooperation. But where we are right now, we have a situation where public transport, and in particular county public transport, is in crisis. It's because of the passenger drop we have because of the pandemic, but it's clear that this is one of the most serious problems we have to deal with in 2022. For the time being, the government has invested 500 million. kr in their budgetary cooperation. From the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, we have a total of 850 million. kr. But none of this will be enough. It's good that the crisis package is back, but when the government comes back to the Stortinget, we have to be able to have a bet on the public transport from the counties that allows us to get out of the pandemic with as good an offer as we had when the pandemic started. I think it would be totally unacceptable if we got out of this crisis and got a discussion about how to adapt public transport to new travel patterns, and that leads to a worse offer. So we've been able to build a collective system around the big cities almost continuously for 17-18 years, where it's improved every single year. It's been willing locally, and it's been willing nationally to get it done. Then it can't be the first year that you have a new majority on the Stortinget, which shows that you don't have the same will to maintain the strength that we've had for a long time. It is also good that SV has re-established the support for the smaller urban areas, which were taken out by the government in the additional position, so that agreement can be reached with Bodø, Ålesund, Haugesund, Arendal, Grimstad and Vestfold cities. The second major thing we have done — it may have been more than that, but that has international significance — is what we have done in Norway in more environmentally friendly transport. I would say that there are no other countries that do more and have more results than we have here. One thing is the electric cars and the electric car revolution we have -- we went from 5 pst. sales in 2013 to almost 80 p.p., which is probably what is now inside – but we also have what we have done in green shipping, with 70 ferry routes, and we are in front of the whole new thing on aviation. I think we have to have the same ambitions: that we are among the first to be able to get commercial green routes also in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2196	With this budget, we are going from talking to practice in linking climate policy and infrastructure policy, with several concrete proposals in which we are now going to have coherence in how it is built, so that it also saves climate and nature. I wonder if the representative, Mr Elvesuen, who has been the Minister for Climate and Environment, sees that what is being done now is progress? Large natural areas have been lost in recent years, and where there have been previously planned vitraces where even houses and farms have been demolished – whether they have been in Melhus, Malvik or Rennebu – suddenly the land has new trails beside it, and then to take even more land and nature. But now we're going to get away from the waste culture and the degradation of nature. Now we're going to give priority to everyday paths and the sensible use of money. I wonder if the representative Elvesuen also sees that this is a good direction for infrastructure policy – for people and business?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2205	The left has had climate policy as the overall throughout the last eight years, both in terms of rail investment, in terms of public transport – to which I also referred – and in terms of the conversion to zero emissions, which is to a large extent happening in Norway. As far as infrastructure and construction are concerned, I agree that you need to keep looking at how you can plan better. It's very much about what trasé choices you make, considering both nature and the cultural landscape. There we have good examples in Norway, but we also have some I think should have been different.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2212	That's right. That was a good answer; it's about trasé elections. This is also the case with regard to, inter alia: speed limits. If you want to keep 110 km/h as a speed limit, you can't have so many turns, and that means that there are also large, popular nature areas and open air areas that need to be removed from both the local population, cabin people and tourists. I was wondering another thing: our policy in this area is so thoughtful that it is now related to Safe Traffic. I would like to say one thing about the post of the representative of Greece from the Right. He claimed that it was a downscaling of road safety to go to two- and three-field roads, but the representative Elvesuen can also sign that we can build two- and three-field roads with middle parts and have a top traffic safety? Safe Traffic believes that what is happening now is a step forward, both for nature and for the road safety of the population in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2219	Traffic safety is of course very important. Now, for the last eight years -- or how long it is -- we've had a decrease in the number of deaths in traffic of about 50 pst., I think, so the numbers are positive. I'm not very sure who will decide which way is the safest – I think it should be a professional assessment, and I follow the advice I get.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2226	I noticed that Ola Elvestuen, in his post, concentrated beyond all speaking time on the problems of the big cities. It's important, but the country also consists of larger parts than the big cities, so I thought I'd give Elvesu a chance to say a little bit about Left's ambitions for transportation in the country otherwise. The left now had the ability to vote for both a slightly higher frame for broadband and race protection or cheaper ferries. These are all examples of gripping the population and business in the districts in order to strengthen housing and value creation in the districts. When not these measures are what the Left will support, what is the Left's grip on transport to strengthen value creation and building in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2232	I believe that the railway effort we have is also important for all the areas between the endpoints that are. We definitely don't have to look at railway operations as just dealing with the big cities. For the left, we're probably much more interested in maintaining and upgrading the roads we have, so that we get the necessary race protection and upgrading of the roads, so that we have ways with yellow middle stripe, to say it like that. We've been a driver of the increase we've had in the last few years on the county roads, which have been significant. There are still large delays, but there has been a significant increase. I also believe that in the case of municipal public transport, it is definitely not just about Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and the big cities it is about, it is also the collective offer you have throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2241	I would like to begin by recognising the role of the Left and the representative in starting the good electric car policy we have in the country, and thank you for the compliment for the collective effort in the big cities, which the Green Party has, after all, been involved in controlling parts of the local area. I share the representative's concern about the situation of public transport and would like to challenge the representative: if the Left had a full grip on this situation and could steer the policy in this area, what action does the representative think it would be important to take now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2246	Just now that there's a crisis, it's that we have to follow up so that you get full compensation for next year as well. It's been given to the public companies this year. They must also get to the next year so that we can maintain the offer, because it is the offer that is crucial. That's the offer we're going to have to rebuild the number of passengers and the importance of public transport, and that's when it has to be done. This is about, like the municipalities, having full compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2251	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2256	I would like to start by thanking SV for the results they have obtained in the budget agreement, such as, among other things. ensures further propulsion of new rail between Arna and Voss. We are also pleased that there have been some temporary means of keeping public transport liquid for a few months, although the need is much greater than what is now on the table. The transition to new travel habits is not something we can advance as of today. Collective societies need predictability and security. If we don't risk a very important offer suffering suffocation death while they would need a solid bet. We now have the chance to view the situation as an opportunity to build the collective system of the future. That is why the Green Party has proposed in our alternative state budget, among other things. a conversion package to the districts, a bet on the rural environment packages, increased support to the public companies and significant cut in ticket prices so that we ensure a good collective offer after the pandemic, ready to meet the future. Politics is about prioritizing. We have to choose. Do we want to bet on more private carism as a country, or do we want to bet on collective? Do we want to bet on the development of large motorways, or do we want to bet on the construction of the track? Do we want to bet on freight being carried with ever larger trailers, or do we want it to be carried on rail or on water? In the alternative state budget of the Greens, we have briefly told one major, overarching priority in the field of transport. We prioritise maintenance, securing and upgrading of existing roads and bets on collectives, bicycles and corridors rather than building new roads in parallel with roads and ferry routes we already have. As of today, we lack solid evidence of a real new direction in the budget itself that comes from the new government. What we see is cheaper petrol and diesel and more expensive electric cars. The government has not yet trampled on the brake on new motorways through protected nature – neither in the Lowend delta, the wetlands of the Ring Kingdom or the coastal rain forest of Tysnes. We see that another motorway project is transferred to New Roads, and with them in the bag they get the Ringeriksbahn, despite the fact that New Roads have never planned or built anything other than road. Over 1.5 billion. kr the government shall use to cut tolls – and thus provide an incentive for more driving – of which half a billion in cities, which are now in the midst of the much-discussed crisis in public transport while car traffic is increasing. The power of the railway budget for freight, safety and the environment, stations and hubs is reduced from 2.4 billion. NOK 2021 to SEK 1.1 billion. NOK 2022. The government cuts about 330 million. to improve roads, facilitate walking and cycling, road safety and research on sustainable transport. The government also cuts 20 million. SEK in grants to safer school roads and the community. Today's transport policy becomes crucial if we are to achieve our climate goals. Today's government's transport policy will not take us to the 2030 target, and it will not contribute to: stop the loss of endangered species and nature, as far as we can see from this year's budget. Finally, I would like to refer to the excellent proposal put forward by the Red House to end the Great Britain's accession to the EU's fourth rail directive. This summer the Stortinget voted in favour of the directive, against the votes of the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Green and Red Environmental Party. The matter was then dealt with in the EEA Committee after the autumn elections, despite the fact that the Solberg government no longer had a majority in the Stortinget. This is what we in the Greens believe is critical, and it was also announced to the EEA Committee that the new majority would seek to end this accession. The attitude of the Transport Committee shows that the Workers' Party and the Centre refuse to suspend the approval of the Stortingen. However, SV further promotes the proposal to repeal the decision. Before the summer, like the Greens, the political parties clearly rejected the fourth European Union. railway package. We are therefore going to support the SV proposal, which originally came from Red, and will encourage the Workers' Party and the Center Party to do the same. With this, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2286	Then the representative Kristoffer Robin Haug brought up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2293	In Norway, taxis are to be part of our collective offer. In taxi policy, a socially fair policy goes hand in hand with the policy that makes sense resource use, and therefore also environmentally friendly. Unfortunately, we have recently seen that things are going a lot the other way around, because in some parts of the country one is cut off from the possibility of using this part of the collective offer in some parts of the day, while in the cities sometimes it accumulates with more taxis than there is a passenger base for. I would like to hear the Greens assess what changes to the taxi policy they think are sensible in the future, both in order to create social justice and security for those who live by this important job, and in order to have a sensible use of resources throughout the country 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2298	I thank you for the question. The reform to which the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen refers has proved to have many unfortunate consequences, including: in the case of parts of the districts, where there is a risk of getting a significantly worse or in some cases non-existent offer, depending on the time of day or location. The idea of liberalisation was enough to provide a better offer in many places, but, as the representative suggests, this will probably be significantly better in very central areas, where there will be competition for these rights. We believe that what will be a major reversal of this reform will probably be the most ludicrous measure. We were opposed to this reform when it came and hopes that the sitting government will work on coming back to a situation where a lot of care is taken of part of the scheme that you had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2305	First to the taxi reform: in 328 of the country's three hundred and fifty municipalities, the new taxi reform does not apply. There it is just like before. So how it's going to get worse in municipalities that have the same taxi system as before, I don't know, but there's something government parties have to answer. The Greens have made it a struggle to fight against the largest environmental project currently taking place, the development of the Ringerix Railway. It will cut the travel time to Bergen by one hour at the end and one half hour at the other end. The other end mentioned representative Kristoffer Robin Haug in his post. How many years will the people of Hallingdal, Ringerijk and Bergen have to wait if the Greens get an impact on their demand that the Ringeriksban must be completely replanned and go through Nittedal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2314	Throwing good money after bad is generally a little lucky strategy. The fact that there has been a small-scale project that has been warned of for very many years, especially because of the devastating effect it could have on wetlands, is not necessarily a bearing argument in itself to continue that development further. Of course, it always costs time and money to fix the faults that have been made. We believe that as politicians we have to stand by, but we believe that if you start planning a better solution as soon as possible, you will be able to get a ringhole that is still standing in the future, without too much loss of planning time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2319	In the mid-1990s, I was in charge of the county sub-plan for the Ringerik Railway in the district of Buskerud. Now let's write 2021, so it was 26 years ago. In the meantime, there was another decision that the Ringeriksbanen should go via Åsa; it was scrapped. Now all the professional authorities, all the political parties – mostly, with the exception of the Greens – have stated that the Ringerix track through Hole is a good solution. My question is: If the Green Party, which is very concerned about building rail in Norway, had now had a majority to torpedo the largest and most important environmental and travel shortening project on the railways, would the Green Party actually have scrambled the entire Oslo-Bergen railway project, which has been planned for so many years – I kept saying a hundred years – without a wink?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2327	On the contrary, we want to strengthen and improve the project with Bergensbanen – that is what is our whole argument: that a solution about Nittedal will actually work better, both when you look at the settlement of goods and especially when you look at the natural values. It is part of these professional bodies that Greece unfortunately does not address, both those dealing with the investigation of freight transport, and the many professional bodies that have called for warning of the destruction of the natural environment by the line that many of the parties seem to support today. As Greece shows, there is in no way the Green Party that has been behind most of the delays in this path – it is the other parties that have to take credit for it. We want this project to be reformed, at least in a more environmentally friendly way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2334	In many areas, climate and transport hang close together, because transport has a high climate impact. But then there's also a lot of positive happening, like electric cars and emission-free alternatives also for public transport over long distances, and for aircraft. Nevertheless, often a little echo in the rhetoric of the Green Party: that railway is great, road is “not” – or not. The question for Haug is: does the Greens do not see that non-emission alternatives on the road can also be a good alternative to building new railways, which also build up soils and natural areas that are still untouched?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2339	I thank you for the question and the challenge. Now it turns out that, to a large extent, road projects are building down most of nature. One typically needs a much wider road – especially for those who want these four-field motorways – than what one needs to build naturally when building a somewhat narrower route, especially when using new technologies and new solutions. So I'd like to add that there's a reason we're quite enthusiastic about the railways in the Green Party. Personally, I'm not an original politician, I'm an original physicist. The laws of physics can't actually be negotiated away from, and there's something called roll friction. No matter how technically advanced a truck becomes, rubber still meets asphalt at some point, and there is significantly greater friction — and thus significantly greater energy loss — than you will ever get when metal meets metal on a railway rail. We have to deal with that, and so far there is therefore a significant energy saving potential in using the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2346	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2351	A good transport infrastructure binds Norway together and is crucial for housing and jobs throughout the country. For this government, there are four main steps that will be important: we will further bind the country together, so that people can live in the whole country and businesses get transported their goods. We will intensify efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions. The transport sector is too high for emissions, but we also have many of the solutions. We want to strengthen the fight for serious work and the fight against social dumping. We cannot sit still and watch that our working life is getting worse for the employees. We will intensify the work on the goal of zero-killed and hard-damaged traffic. There is a lot in the previous government's proposal for a transport budget that we are behind, but our government made some very clear priorities in the supplementary number. There are changes that will mean something to people across the country, changes that will help cut greenhouse gas emissions, and changes that will improve transport policy. In the draft budget, we propose to reduce ferry prices by nearly 1 billion. kr. From January of this year until January of next year the tariffs will be reduced by 30 pst. With the draft budget on the right, prices would rise for ordinary people. We've also done $30 million. kr for free ferries in low-traffic connections. We're going to spend almost 40 billion dollars. kr on highways until next year. Many major projects are under construction and this budget provides funding for the construction of E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen in Kristiansand, E136 Breivika-Lerstad in Ålesund and E8 Sørbotn-Laukslett, on the access road to Tromsø. There are long-term projects that will bind the country together and create a simpler everyday life for ordinary people. This budget also provides funds for the preparation of several major projects, such as: Southfold tunnels in Northland and Phase 2 of the Oslofjord link. In the ENB budgetary unit, additional funds were provided for the preparation of the joint project E16 and the Voseban Arna-Staghelle to maintain good progress. The railway budget made a big pants with an increase of about 4.5 billion. kr from 2020 to this year. This high level will be continued until next year. That's now closer to 32 billion. kr on the railway budget – a bet that will eventually allow more people to choose environmentally friendly solutions when moving around in Norway. There is a great deal of activity in railway development, and the budget will make rational progress on the intercity sections of the Eastfold Railway, the Westfold Railway and the Dovre Railway. New major projects for the next year include: Sørli-Åkersvika on Dovrebanen and Flöen-Bergen-Nygårdstangen terminal on Bergensbanen. Norwegian trains enter into a contract to buy new local trains during these days. Next year we will start acquiring new long-distance trains, and we will buy spare cars that make us less vulnerable until the new trains are in place. This is an important step in creating a better day-to-day travel for passengers. The size shall also decide today on the adoption of a cost framework for the transfer of Bodø airport. The project will create positive urban development and strengthen the national dimension. Out of smaller measures on the transport budget, I will bring forward the new grant scheme for fossil-free site pilot projects. There was an agreement in the budget agreement with the Swedish authorities to increase the funds for this from 50 million to 62 million. kr. The scheme could contribute to the development and testing of zero emission solutions in the installation sector. Another important bet we make in the additional number is to increase the subsidy on goods on the track. This will help to ensure that more goods can walk on rails. It cuts both emissions and traffic. Both are important measures contributing to lower greenhouse gas emissions. The uncertainty that has arisen due to the recent development of the pandemic is demanding for aviation. Uncertainty results in lower air travel demand and lower airport attendance. We are therefore well in the process of implementing several measures to maintain a good flight offer. This includes measures such as additional compensation to FOT route operators, fee reductions and the possible purchase of minimum commercial route offers if necessary. In addition, it is also known to the House that the government has taken the initiative to continue compensation schemes for public transport for county municipalities, particularly linked to buses, but also to rail, trains, express buses and boats. So we're taking a clear step to help a sector that has major challenges as a result of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2377	It has been interesting to read the common comments written between the government parties and the government, because the government budget makes slight changes to the government of Solberg. But that's what's pointing forward, which gives cause for concern. This has been underlined today by the fact that the representative Sande, the representative of Fagerås and others have raised and said very clearly that someone is now going to finance the new transport effort by cutting down the roads. It says here that the government will review the road standards, ‘including a higher traffic volume threshold for the construction of the four-field motorway’. What are the motorway projects that Nygård State Council wants to downgrade, and when will that list be available? Do we have to wait until the budget next year to see what the government will cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2382	There is a mission from the budget unit in Stortinget that I interpret as an investigative mission for the government. We will start looking through these projects and see how we can fulfill what is ordered. But some concrete cancellation of motorway projects does not get the representative from the undersigned here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2387	The government has spent a lot of time in the new government platform, the Hurdal platform, describing the reforms they are opposed to. It's very much about -- I can use the words to reverse, wait or go back to. The representative from the Workers' Party, Sandtrøen, has a nostalgia. Reodor Fellen was really an inventive man, and he tried to look forward, but the representative Sandtrøen has been most concerned about looking back. He's talking about NSB when it's called Vy, etc. Is it the case that the government has of new reforms in the field of transport to reverse reforms that the old government had, and to reduce road construction standards in Norway? Is that what the vision of the new government is?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2392	On the contrary, this government has a very offensive transport policy, and we are going to have it in many areas. What we have opted for and have to implement is a progressive transport policy. The fact that the representative believes it is reversal depends on where you stand at the beginning, what you think is the future, and what you think is the past. We believe that we are facilitating a forward-looking transport policy for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2397	The representative Sandtrøen, from the same party as the Council of State, has called it waste to save society for 12.5 billion. In the railway reform, as the Minister himself writes in a letter to the Stortinget. The Minister also writes that there are 250 more departures per week on the railway, as a result of the reform. For the Progress Party, it is wasted if you say no to test out what it will cost to run the railway. About Trafikpakket 3 Vest, Bergensbanen, Vy has previously said that it costs 200 million. kr annually to run the train. That's what you're supposed to have. That's what it costs. As soon as it became a competition, the same view said: now we want to pay 200 million. NOK, and we will drive several trains and offer a better offer to the customers. The Minister of Transport has now cancelled package four and five, which could possibly mean up to 20 billion. kr saved. The progressing party calls it waste not to test that offer. Does the Minister for Transport agree that it is good use of taxpayers' money not to test out what it really costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2405	These $12.5 billion. kr is a theoretical calculation of what could be saved given that these contracts were fulfilled as they were concluded. Now we all know that the world looks completely different, so we'll never get a clear answer to that. It also requires another element, and it is that direct allocation could not in any way provide improvements in the multi-departure train offer. You can't be sure of that. So it's quite possible, in my opinion, to develop the rail offer in Norway by building on the public railway companies we have, and of course, in such an approach to the policy, we're going to get the most out of the money. We owe it to the whole community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2412	Then it's interesting to ask what the council itself writes to the Stortinget about that 1.1 billion. kr has been saved provisionally and whether it is correct or not. But it may well be so interesting to ask how around the world the Minister of Transport, who has stated that he is the Minister of Railways – he is happy about the railways – sees that there can be a better offer by letting everything be like before and not building up the Oslo Tunnel, which is absolutely crucial for having more trains through Oslo. Does the Minister for Transport agree that there is something strange about saying that one now has a different ideology and then the offer is going to be good, without making any change?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2419	It must be based on a misconception that no changes will be made to the sector. The representative is probably well aware of – and he himself was aware of it – what is at the heart of developing a better rail service in Norway. It's about developing the infrastructure. Luckily, there's a lot of good going on in that area, which almost all of the parties agree on. Some people have greater ambitions, but here I think we all have to make sure to develop the capacity of the rail service. That's what will lead us to get a better offer for the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2424	The minister is a self-declared railway enthusiast, who has been visited by several people. The previous government built highways in great style before modern two-track railway in important corridors. At best, the plan was that the railway and motorway should be built at the same time. There's a safe grip to knock away a lot of the foundation of the railway. The construction of multiple motorways will also undermine the ambitions of multiple train passengers and more goods on the track. What will this minister do to ensure that he does not remove the basis for the railway, but, on the other hand, increases its use? And will this government consider scrapping or scaling down some of the oversized and environmentally hostile motorway projects? If not, how can you afford both? I'm afraid the railroad will lose with this government too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2431	There is now an offensive commitment on rail and road in the budget that exists, and so does the national transport plan, which is largely agreed on. What I want to say is that Norway is so complex that you can't say that you're just going to do one thing or the other. Norway is a diverse country, and rail is not a real alternative everywhere. That's why, of course, with this government too, we're building roads in this country, because it's about getting people and going. Then we've got a mission from Stortinget that we're going to look at. It's going through our road projects and seeing if it's possible to do it in a more reasonable and efficient way, and so that we achieve the climate goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2440	As we've been through several times today, county public transport is in crisis. The budgetary decisions we are making now will not be close enough to maintain the offer that we have had and that we had before the pandemic. My question will then be, when the government is going to work with the budget into 2022 and come back to the Stortinget: can we be sure that we will receive that support for public transport that will enable us to maintain the offer, and that we can build on the success we have described today, both on rail and public transport, which has become increasingly better in recent years? Or do we now risk fewer departures and more expensive tickets because of the need to adapt the offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2447	This government has ambitions to have a good collective offer, that we should take the growth in transport needs in cities with collectives, corridors and bicycles, and that we should achieve the zero growth targets, and of course we should make sure that we have a policy that will enable us to achieve those goals. Collective transport, rail transport and aviation are now in a difficult situation because demand is reduced, and we have said that we should go in and remedy it in the situation we are in now. So there are some challenges that we might call a new normal. These include: on home office use, by which we see increased effects, and which will of course also contribute to reducing transport needs. It is climate- and environmentally friendly. To the extent that it affects the new normal, of course, we're not going to drive empty trains and buses. But we have to find a new normal level that ensures that we can get good collective offerings to the population throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2456	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2463	It has been interesting, exciting and a little frustrating to follow the budget debate in our area this year. It has been interesting, because we feel that very many of the premises that were laid down by the Solberg government have been passed on. This applies, for example: the ABE reform, which is expected to be more effective even before the public. Here the government parts have interesting enough tighten the screw extra. It has been exaggerating, because one saw that the gray budget provided by the government before climate and environment could not possibly stand, and it was arranged for SV to come and sweep out a little spider tissue and fossil stanchions with green solutions that belong to the future. But that's where frustration comes in. Because well, it looks beautiful on paper when the deal in the first point starts with: ‘The government asks the Government to assume that, as far as possible, tenders in county ferry and boat services are to be based on zero-emission technology and to compensate counties for the additional costs involved.’ But what does it mean when it's not followed up with a single penny beyond what the Solberg government has put in? Because the technology is in place, and the county councils can start ordering, but without mandatory promises made on the table, it is not possible to initiate such an order. For the government, there is no idea what it will cost, how it will be implemented, or what the time aspect of action is. The government got a good basis to work out from, with the budget of the Solberg government. It is disappointing to note, however, that where the Solberg government was on the right track to follow up the NTP, the big government is aft. Where we raised traffic safety, zero vision and Barna's transport plan, the Big Government lowers ambitions. And even if one adds to better counting for those who depend on a ferry every day, it is nevertheless added to discrimination against island communities that only have access to speedboats. But there it might not be common people? Finally, if the original budget had been drawn up by our government, we would have had an offensive climate policy, we would have got more money for research and development, for the Pilot-T and research centre, and we would have ensured that several road actions had been started, which means the improvement of road safety, the organisation of the sick and walking and the development of the districts. Rightly, we would also have gotten fossil running gear less in focus, and a little fewer things to do on endless rounds of distribution, with insecurity that would create for new motorway projects – but it would have been to live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2485	Building on the best of our country – strong communities, high trust and small differences – is a decisive factor in our nation and people being involved in raising and developing this country further. I'm glad we're getting involved in creating a new course. When it comes to the transport industry, for which I am responsible – an important industry – I want to look at the taxi industry in particular. In my view, the previous government party and the Progress Party have carried out an irresponsible release in respect of taxi rights. They have implemented a deregulation of the taxi market, which is now destroying the labour market of a large professional group, as the taxi drivers make up. The health care industry needs security of income, the ability to secure a future good pension, and they need to have good social security schemes. It's our course for this we want to stick out, and it's urgent. I note that the right side will offer a poorer supply to the public: uninhabitable prices, unsafe jobs, poor wages in the industry, lower and uninhabitable incomes to society and a poorer transport supply for sick, elderly and disabled people in our long-term country. We are now forcing the taxi industry to compete against private drivers with mobile apps. This is going to turn the Center Party upside down. The government and we will stop this fresco in the taxi industry. We're going to do that in good dialogue with the industry itself. I think we need to take action that works. Examples are the introduction of bank guarantees, training requirements such as previous ones, driving obligations, taximeter requirements, connection to central and good car control. These are things that work and can work. I want to refer to a conversation I had earlier today with a taxi centre in Steinkjer, about the consequences this gives. This is a large city – or medium-sized city – with many inhabitants who are now standing unsolicited for much of Christmas. We have to take the industry seriously. We have to take the inhabitants seriously. This is an important industry. Now it's time for us to turn it around and create a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2502	On February 18, 1982, one of the biggest racial accidents we've had on the Norwegian road. On the way to a concert in Florø, three of the band members and a technician in New Jordal Swinger's life were lost. A stone block of seven tons struck and crushed the tour bus at the Helgåsberget on rv. 5 between Florø and Förde. Unfortunately, this tragic accident was not an isolated event on an otherwise safe road – on the contrary. The Erdal-Naustdal line is a very slippery and dangerous stretch. There have been many events and accidents over the years, and many say that it's only luck that no more lives have been lost. Yes, even in the previous week the road had to close because of race. Every day there are 4,500 cars running on the track – many of them commuters between the two cities of Sunnfjord. Running on a clear and dangerous stretch over time does something to us. There are several, particularly commuters and professional drivers, who have expressed that the daily running has become a psychological impression. This is particularly true in days of heavy rainfall, when the water can simply be seen underfoot down the mountain side and out into the roadway. Naturally, this leads to more people refusing to take the run. Thus, the distance has also evolved into a barrier between Florø and Förde. We've all lost track of that. There was so much joy in the region this summer when the new NTP was treated by Stortinget, because after 40 years of discussions, wishes and plans, it is now a solution. In the new NTP, it's set by over 2 billion. kr to tunnel between Erdal and Naustdal, and approx. 500 million of these come in the first period of the plan. In the case of the project itself, the State Road Administration is now continuing its planning work, including: The line to the new tunnel shall be fixed. But the joy of the content of the NTP has now turned to despair, because last week Firda announced that the planning work on the new road between Florø and Förde has stopped altogether. This is because a newspaper called an internal 'write error' between the relationships related to the project costs. The case is now in a drawer in the Ministry of Transport, without anyone knowing when it will be rewritten. It is not acceptable that the vital effort to improve the dangerous and raspling road between Florø and Förde has stopped. The Council of State therefore needs to ensure that the work is re-started as soon as possible. A new tunnel must come as fixed in the NTP and road users must not travel with their hearts in their throats.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2518	At the autumn elections, there was a clear majority for a new direction and course for Norway, which prioritises jobs and a safe and decent working life instead of privatisation and temporaryity, which stops centralisation and facilitates people to live and work throughout the country, and with clear and strong grips to cut greenhouse gas emissions. This work is already under way and in all these areas the Transport and Communications Committee will have an important role to play. The government is starting to stop the deregulation of the taxi market by the right-wing government, which is already destroying the labour market of a large professional group of taxi drivers. We will provide a taxi policy that provides a good offer to the public, with predictable prices, which provides drivers with safe jobs and a wage to live off, and which ensures the provision of transport for sick, elderly and people with reduced mobility throughout the country. In addition, we need an active policy to improve the pay and working conditions of professional drivers. The government will therefore take the initiative of an action plan against social dumping in the transport sector, a major and important industry for 100 000 jobs throughout Norway. If people are to live and work throughout the country, we have to make sure that both workers and students get safely back and forth to work and school. Then we need more money for racial protection and more money to repair our county roads. That's why we're giving 130 million priority. kr extra for racial protection, which means that we, among other things, may initiate the remedial action of the very rascal route in Rødsliane on Rv. 13 in Suldal, and we give hundreds of millions more to the counties. We already see the results of this, for example. in Troms, which uses the increased appropriations to significantly improve county roads. The new government clearly rejects the launching, fragmentation and privatisation of the rail system and has already suspended the competition for train provision in the East and has stopped the competitive deployment of railway operations and maintenance. We will pursue an offensive railway policy for the future that will enable rail to take a greater share of both passenger and freight traffic. More people and goods on the road will reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We're going to stop the right-wing government's proposed cut in the contribution to freight transfer from road to track, and we're going to grant 114 million. kr extra so that the restoration of E16 and Bergensbanen between Arna and Stanghelle can be further planned as a common project for both road and track, and not just road planning, as the right-hand government had proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2531	The Government of Solberg started work on a new roll-out report on a national aviation strategy. The ambition was to draw the lines for overall and sustainable development in Norwegian aviation. In addition to the post-pandemic developments, the notification must cover safety, the development of travel patterns, the state-supported route system, green aviation, future level of charges and competition on a level playing field. We in the Right are pleased that the Government of Støre will continue this work. A national aviation strategy must also reflect new transport and mobility patterns, such as: that small airports around our largest cities can become more important in the coming years. Low-noise electric aeroplanes open up entirely new possibilities. In addition, for example: micromobility and goods transport. The development of the law must be a factor in technological development. This must also be addressed by the national aviation strategy. It is also important in aviation that the charging system be used as an active tool to facilitate low- and zero-emission solutions as technology matures. We in the Right are concerned that the ticket prices of the State-backed routes should be at a reasonable level for passengers. In many places in Norway, the plane is the bus and the link between home and hospital, city centres and other activities needed in an active society. Competition on the short-distance network will provide more reasonable and frequent departures for people and businesses who create, live and operate in District Norway. Regional air routes are of great importance for the creation of value throughout the country. The FOT routes have a special meaning for District Norway. For this reason, the government of Solberg ensured an air service throughout the country during the pandemic, when purchasing routes, exemptions from charges and transfers of funds to Avinor and non-state airports. As it looks with the development of the pandemic, there may be a need for further support in the coming period. The pandemic gave great challenges to Stord Airport and the air route there. The Ministry has to look at Storting’s earlier call to follow up this flight route. The pandemic also posed major challenges for the airports of Haugesund and Sandefjord. The challenges were raised by the fact that the ESA competition rules led to less support for airports than the Stortinget decided. For this year the Stortinget has granted 157 million. kr to Torp Sandefjord airport, but as a result of the ESA competition rules only 70 million were transferred. kr. This is a major gap that further makes it difficult to cope with recent developments in the pandemic and restrictions imposed by the government. Non-state-owned airports must be compensated for when the next business support scheme is developed. We in the Right have noticed how the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have criticised the ABE reform of the Solberg government. The red tape and efficiency reform would help to streamline the public sector. Despite the criticism of the ABE reform, the majority of the parties have continued the ABE arrangements in the operating budgets of all state enterprises for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2546	It's not just a budget we're going to discuss here today. On behalf of everyone who has now waited for the handling of the Bømlo package, I would like to thank the case spokesman for a quick and smooth handling of the case to get a clarification before Christmas. Now there were probably probably other aspects of this proposition that meant that the handling was done at express speed, but still it is a great Christmas gift to send over the mountain. Those who have worked locally for the project and who, through thorough processes and wide multiples, have put in place a good foundation for which we are now to decide, can clapp themselves on the shoulder. This once again tells us how important it is that a local thing is to ‘belief’, which is so well called in the mountain. Because it is not possible to get under the chair that there has been some local disagreement in this matter at some point, both about toll locations, the contents of the package, how best to set up a fair payment system, and how the disadvantages of such bombs can best be distributed to the inhabitants. But after all, the boys have seen that good infrastructure provides Grobotn for an efficient and good business. It provides the basis for young families who want to bust themselves, and allows goods and services to arrive in time. These boys know everything about, competent as they are in the breeding and maritime industry. No, both the innovation centre and the fishing port are growing in the municipality, all because forward-looking politicians have seen that one has to be involved and contribute its own resources, a few steps forward in project planning and implementation. After the triangular connection has been established, and the planning of Hardfast and Rogfast will bind the continent together, the children have seen that they should be attractive, and the internal road system must also be part of the total infrastructure. Today it is only to congratulate the municipalities of Bømlo and Westland that one can now set down another mile for a municipality that is equipping itself for the future. For the boys, you can say congratulations on the day – and for others who think about getting things done: See Bømlo, because when you want to do something, it's no use with party politics markings and disagreements in the region. Discuss and stick together, and we'll have the country built. It is good district policy, it provides good social benefits, and it facilitates future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2557	Today, in addition to the budget, we are discussing a draft representative from the Red Party to the EU railway package. With a new plurality and a new government after the fall elections, we will secure a new policy for the railway. We've already shown that, and it's clearly shown in the settings we have for dealing with this issue today. Among the points in the Hurdal Platform, it is clear that the government will enter into dialogue with the EU as soon as it is advised, with the aim of ensuring Norway's exemption from parts of the EU's fourth railway package. The government says no to the launching, fragmentation and privatisation of the railway. The government has already demonstrated its power of action by halting the suspension of operational and maintenance tasks on the railways. The main challenge for the railways today is not too few players; it is a challenge with an old infrastructure and a large maintenance run. It is an important task to ensure more operational stability. This is best solved by setting clear frameworks for the operation and maintenance of the railway sector. In addition to stopping the competitive suspension of operations and maintenance, the government has put an end to the competition for the traffic packages 4 and 5. With this, the government continues direct train provision on these routes and will ensure a good, safe and transparent train provision for passengers. The Government will ensure Norway's exemption from parts of the EU 4th railway package because the fourth railway package is a poor solution for Norway. We believe that the railways should be managed from Norway, and that decisions taken by Norwegian railways must be taken by Norwegian peoples. Railway package IV implies mandatory and irreversible suspension of railway traffic, and that the European Railway Agency and the European Court of Justice can park State railway supervision in a certain way and when there is disagreement about safety assessments. We're against that. The Solberg administration produced the fourth railway package as an important document for more innovation and better quality of railway. We disagree with this. There is nothing today that prevents us from providing more quality and innovative solutions in the railways – we are doing well without over-management from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2568	The government had few weeks to change the draft government budget from the previous government. It's our job. This post asks for a little salty water, it's a little bit inside the maritime. One of the grips on the Hurdal platform is to lower the ferry prices by 50 pst. during that period. The start is good. With this state budget, we have reduced ferry tariffs by 30 pst. from New Year's Eve. We're going to halve the ferry prices in relation to 1 January 2021, and distances of less than 100000 passengers are going to be free of charge. It's amazing -- there's no other option. There is also agreement that county municipalities should be compensated for the additional costs associated with the supply of municipal ferries and boat services. As far as it goes, this has to be based on zero emission technology. We are doing well to follow up the Hurdal platform and secure development, growth and increased value creation along the whole coast. The ferries play a decisive role in logistics of goods and export-right businesses along our entire coast. Then the grip on the government for a good and reasonable ferry offer will lead well with it. Another area that is important is the fairway, the moloir and the harbour. It's important for value creation and construction along the whole coast. So this is one of the bet areas that this government now wants to take, in a good way. Ensuring more goods from road to sea, ensuring the further development of ports in fisheries-dependent coastal communities, is unlikely to be important. We want to make the fishing ports a state responsibility again. In the case of the county councils which are currently entrusted with the responsibility for the fishing ports, the responsibility shall be returned to the State, but then, of course, in a good dialogue with the county councils concerned. We see – only in my own country – that there are large maintenance seats on both moloar and ports that do not state municipalities and municipalities are good to take care of. This government will bet on ports, fairways and ferries so that the coast can now be heard in a good way. And we will have a good and important development along the entire Norwegian coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2583	The government is busy using all over the country. There is also a basis for the budget to be discussed today. I want to focus on a specific project. It is one of the few concrete projects mentioned in the budget, i.e. racial protection on the left. 13 Redsliane in the municipality of Suldal. There is a start-up charge of 65 million. NOK to a project with an estimated cost of about 890 million. kr. There is a project you are using. There's a race going on. There's a race when there's no race, when the relationship is good. People are scared. This is a school road. It has been working a long time to get this in place, and it is therefore very gratifying that this came into place in the budget agreement with SV. Afterwards, there has been a discussion about who has the honour of seeing this happen until the end of the day. For me, it reminds me a little bit that the pieces in a puzzle are discussing which of the most important ones. There are many who have done a job over time: NAF has our eagerness, the municipalities of the spokesmen in the region – largely from the Central Party, and we are pleased – with state politicians, businesses, big politicians. There's been a long pressure to focus on this. The press has also followed up. It's been important to get the project in place. But over to the most important reason, and then the question is, Should this happen? No, had there not been a new plural in Norway, this had not happened. We needed a government that sees those who live outside, and in this case those who live inside, to put in place such a kind of project. Had the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left ruled, the people of Suldal had been waiting for years before this project came. It was the political shift that was decisive for a realized project. It shows history of rv. 13 through Ryfylke. The last time it was a red-green government, it got one in place, the Sotunnel – an important road project. Now you get one in place on the Redsliane. Didn't the previous government get anything in place? Well, they got new ferries across the Jøsenfjord, which don't go much further and take longer to cross the fjord. It was the legacy of them. It was the voters who won to rv. 13 The Red Line came into place, and we shall be very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2596	There are in particular three reasons why SV is opposed to railway package IV. Firstly, the railway of the future in Norway must be determined by the Stortinget, not by the EU. Secondly, the fourth railway package of the EU means that it becomes mandatory – for the future – with the postponement of rail passenger traffic. Other countries that have tried this experiment before, privatising the railway, have had to turn around, and the state has taken over. We will not have that opportunity, for democracy will be subject to the directive here. Thirdly, railway safety may be weakened. Norwegian railways are today the safest in Europe. EU legislation moves the decisive safety decisions to Lille in France, and safety requirements are not designed from Norwegian circumstances, which should apply. The Hurdal Platform states that the government will: ‘to enter into dialogue with the EU as quickly as possible with a view to ensuring exemption from parts of the fourth rail package of the EU’. SV had expected the Labour Party-Center Party government to pursue its own policy and stand up to the EU. Strong reactions have been observed in the trade movement that the Workers' Party-Center Party government has not taken the initiative to follow up its own platform in order to avoid any future rail passenger traffic in Norway being subject to the EU coercive regime. The fight against the fourth rail package of the European Union has been ongoing for many years, for which an alliance of trade unions, SV, No to the EU and the Centre Party, etc., has co-existed. The Solberg Government has obtained hardly a majority for the EU railway package before the summer and has, after the elections, ensured that the decision is annexed to the EEA Agreement. It is therefore of great importance that action be taken now to get the rail out of the EU's coercive route. The Norwegian Railway Association has already adopted the requirement to repeal, or reverse, the staging decision. SV is on the same page as the trade union movement in this case. Workers' Party – The Central Party Government must at least comply with its own platform. The most important exceptions to be guaranteed are exemption from competition and the submission under EU railway supervision, ERA. This also means that it will be easier to reverse the fragmented organisation of Norwegian railways and to respect the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2618	It was the great ideology of the right-wing government that the market forces solved most, including within the sphere of transport. We have e.g. has had a taxi reform with many thousands more permits in the cities and not a taxi to pick up in the evening and weekends in the district. We have had a rail reform in which we have lost considerable railway competence. Train tickets have become more expensive and the responsibility has been powdered. Workers are out of tender. We have had a road reform where we have lost 1,200 employees in the road sector, and the costs of operating contracts have increased by up to 72 pst. National transport plan should be a tool, but has now become a wish list without priority. It's worth noting that the right-hand government in 2021 was 21 billion. kr according to your own plan. The maritime nation of Norway has for eight years had ‘a government with fear of water’, wrote the Arctic Alliance. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that funds we spend on transport, also used for safe jobs, for innovation and competitiveness, and for industrial development throughout the country. We have great challenges ahead of us. We will take better care of what we have, with better maintenance and race protection, and we will give priority to county roads, broadband and charging infrastructure. We're also going to think about climate action in everything we do, and we're going to take more care of nature and food soil than what's done today. The most important resource we have is workers, their competence and Norwegian enterprises. Therefore, we will ensure that Norwegian enterprises can compete by making demands in tenders and splitting up to Norwegian conditions. There will also be days after the pandemic and the power crisis. The crisis has shown us that we have not been well prepared and that closed borders make us vulnerable. We want to lack workers in many important disciplines, and it's urgent. We lack bus drivers, train crew, heavy-duty drivers, skilled workers – in addition to the lack of teachers and nurses. Transport is more than just the transport budget. We have increased the municipal budget, we have a hydrogen billion, we have charging strategy for an electric car, emission-free site... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2631	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2636	The government is doing well to meet the Hurdals platform’s objective of pursuing an offensive railway policy for the future. We have already made sure to cancel the further competitive outsourcing of the passenger train offer, and we have stopped the outsourcing of operations and maintenance tasks, where it was provided for a fragmented operation of these tasks – to no less than 10 different competitive packages. We show with this power of action to give people and businesses throughout the country a better railway. The railway policy of this government follows from the Hurdal platform. Most of the decisions on development in the railway sector and the design of the train offer are those we ourselves govern, based on our own policies. By the time this government joined, the fourth rail package of the EU had already been included in the EEA Agreement. We have to deal with this situation, even though we would prefer it to be different. The EEA Agreement shall form the basis for Norway’s relationship with Europe, but we will use the EEA Agreement space for action to ensure national control in important areas. The railway is one of these areas, specifically mentioned. We know that there is an action room within the EU/EEA legislation. This space of action must be exploited in order for us to be able to implement our policies. This concerns in particular the possibility of stopping privatisation, and we have already started our dialogue with the EU side on the Hurdals platform's intentions. There is a positive and constructive dialogue with the Commission with a view to clarifying how this legislation can be applied in order to achieve our policy objectives and take care of Norwegian interests. There are also several EU states that award passenger train contracts in the same way as we do, so we are not alone in this policy. As I've been about, after the government change, we haven't hesitated to implement new policies. Nor have we hesitated to show our EU/EEA partners that we will not be able to challenge the legislation if we believe it is necessary. In my view, this procedure is fully in line with the Hurdal platform. Finally, I will be allowed to state that we have good control of the design of Norwegian railway policy within the framework of EEA membership. The majority of Stortinget can still decide how to organise the railway sector, how to get the best possible train offer, how much money is to be allocated for railway purposes and how to use this money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2653	The representative proposal on railway package IV is at the core of isolationism and a belief that everything we can and do in Norway is much better than what they can and do in other countries, especially in European countries. In some areas, we need to have supranational rules if international cooperation is to be possible. Overnational rules are not undemocratic, at least not if Norway is involved in adopting them, which we could agree on whether we were EU members. Railway package IV is a set of rules to make it possible to run trains across national borders. The purpose of railway package IV is inter alia: to facilitate the approval of new train equipment and the granting of safety authorisation to train operators. It is tempting to compare railway package IV with the European Aviation Safety Agency, also known as EASA. Their task is, inter alia, to: to facilitate the approval of new aircraft equipment and the granting of safety approvals to air carriers. I think people in the aviation industry like EASA. Fortunately, the time has come for Norwegian inspectors to certify and approve new aircraft. When an aeroplane type is approved by EASA, it is automatically approved in Norway. When an airline flies to Norway, it must comply with the same rules as a flight to the rest of Europe. It's predictable, it's safe, it's based on knowledge and experience. It is appropriate for the same rules to be transferred to train traffic. If we want a cross-border rail service to Denmark and Sweden, we need to have common rules with them. We cannot have any particular Norwegian signalling system, width of railway or any other strange scheme. We need to have supranational rules that make it possible to cross borders. It is not undemocratic. The Workers' Party and the Centre are saying in the Hurdals platform that they will pursue an offensive railway policy and that they will strengthen the competitiveness of the railway. How is it possible to be offensive when the government conducts an isolationist railway policy? How is it possible to strengthen the competitiveness of the railway if they will only allow state train companies? The same batches consider that tenders are not a good instrument for either the State or the passengers. At the same time, the government parties know that the competition carried out by the Solberg government, on a very limited part of our grid, is intended to save the community for 12.4 billion. kr until 2028. So far, competition has saved us 1.1 billion. kr. This has been confirmed by the Minister of Transport himself. In addition, the competition leads to 250 more train departures each week without costing the community at any cost. There is hardly anyone who wants the state to operate our airlines. I think competition on our rails is just as natural as competition in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2669	Today, when we are dealing with the budget for the transport sector, it is of course interesting, and you can of course be a little rough and say that there is quite a lot we agree on. There are several of the posts I would like to say that I agree, which when representatives from the Workers' Party, and also from the Centre Party, have said that now we are going to build more rationally. I agree. But when «reasonable» is to reverse what has been good, then I wonder a little. Take, for example, the railway reform and the 12 billion. kr – which some people think is wrong, even though the Council of State has written in a letter that they have already saved 1.1 million. NOK and given 250 departures more per week: To reverse it and say it's unreasonable, is very special, because that's what you say. When the Center Party, as well as the Workers' Party, says they're going to build more rationally, they're going to build smarter, I agree. That is why the Progress Party has been very concerned with road reform and has seen that it has been smart. It has actually saved the state and society too much money; we can build more roads for the same money. And when the Labour Party and the Center Party say that you want to build more two/three-field road, it sounds like it's so very narrow, but that's not it, there's very little difference between it and narrow four-field. It's about building for the future. I'm starting to see the drawing. The last time the red-greens were in government, when Meltveit Kleppa was Minister of Transport, I remember building unreasonablely, so if you've learned from it now, it's very good. In my constituency of Westfold, rail tracks are still 12 to 13 years old and still not in use, because they were built unreasonablely. So that's good if you've learned from it. But it's very special that you cut into road safety in this budget. You cut into smaller projects. I can add – so boastful – that it is good that SV got in the race protection project; it is very good. So you say that it's road safety, and of course it is, but then in the same budget you cut in road safety measures, you're also very special. They also say that you should use the whole country. Pollestad was up and said it, and there's more from the Center Party said it. Yeah, just not the East, obviously. There is a sudden stop in the planning of InterCity Vestfoldbanen – there is a sudden stop. And you haven't realized that it's a pandemic; it's e.g. no package of measures for Torp airport. Where did it go? After all, the Central Party Kathrine Kleveland said that as soon as you entered the government, you had to get on the Westfold track. It's a full stop. According to my information, planning stops – in line with what it did the last time you were in government. In 2013, 47 million were spent. kr from the red-green government on the planning of all the tracks in Norway, and when it became a Solberg government with the Advance Party, around 2 to 2.5 billion were spent. kr annually in order to plan, in order to control transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2684	It is enough that most of the traffic will continue to be on the road network in the future. We are about to review a toll package today called the Bømlo package. The original Bømlo package was signed in Stortinget in 2009. In line with local policy decisions, the Ministry of Transport is presenting a proposal for revised financing arrangements. Good and forward-looking infrastructure and not least good roads are important for the development of our communities. In contrast, the benefits of reducing road users’ costs are increased, as a result of better performance. Higher road standards with more favourable gradients and better curve also provide a good climate effect. It is important to focus on infrastructure for local and regional jobs. The Bømlo package has so far achieved a much better road standard, with better appearance and reduced travel time. It has been important for a municipality with a high export right activity in maritime industry, aquaculture, both production and processing, and not least traditional fishing. A larger fishing port south of Bømlo is now to be developed and this revision of the toll package is important in order to achieve a coherent good road standard for that part of the municipality. Another important dimension in road construction is road safety. In the Hurdal platform, the government is very clear that a zero vision continues to work, with the aim of avoiding accidents involving fatalities and heavy road traffic damage. For the municipality of Bømlo, the Bømlo package has been important in the work on the zero vision. The municipality gained traffic security status in 2017. It is a qualification that is not only about road construction but also about planning and systematic work in several areas and levels in order to achieve higher road safety. The municipality has focused heavily on this work, and this year the municipality was assigned to the Year's Road Safety Municipality – the tenth prize that has been awarded. The toll project has literally counted its price – also in dollars for the inhabitants. However, there has been relatively strong local political outreach on this toll package. It is enough that the municipality has gone from being a municipality with consistently low road standards to getting consistently high road standards. However, in the context of the audit, there has been a debate on the toll collection system at the municipal border. It's a continuation of today's system. For this reason, it is an important point that the government in its budget increases the commuting deduction significantly. It will reduce the load for that group. Summer: This toll package has significant positive effects in many areas: better appearance, increased road safety, more workplaces – just more value creation. For this reason, it is good that a number of members of the Committee are in favour of the revised financial framework. In conclusion, the representative, Eskeland, said that one should look at Bømlo. As former spokesperson in Bømlo, I am in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2707	One can start by congratulating previous spokespersons in Bømlo and today's spokesman, Sammy Olsen, that they have now got to the Bømlo package. That's very good. I agree that they've gotten a lot down there. But I want to talk a little bit about the railway. There's a lot of talk about getting a more environmentally friendly traffic, and if there's something that can really be involved and do something for the development of railway traffic, it's getting speed on Bergensbanen. Now we have to stop planning, now we have to build. This applies to both the Ringerix track and K5. It is crucial to make Bergensbanen a real alternative to flights. I am pleased that we have now had enough resources to plan K5 as a comprehensive project, and not least that one is clear that one will plan all the way to Voss. When you listen to the previous government, it sounds like you've built an incredible amount of new paths and started a lot of projects. At least not for Hordaland, where there isn't actually a new project going on in the eight years that the government has been running. Planning is not enough, so a build is required. For this government, it is absolutely decisive that we do well life and health first. The worst roads are now the state roads. There are county roads that have major race challenges. One might take a case like the road along the Tokagilet in Hardanger, where there is a danger that it will crash from above as well as under the road. Then an actual priority must be given to such things. I have to say I'm reacting a little bit when the Right is trying to create a problem that we're reducing the ferry tariffs, because we can't do it for the speedboats. I agree, one should reduce the rates on the speedboats as well, but it won't be worse to pay for the speedboat because the ferries are cheaper. One gets to think of it as a step on the way to going, and that actually means a lot too many areas. I want to say something about the taxi industry. They say they have to do something. But it's weird -- if there's some challenges in an industry, you don't have to tear up the whole foundation. We see it, among other things. in our area now: one has looked out patient travel on offer so that patients are so insecure when they're going out and traveling, that they stop using patient travel. Of course, it's a little cheaper then, but that's not what people are excited about, instead of being able to see it all together, having a local taxi business that can carry these patients in a cool way as well. It had been cheaper for the community, and one had had a service that worked seven days a week and 24 hours a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2720	It was with interest that I heard the post to Right Trond Helleland, who referred to the majority comments from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV and claimed that we wrote about the reversal and about going back and waiting. I did a little search in the settings from the transport and communication committee and made some interesting findings. First of all, the terms to go back or wait are not used by anyone in the setting. But even more interesting was the results when I applied for reverses and reverses. Those terms add up to five times in the setting, and guess who used these terms most times. Well, it's the Right, who writes three times about reversal, two of them together with the Advance Party. SV has used it once, and only once has the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV used the term, and then it was about the reversal of the social welfare benefits, a sentence that I think stands out very well. So the claim from the representative of Greece is wrong, and once again we see a Right that is most concerned with political spin. So to the representative Eskeland, also she from the Right: she claims that there is not a single penny set aside for electrification of speedboats and associated infrastructure. I know that the fjord from Stord can occasionally be experienced quite deeply down to Rogaland, but it cannot be so deep that the representative has not received the Environment Directorate's recent allocation of 53 million. kr to cover the increased operating costs of electrification of fast boats in Ryfylke and Enova’s recent allocation of a total of 33 million. kr associated charging infrastructure. Here we see clear bets and effective grips to cut climate emissions. But perhaps the change of pace from the new government has been so great that it is difficult for the Right to stick with the turns? After eight years in government or as a supporting party for the government, we would think that the Progress Party had done something about the level of toll, but as the voters have revealed, the result was the opposite. The Transport Ministers of the Progress Party have turned one record after another in the collection of tolls. Now they are desperately trying to create the impression that they can remove all the country's tolls by paying toll companies' debts. However, tolls do not disappear without co-financing the future projects adopted by the majority of the population with tolls. So here either the Progress Party has to put in place the money for full funding, or they have to put off some of the potter projects that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2731	Norway had financial problems long before the Corona arrived. Year after year we have had an ever-increasing deficit in trade with other countries, except what we sell of oil and gas. Last year, Norway’s external trade deficit for the mainland amounted to a total of 312 000 million. kr. Instead, we talked about the rim and the village of Solan and Ludvig in Alvdal. If we're going to compare the deficit Norway has in trade with other countries for the mainland, it equals a thousand times the municipal budget of the municipality of Alvdal. It's clear that that can't continue if we're going to have a welfare in the years that come, if the sales of oil and gas gradually go down. This means that all areas of policy need to be focused on developing industry and having a good industrial policy that provides value creation domestically. That is why we totally disagree with the representative of Greece, who said earlier in the debate, ‘Then it’s quite secondary to who gets the money.’ I very much appreciate having Greece as a counter-debate, because he has a lot of mood, and he is often very honest and direct about what is Right’s policy. Here, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party separate as parties of fundamental right-wing layers as an asset. We believe that we should facilitate local and regional entrepreneurs even when we spend taxpayers' money on infrastructure in Norway. That's why I also tell the representative from the Progress Party that when we talk about what is smart construction, building sense, we have several points on our list that we include in that thinking. We want vocational training, so that we get more professional young people in Norway. We want inclusion in work. Take, for example: the South of the Inland, Kongswinger region. There it is 40 pst. of the working-age population outside the labour force. When we start major infrastructure projects, it's much smarter to do it in such a way that we get more people involved, and not least that we get to use local and regional companies that bring apprentices. It is a progressive policy for the future and which, in sum, is guaranteed to be positive for the Norwegian economy and for the development of society at large. That is why we are optimistic. We're going to speed up the field by field so that transport and communication policy will be linked to the overall goals of industry, of climate, so that we can get the whole people to work. That's what it has to be on one of those parts of the state budget with the most money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2742	In my previous post, I raised a few concerns. It was about the future of New Roads, and it was about the future of our main road network. I had hoped for a better answer, but it is clear that most representatives think it is here to talk about something else. The railway reform has been very clear, and there has been no reason why one should not be clear about what is happening to New Roads. The new government has not been shown to care about whether it costs some billions of additional costs to take a reform. Although the concept of reversal is foreign to the representative of Kalsås, the government appears as if reversal is job number one. In the case of the main road network, the representative Sande was up and said that someone should start building smarters. The definition of ‘smart’ was then clearly that one should build narrower, one should build smaller, and one should have more money left over as one that is likely to be spent on the county roads, and that can also be racial protection. SV was far on the way to confirming that opinion, and they even went further and wanted to cut out what was of motorways. I think that even though you have priorities in the county road network and in racial protection, a district does a bear service if you also start cutting out the tribal road network and making life even more difficult for business out in the districts. Then the government got an order, as the council says, but he won't say anything about what the result of it might be. I don't get any less worried about it. What I also wanted was to give some credit to the government. I am very pleased that they confirm Storting's decision to prioritize biogas, with a first-time distribution. We hope that we can jointly get the introduction of equal treatment of biogas in the toll stations and get the same level of biogas vehicle that we do on the zero-emission vehicle. Finally, I just want to encourage the government to also follow up on the rest of that decision, which is to treat biogas with zero emissions in a non-discriminatory manner, and that a person is able to obtain schemes that establish infrastructure and filling stations across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2757	Today, my 15-year-old son sits in digital home school, once again because of the coronary apathy. This is also true in many other schools today. The students have become accustomed to it, and both students and teachers have shown impressive efforts and an incredible willingness to adapt to that situation. But digital school at Teams has also shown us the shortcomings and gaps in our infrastructure. Too many students around the country do not have the same opportunity to participate in distance learning, because they lack a good Internet connection. Those who sit on bad networks will also get a worse profit, and it's unfair and creates a digital class distinction. In the Gudbrand valley, where I live, there is often a long way between the houses, and in some places it can cost up to 0.5 million. kr to get fiber away to the house. Then it is not profitable to expand, and then there are no commercial operators to take that job. Here the previous government has been behind for many years and has done too little. The expansion of broadband has gone too slowly. Therefore, municipalities and county councils have had to take part in the job and share responsibility, and this cannot be the case – it cannot be a municipal budget that governs this, here the state has to take a greater responsibility. We have now received a government that has greater ambitions for Norway. We want it to be a business life – and people can live a good life – throughout the country. Then more broadband must be built, not least in areas where it is not profitable. It is important for those students who are currently in digital home school, but it is also important for business, which is also dependent on good networks. Our ambition is clear, and it is evident in the Hurdal platform, where we state that access to the high-capacity Internet should be a right of equal power, and that by 2025 all households should have access to high-speed broadband. I am also pleased that, through the budget today, we show that we are taking this seriously and that we are strengthening the broadband effort by 100 million. kr. It's about building the country for our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2770	If you were on the ferry and looked at the swallows, would you have chosen buttercreme or brown cheese on your swallow? That's a hard question. But what might be a simpler question is whether you think that people who travel around and commute to work, to sports events or to other things in the districts, get decent ferry prices. For this government, the answer to that is simply: they do. That's exactly why we're showing ambitions from the start that it's going to be more reasonable to travel along the coast and along our fjords, because there's very much value creation out there too – where we live, and where we travel. Even if the swallow question is hard, we're still looking at the right-hand side a little bit on the right-hand side. I want to reflect on another thing. Nils Kristen Sandtrøen, my colleague in the transport committee, referred to Flåklypa. It can sometimes be a little bit like Flåklypa where we come from, with these winding roads that remind you a little bit of the stage that goes in a circle up the mountain, not only because the roads are narrow and invisible, but also because it's raging. Ras makes it unattainable for both family and business. It is impossible if the school bus can arrive safely, or if the cargo is in stock, it will come out at the right time. To bet more on racial protection is to bet on the whole country. I want to use the last minute to mention one thing that is close to our heart, that it should not only be safe, serious and reasonable to travel around for us, but that it should also be for our carriers, who run the heavy transport and make sure that the goods arrive, from production to shop or to other places where we're going to consume them. On our roads there should be safe, serious and decent working conditions. Our government is going to take a hard call with what is going to happen to unprofessional activity, and we're going to make it clear. This country should be safe for our drivers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2779	In North Norway we have fish, energy, minerals and nature. It's natural resources we're going to manage and exploit well, so that North Norway is involved in taking the lead and ensuring the country's future well-being. But if we're going to do it, we need a good and coherent infrastructure, so that people get safe, and business gets their goods out efficiently and quickly to the markets. For the past eight years, there has been a historic commitment to our country's transportation. The government's right-wing government has doubled the budget for transport, and it's given good results in North Norway. For it is Right in Government that has ensured that the construction of a new route to Tromsø can be launched next year, with this State budget, that the Halogaland road is finally realised, that Troms and Finnmark are even closer and better connected with the new E6 in tunnel through the Kvänang mountain, that Tromsø can negotiate a city platform, that New Roads are in the process of planning to improve the sections Nordkjosbotn-Hatteng and Olderdalen-Langslett, that new airport terminal in Tromsø is under construction, and that for the first time we have a state grant scheme for maintaining county roads of several billion SEK, so that the Seafood capital of Senja can finally get better county roads to transport its fish. I hope, for the benefit of North Norway, that the new government with the Workers' Party and the Center Party will not lower the ambition level set by the Right in the government regarding the development of infrastructure in the north, but I will be concerned when I see that in addition to the government budget, they will spend time in the government statement investigating New Vejer AS, so that important road projects can be put on hold, or will not provide clear answers as to when the negotiations on a city capital speech for Tromsø can be started. In the years to come, it is also necessary to focus on the realisation of new Northern transport projects, such as the new Kvålö link via Håkøya as part of the coastal road between Harstad, Finnsnes and Tromsø, the test centre for sustainable and green aviation with the professional environments in Tromsø as the starting point, and to keep the pressure on the state grant scheme for the maintenance of county roads, so that the maritime food industry in the north can continue its growth – to name a few projects. The right has invested in infrastructure in North Norway because we understand how important the part of the country is for future value creation and job creation in Norway. That is why we do not lower ambitions, and I hope that the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the government do not, even though we have received a signal that is not very good for the infrastructure in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2792	Eight years ago the plans for the Ringerix Railway were picked up again from the drawer in the Ministry of Transport. Red-green politicians who had toasted in champagne at Hønefoss station, did not come much further than that in eight years. It may not be so strange that people in the region of the rink stopped believing that the track is coming. For over a hundred years, the Ringerix Railway has been planned, but we've never been closer to getting the spade in the earth than we are now. The last Solberg government did, was add half a billion to the track in addition to an operational loan of one billion. It's good that the Big Government hasn't removed the credit or half the billion, but I'm excited about how long it is until we can get on the train in Hønefoss or Hole and be in Oslo in less than half an hour. Four months ago, in August, Masud Gharakhani said about the Ringeriksbanen: ‘We will not cooperate with MDG or compromise on the Ringeriksbanen Joint Project and the new E16. We insist that construction start must come as quickly as possible in 2022.» And then, in September: «From the Workers' Party we are crystal clear that the work on the Ringerix track will be started in 2022. We are the best guarantor for a quick start." We are many who know that the Workers' Party has so far not been a guarantor for anything related to the Ringerik Railway. The industry has invested for billions in the region, impact assessment is in place, trasé has been selected, the regulatory plan is there, operational credit has been granted, and New Veger has been given responsibility. What we're missing is start-up. We don't want to pick up the Ringerix track again from a drawer in the Ministry of Transport in four years' time. I notice that there is a lot of promise in the campaign that is not so important anymore, but I hope that this is the exception. The Workers' Party and the Center Party have promised to start in 2022, and we are looking forward to the Ringeriksbanen spade being in the ground in less than 376 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2814	It's going well towards the end of this debate, which is a little overture of what we're going to do in the next four years. There's been a little talk about broadband in some posts, and I'm very concerned about that. Now the new numbers showed 86 pst. access to 1 GB of fibre is available to the population of Norway. 90 pst. has access to broadband at 100 MB speed, and on March 13, 2020, something happened here in the country that went by a lot of houses, because it was the day after the country was shut down. Then Telenor opened its first 5G connection. Now there's 5G here in the hall. I took a speed check while I was sitting back here. On the Stortinget web there were 59 Mbits/s. On the 5G network that we have access to here in the hall, there was 1 250 Mbit/s. In 2024/2025, Telenor tells them to cover the whole of Norway with 5G. That means, good friends, that in all parts of the country there will be a super-fast broadband available if one is in the car, on the cabin, or if one is at home. In addition, the fiber expansion that goes at full speed comes. So I'm optimistic, and I think we're going to get this right. So to the representative Kalsås who had done the smart Google search: how many times have the government parties written that they want to implement stupid politics – that is. reverse? It was zero. Yes, of course, I wouldn't write that now we're going in the opposite direction of what's smart. I have so much faith in the government parties that writing that one will reverse, one does not, but that's what's in the plans. An example of this is the rather funny debate, the somewhat ghastly debate, which has arisen about the width of the road here in the country, where the government parties and the SV have cooperated to reduce the road project. I don't know, it's probably not because of road safety, but it might be to save some money. What I'm wondering now is if the government also plans to change the name of New Veier AS to the narrow path AS.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2825	The representative Erling Sande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2830	First, thank you for a good debate. There's a strong commitment to transport and communication, and that's good. Then there are a couple of statements that have been repeated and put forward as I know that I want to comment. The one thing is the following: less attention will be paid to road safety, bicycles and gangways and road maintenance. What's going to be shown is the decrease of 1.5 pst. to the item relating to national road investment. But the point is that such a post cannot be seen in isolation. The new government has increased transfers to municipalities and counties, there is a significant increase in the municipal and county budget, and it has produced results in the form of large road investments. Only Westland states have invested 470 million. kr more on road investment in the budget for the coming year. So it shows that road investments happen, even though the pot is isolated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2837	The representative Liv Kari Eskeland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2842	To those who talk hot about the railway: Me westerners are very positive about it. But I want to remind you that along the west coast, between our two biggest cities there, there's actually no railway going. Therefore, we need to go, and I'm assuming that when a person talks about the downscaling of the motorway project, they don't talk about the free E39, Hordfast and Rogfast. So to Kalsås: When I say that this government hasn't put another penny in the pot when it comes to a maritime zero-emission connection, it's like it hasn't actually done it. The Solberg government has invested a lot in green shipping, and I'm of course glad that a new government follows up the efforts we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2849	Representative Nils Kristen Sandrøen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2854	There are two things with broadband that the Right often skips. The first is that you have to have broadband to the mast to give 5G – the two things are inextricably connected. The second point is that broadband access is socially and geographically fragmented in Norway. It's true that on average it's becoming a pretty good percentage, but it doesn't help those who live in areas where there's no coverage, and in some parts of the country there's still 20 pst. by residents who lack high-speed internet. This is why this is an important social policy area for the Workers' Party, in order to ensure, as the representative said, equal opportunities for the children, opportunities for job creation throughout the country, both urban and rural. So we'll see more of that in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2861	It was when the representatives of the Right were up here and boasted of their bet on the Ringeriksbanen that I needed to take the floor. It's probably with the Ringerix track as it is with the Thrønderban, that the costs are left to the next government. I want to take us back to 2014. Then stood the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and Christian People's Party and promised full electrification of the Tronder and Meråker Railway, and it was to be finished in 2021. There isn't one pole yet. It's also signed an urban currency saying we should have two trains an hour by 2024. Before that government left, it turned out that there was not a train until 2027 with the plans made by the previous government. 14 bimodal trains are purchased, which is 40 pst. more expensive than an electric train, a cost that we could have saved if it had been electrified in time. Then I want to go back to something that's really in the same street, and this is about prioritizing maintenance over the four-field highway. In Trøndelag, Nye Veier has got a series of projects that they plan well, but they have it in other threads. In Rennebu, there's a bridge called Stavåbrua. There's now reduced prosperity, and it's been for half a year, because of crack formation in the bridge. It's E6 that connects north and south, so we can't get along with heavy transport, so we're going to have a four-field highway there in a few years. It tells me that it is far more important to prioritize the maintenance of what we have, before we build the four-field motorway, and at least when it is exposed due to increased costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2870	If there is one thing of a historical nature in the state budget of the year, it is decided to launch a fully-fledged concept evaluation for the North Norway Railway. There have been many historical parallels that have been drawn in this debate, projects that one has worked for and fought for for for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years. I want to return to 1921 when the Stortinget, in this room, decided for the first time that a tribal railway network would be built across the country, and where the first line of the North Norway railway was seen. The project went its way, at different times. Both in times of peace and war, a further North Norway project was built. But as we know, in the 1960s, it stopped for different reasons and has remained calm. The race for the North Norway track further from Fauske and northwards has not been ended for the people who live there, and has been kept alive for all these years, and now, finally, after special alliances between the left and right sides of Norwegian politics, between the SV and the Progress Party, and later on the Workers' Party and the Center Party, the Red and MDG, there is now a great deal of upsurge in initiating the concept-valuation process for the North Norway track with the aim of achieving it. Maybe it's never been more topical than now. We're all living in a time when we all know that at some point it's going to be huge disadvantages by being dependent on fossil emissions to transport their goods to the markets. For a region like North Norway, which is the most exportable region of all in Norway, it is obvious that if one is to get value from the fish, if one is to create values along the coast, it is to have zero emission solutions directly in the market completely fundamental. Simple calculations have been made to show that if only a fish gets a day earlier on the market in Europe, to Hamburg, a double value of the fish can be achieved. Only in itself will it be enough to justify this project. Then it will have significant effects on the whole region. This will bring the region closer together, bringing together North Norway in a completely different way than before, which reduces the need for flights, roads, road transport, dangerous roads. So this is an exciting new initiative that comes after SV took it up in government negotiations, and got the government involved in it, a fully-fledged concept-valuation for the North Norway track to form the starting point for decisions at the next NTP. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2885	It's great to hear that the Right is clear about the Ringerix track, and that they want to build it now. Imagine if they had been equally clear on the west side, on the K5 bit, where they couldn't even find money to plan the path part together with the piece of the road. Is there anything that is decisive for the Bergensbanen to have real competitiveness in relation to air traffic, it is that one sees the whole track below one, and also for the freight section, where one can really raise the capacity of freight and be a good alternative to all the trailers on bad winter roads in the West. Then you talk a lot about privatization and how much you save. When it comes to the railway bit, we actually have national audit reports that have looked at it, and that have shown that one can't point to savings after a ship ships Bane NOR and made other changes. And not enough, the former Minister of Transport had to admit that they didn't even create plans for how to measure if they've managed to save. They haven't found out if it can be measured, and how. So they've been a little cautious about saying everything a saver in this piece -- there were too many theoretical numbers, so it's hard to see how they land. I think you might want to look at a little bit of visibility here as well. I guess it was something like that one for the first time privatizing the road maintenance. Then it was very much to save the first rounds, but when the company started to see how they would cope with ignition, it quickly decreased. That's what I'm afraid will happen on the railway bit as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2892	This debate is in a way very much about the ideology and direction of the parties, and that is also what the budget is budgeting for. The debate has clarified a great deal. It is that even in the Storting there are still quite a number of people sitting and not knowing the difference between privatisation and outsourcing. So as far as I know, when you see the structure of the company on the railway, the council here is in the General Assembly. So it's owned by the Department of Transport. It's not privatisation. Let's keep it clear, so that you don't misunderstand. So I'll just comment a little bit. I'm a little fascinated by the Sandtroe when he's talking. I think he's good at talking, but there'll be some misunderstandings. When we are going to have larger transport projects, he says that it is important to get local business to take responsibility – I fully agree – and at the same time use more apprentices – that is quite right. So the company New Roads, in which the Workers' Party has not been particularly happy, has a much higher proportion of apprentices than the state road system has. That means that such a company can actually deliver much, much better than the state. So they've done it. On the Arendal–Tvedestrand parcel there was at least a proportion of apprentices over 20 p.m., and it is local. This is an example of follow-up, which perhaps more people in the public sector should follow. It would have been interesting if this debate had clarified a lot more around New Roads, because there is a lot of doubt about what to do with New Roads if there was a government change. It's been hard on the Center Party, and it's also on the Workers' Party. The only thing we've heard over the last few months, even before the government change, was that you were going to deal with the agreed agreements, but that doesn't say anything about the future. I think it's quite special to predict uncertainty about it. This follows the county councils; you cancel agreements and you say you are better at running it yourself, even though it may be worse or more expensive – it's obviously not that important. For the Progress Party, transportation is important. That is why we give priority to combined mobility. And yes, maintenance is important. That's why we've been working hard on maintenance for the last eight years, where we actually took down the chase. It didn't increase by 1 billion. kr each year, which last time fell red-green. It's interesting to discuss, and you'd like to find projects that have been exposed. It was also the Norwegian motorway plan that was launched by the Workers' Party in 1960. It took some time. It had to be a government shift to where the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party brushed dust from the highway plan and speeded up the road construction. It's about security and security for the future to provide people with mobility across the country. Yes, we're also going to bet more on county roads, but then the county councils have to take responsibility. We know that there are great, great variations in what the county councils prioritize when they get their budgets. Therefore, the Progress Party wants to take greater responsibility and we believe that we need to take another effort on export and commercial routes, and we are in favour of a binding split without the use of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2910	The representative Mona Fagerås has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2915	What made me take the floor at the end was Trond Helleland, the representative of Right-wing Transport Policy, who claims several times in the debate that building four-field highways is more road-proof than two- and three-field roads. I think he's going to come up with something more about that, because where we really have road safety challenges, we're on the county roads. It is 44 000 km of county roads which have an increasing backlog on maintenance and which account for more than 70 billion. kr. Approximately the same amount is needed for racial protection on exposed roads, according to the National Racial Protection Group. What SV will highlight in the debate is that we need to spend money on environmentally friendly transport solutions and secure the dangerous and narrow roads in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2922	The representative of Trond Helleland has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2927	If you have middle parts on a road, it's safer than a road without middle parts. And then you can have two and three-field paths with the midpoints. That's good, but three-field roads are often such that one can pass in one field, and there's rarely one middle part. The main point is that if a person is to build in a roadside way, he must build in such a way that he cannot have a meeting accident. It does not initially get one on the four-field motorway or on the four-field road. If SV is going to go into this with gravity together with the government parties, I think they should look at the concept with narrow four-field road. That's something we talked about many years ago, and it's been built on some sections. It's considerably more reasonable than a wide four-field road, but it's much more roadworthy, so it's just a little tip, now just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2932	The representative Tom Kalsås has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2937	The representative Stordalen points out that New Veier is better at apprentices than the state, and then it is in his place to show that New Veier is an entire-time state company. So saying that they're better than the state, it's probably going to be a little bit weird. So I just want to remind you that in the budget that we are adopting here, we are passing on the appropriations to New Roads, just as it was proposed by the former government. In addition to that, we also have a decision today that will ensure that New Veier is now also given the responsibility for a railway extension, so I don't think the representative Stordalen needs to be afraid of Nye Veier. And then one doesn't get away from that Go-Ahead, who is now running on the Sørlandsbanen, is a British private company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2944	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 7-10.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2961	No one has asked for the floor. This means that today's map is fully debated, and voting will be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2983	The cancellation is then ready to vote on the matters on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e2992	Case No. 1 is the third time that a legislative act has been dealt with and is subject to the rule of law of 22 with the opinion adopted at the meeting of the European Parliament on 17 December 2021. It is contested by the legislative decision with the acknowledgment adopted by the second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e3004	The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved by the third reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e3013	Case No. 2–4 is the second time that laws are dealt with by law and apply to legal acts 29–31. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e6292	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e7866	During the debate, Trond Helleland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «On top. Item 72 is granted 450 million. crowns of the collective societies as compensation for reduced traffic resulting from the pandemic.’;» [[new]] The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e8873	The Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e8885	It turns out that several have voted incorrectly. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9040	During the debate, Mr Halleland put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to replace the toll share of the revised Bømlo package in Westland by State resources.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9059	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘III Power to oblige the State to undertake investment projects The Board agrees that the Ministry of Transport:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9177	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9228	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it and the Greens will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9254	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9273	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2–5, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right proposal No 6, by Rauand Ismail on behalf of the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to remove the requirement to reduce tolls in order to obtain access to funds through an additional agreement to urban growth agreements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9300	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a comprehensive structure for the fare and discount structure for ferry operations, both on national and county roads.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9317	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 to 5, from the right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the competitive disadvantages of island communities with access to speedboats only can be levelled off in relation to island communities that are now suffering reduced transport costs in the form of reduced ferry prices and come back to Stortinget with a case in the revised national budget 2022.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government at the latest in the revised national budget for 2022 to explain how county and national road connections are to be compensated for the additional costs of placing zero-emission vessels on order.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal for further consideration of U-864 based on the professional evaluation of the Committee set up.’ Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e9346	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the ferry companies with a view to making the temporary ticketing system under the pandemic permanent.’; Red, Left and Green have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e12031	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e12050	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party proposal No 2, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government of the EEA Committee to take the initiative of repealing the decision on the incorporation of the acts included in the EU railway package IV.’; The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e12076	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Representative proposal 13 S from the Björn Momnes, Geir Jørgensen and Sofie Marhaug to repeal the decision to include the acts included in the EU rail package IV — is not adopted’. [[2021-2022]] The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e12100	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14304	The President proposes that the proposal for a representative be sent to the Labour and Social Committee. The representative, Mr Dagfinn, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14311	We continue to ask that the proposal be dealt with under point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14316	Several have not asked for the word for explanation of vote, and there is a vote over the procedure. Alternatively, there will be a vote between the President’s proposal and the proposal of the Progress Party on the procedure under Rule 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14330	Further references were made: 4th@item: inlistbox Representative proposals by the depositors Sylvi Listhaug, Hans Andreas Limi, Marius Arion Nilsen, Tor André Johnsen, Morten Wold and Frank Edvard Sve to reduce the rental of Norwegian electricity customers (Document 8:53 S [[181]] [[2021-2022]] Onest. : To be sent to the Energy and Environment Committee. 5th@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Financial Undertakings Act and the Securities Fund Act and consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Joint Committee on the inclusion of the Regulation [[182]] [[priority debt securities]] [[2021-2022]] Onest. : to be sent to the Financial Committee, except B, which shall be sent to the Financial Committee, which shall submit its draft mandate to the Foreign and Defence Committee for an opinion prior to its appointment; 6th@item: inlistbox Amendments to the Financial Corporations Act, etc. [[183]] [[Implementation of EEA law, pension account]] and consent to the approval of Decision No 4 of the EEA Joint Committee. 54/2021 of 5 February 2021 concerning the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive [[2021-2022]] Onest. : to be sent to the Financial Committee, except B, which shall be sent to the Financial Committee, which shall submit its draft mandate to the Foreign and Defence Committee for an opinion prior to its appointment;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14349	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. The representative, Mr Sylvi Listhaug, has asked for the floor before the sitting, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees that the representative is given the floor and thus gives the floor to Mr Listhaug, who has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes – also according to Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14359	Thank you for the opportunity to ask this question, and thank you to the Minister of Finance for being there to answer it. After the government has failed most people by not setting up enough to relieve people in the power crisis, the confusion is now also total among owners and employees of companies that are severely affected by coronary restraints. Many are completely dismayed, and tomorrow, December 21, the deadline expires to withdraw the cancellation notice. I record that there are now two days off, after the agreement with SV, but if the companies have not received information about what the payroll scheme contains in detail, many will still go into the Christmas holidays without knowing about and when they are going back to work. A decision in the Stortinget, where all details are known, will provide the necessary security for the companies. On Friday the Council of State was called up by Stortinget to inform them about the content of the compensation scheme, but we did not get a response to the questions that were asked, among other things. why you added that it was either everyone or no one was going to be permitted. This will lead to more than necessary permitting. We were also not given detailed information on how this scheme will turn out. However, what we were given was several references to EEA legislation, and the impression that the Council of State created was that the EEA Agreement imposes great limits on how well this compensation scheme can be. The impression we got back with after Friday was that the action room was fully used by the government. The Minister of Finance said on Friday 17 December in Stortinget, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘but all the other parties who have spoken have indicated that they wish to have a pay subsidy scheme, which also respects the international framework we are bound by, that we must not make a system that appears even better in the Storting but, when it comes to the matter, cannot be implemented. [[...]] That is why we have also had the rounds, more informally, with ESA, to ensure that you are within the framework that allows you to get it through in practice as well. I am pleased about that." Furthermore, the Minister of Finance went through the scheme before concluding: ‘That is the framework of the scheme: i.e. NOK 3000 in input value and NOK 30,000 in max. The reason we have come there is that it has also been agreed with ESA earlier today in an informal process, in order to know that the scheme is not compromised if you go too high." The councils were even clearer on the NRK Dagsrevyen. The challenge is simply that ESA does not agree with the Minister of Finance's opinions. The Chief Communications Officer Jarle Hetland of ESA is opposed to NTB incomprehensible to the government's interpretation on Sunday 19 December. He pointed out that on 18 November a new temporary framework for State aid was put in place for covid-based enterprises in the EEA countries. He said, ‘This gives countries a relatively wide framework to support businesses and their employees’ – up to 80 pst. of compensation of employees, including employers’ contributions, under State aid law. The amount of pay each individual has is irrelevant. He also rejects the fact that EEA legislation requires either everyone to be permitted or no one to do so. These countries are free to decide for themselves. The finance minister claims that ESA has changed its view. This refuted Hetland. There have been three main challenges with the government's proposal for a scheme where there does not seem to be coverage in order to push ahead with EEA legislation. The first is that there is a ceiling on the plan that makes all the large actors with many employees not benefit from the plan. These have thousands of employees who feel that everyday life is being torn away under their legs for the third time. We have to stop talking about hard work, because it's basically the same thing that happens over and over again. The party of progress believes that the roof must be removed. Secondly, the companies must leave either all or none of them. For the Progress Party, it is more important that we keep as many jobs as possible, rather than that the pay support scheme is not used because we do not have the opportunity to keep all employees at work. The holdings themselves must determine the number to be permitted and retain as much as possible. Thirdly, the maximum amount now increased to NOK 40000 per employee does not affect all enterprises. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that the maximum amount has to be removed, as ESA permits. On the basis of the State Council's statement last Friday in Stortinget, and what has come from ESA information, will I ask the following questions: Has the State Council misinformed the Stortinget and incorrectly used the EEA Agreement to restrict the possibilities of an acceptable wage support scheme? Can the Council explain what action room Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14389	The President will then give the floor to the Council of State Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who also has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14394	First, I would like to explain the proposal for a new wage support scheme and the process around it. On Friday 10 December, it was decided that the government would establish a new wage support scheme in dialogue with the social partners. Work was started on the same day. On Friday 17 December, I presented proposals for arrangements here in Stortinget – and in subsequent press conferences. The purpose of the scheme is to provide support to enterprises which have been severely affected by the recent restrictions on the protection of infectious diseases so that they can keep their employees in work. There is a system for all employees in the company. It has been suggested that it should be an alternative to permitting, so that businesses can choose either wage support or permitting. The labour side has been particularly concerned about this, in order to protect the most vulnerable in the workplace. The design of the compensation scheme emphasises that the scheme is targeted and effective and provides the best incentives for activity. It has also been stressed that it should be within the framework of State aid law and that abuse should be avoided. It must also be enforceable for the tax rate, which is to develop, manage and control the scheme. The aid shall help to cover the wages and salaries of workers on whom the enterprise would otherwise leave or be terminated. It is a fundamental principle of State aid law that subsidies should not be granted to employees that are otherwise viable. For example, if turnover has fallen by 50 pst, it is reasonable to assume that the company has the basis to pay half of its employees itself. The state aid must then be directed towards the remaining half, which would otherwise have lost the job. This is fundamental to the interim state aid legislation for the covid pandemic, which I referred to in my post on Friday. Chapter 3.10 of this legislation states that the State may cover up to 80 pst. of the gross wages and salaries of those who would otherwise have lost the job. Discovering who else would lose the job is demanding. It is considered impracticable that enterprises using the scheme should identify who else would terminate or leave the scheme. Consequently, the proposed solution does not specify it. Instead, an aid amount is granted to all employees of the company, but the aid may still not exceed 80 pst. of the gross wages and salaries of those who would otherwise have lost the job. Here we have to make some assessments and calculations that underpin the fact that total support to the company does not exceed 80 pst. of the gross wages and salaries of those who would otherwise have lost the job. That's what we've been discussing with ESA today. In the government’s proposal, the support formula is based on the turnover case of those affected by the disease protection measures. The turnover must have fallen by at least 20 pst. In order to be supported. The aid amount per employee at 20 pst. sales cases are set at NOK 3000 in the government proposal. The amount is a balance between providing support and avoiding excessive adaptation problems. The higher the amount, the more attractive it becomes for enterprises to lower their turnover to the limit of the scheme. The maximum amount of aid of NOK 30000 was calculated from the SSB salary statistics for the most affected sectors, e.g. accommodation and service, and for less than 80 pst. of gross wages and salaries of these industries. I have always been concerned about being on the conservative side and did not want to create a system where the companies were in danger of having to repay the aid if we broke the State aid rules. This is why we have had an informal process with ESA in parallel, in order to reconcile that the scheme is not compromised if we go too high. With the suggestions made by the government on Friday, I was sure about this, as I informed the Stortinget about. Based on the dialogue with ESA over the past few days, the Ministry has come to understand that the legislation provides a slightly greater scope for action than the assessment we had after last week’s meetings. After this weekend's dialogue and today's meetings, we think it is possible to propose new measures: that we can go higher at the maximum level without breaching State aid legislation – the maximum limit proposed by the government on Friday that we can make it possible for the enterprise itself to choose the basis of comparison, between the same month two years ago or the average for October and November this year In addition, I have had a constructive telephone conversation with the ESA President today and have been confirmed that it is a main priority for ESA to set up a good order. However, I have also been confirmed that the 80 pst. limit of the temporary State aid code is to be considered absolute. Finally, the whole point of this scheme is to create security — more security for the workers who are in an unsafe situation and more security for businesses. That is why I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are also now supporting together under a new pay support scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14422	The President will allow the other party groups to have the floor once each, with a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, and that the questioner and the Council of State will have the same thing at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14427	Thanks to the Minister of Finance for another presentation in Stortinget on this pay support scheme. I want to start with the realities. The Minister of Finance said last Friday: ‘The reason we have come there is that it has also been agreed with ESA earlier today in an informal process, in order to know that the scheme is not compromised if you go too high.’ It is not an abnormal sentence or a reservation for a Minister of Finance. On the contrary, it is quite natural to note that one must be sure that the arrangements put in place for business do not result in a situation in which it can subsequently cause disadvantages to businesses. There I just want to say that I think the Minister of Finance well underlined what I think is absolutely necessary and right that finance ministers should express. Then I hope that it will not be a new normal thing for the opposition to use § 54 to travel debates in Stortinget. There's a lot of other, nice ways to do it. I am also concerned that one should handle these kinds of things with cleanliness and properness. Firstly, we have stated that we believe that we need to go hand in hand. I mean, today's government is delivering on it. On 10 December the government announced that it would seek a wage support scheme. Now, ten days later, there is an agreement, an agreement between the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV on a pay support scheme that, in my opinion, will meet the companies in a good way, and also have a sense of solidarity that it must deal with everyone. I think that's quite natural. We have a safety net for those who want to choose to permit through a good permitting scheme, but what's in the scheme as it's been presented now seems to be good. There is no doubt that there are any limitations to the scheme proposed, and the Minister of Finance again explains it. Not least, the 80 % limit is absolute. So I can't see that there's anything wrong in what the finance minister has explained to Stortinget. On the contrary, I think that is quite a natural clarification from the Minister of Finance. I hope, and see in the meeting, that we will get the pay back scheme that has been presented this afternoon, in place, and that we can get on with it. The starting point should now be that there is a great deal of security for businesses to be able to use the pay support scheme as an alternative to avoiding lay-offs, keeping people in work, ensuring their skills, ensuring their activity and making sure that they have some meaning in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14445	Last week, Nav received 14,800 perm notices. There were mass redundancies for 400 people. In four days, it's Christmas. Employees and businesses are now in a very desperate situation. They're frustrated, they're tired, and they're angry. And at the top of what is a hesitant, backward and chaotic handling of the financial support schemes, where the government had to be pushed into favour of a wage support scheme, this last case has created enormous frustration and great despair among both employees and employers. Then it is good that a pay support scheme was finally put in place. It is not good that there has been an infinite uncertainty about how the scheme should work, who can receive support, and when this is finally resolved. The scheme was presented on Friday evening, it was strongly criticised, and it quickly became clear that the social partners did not agree on the scheme. Then yesterday evening changes were announced, and we were just told that the government parties have agreed on adjustments in the arrangement with SV. It remains to be seen whether this leads to a decision in Stortinget before Christmas, but I believe that this process has been unsustainable for all those who operate and work in the industries that are most severely affected by the measures taken to prevent infection. We continue to get adjustments and news on current bands. This has been like a painful minute-by-minute series that everyone hopes to finish before Christmas. This is a result of the fact that the government has not had sufficient control of this situation, and that the government has insisted on talking to SV about this, but not before now, despite our many invitations to a broad settlement, which I still believe would have been best for the peace and security of those affected. SV said it was as late as yesterday that it was not urgent to have a pay back scheme in place before Christmas. But it is good and necessary that the finance minister now comes to the Stortinget to clarify the statement he came into this room last Friday, because what is right is incredibly important right now, for now there are two problems and both of them have to be solved. The council gave the impression that 30,000 per employee was the highest you could go. ESA says that's not right. Now we've got a fascination, since they've adjusted the arrangement. It is good to confirm that it was not a final limit. Due, inter alia, to: It is also extremely important for employers to be given the opportunity to combine wage support with leavencies. It has unfortunately been rejected by the government and SV that they should be allowed to do so, and it seems to the Right that it should be cleaned up. Because this isn't a game, these are ordinary people's jobs. Next time, I strongly recommend to the Minister of Finance not to blame for the ESA, the EEA Agreement or the EU when the truth is that the government itself has made a choice, set a maximum limit of 30000, and let LO decide that it is not possible to combine wage support and leavencies. That that is what is happening, at least it has become quite clear now, with the new agreement with SV. It is good that the Minister of Finance finally came to Stortinget to explain the government's policy, but I hope this is a lesson for the Minister of Finance later. Politics and words from this pulpit have consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14464	I will be allowed to thank the Minister of Finance for a good presentation. Yes, the representative Bru is absolutely right, this isn't a game. There is also no play and pingpong in the staging room. This is bloody serious for all those who are affected. That is why I am very pleased that the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party have today come up with a solution, and I want to praise SV because they have been quick and effective to get a good solution. It's actually very well done by this government to get such a scheme in place in nine days. It also says a little about the seriousness of the matter. I don't know about any other governments that could do the same. The previous government spent a month and a half wondering if they were going to have a payroll scheme at all, before they made a scheme that no one could use. I think it is positive that one today opens up improvements in the system, and in particular I would like to point out two. One is that the reference basis is made more flexible. This means that Britannia Hotel in Trondheim, in my home district, has already withdrawn their leave and wants to use the pay back scheme instead. The second is that the two-day time limit for drawing leaves is extended, so that companies will have a little more time to decide whether they will be included in a pay-as-you-go scheme. In my view, the Minister of Finance has not misinformed anything. On the contrary, he has been very pleased to come to Stortinget when Stortinget asks for it. He has given general statements from this pulpit that the process is continuously reconciled with ESA, and that's the natural thing to do. Then the representative chose Listhaug to interpret it as saying in Stortinget that NOK 30 000 was a maximum thank-you, but he did not say that. What he said was that it was voted to know that one did not go too high, but he never said that it was the maximum roof. What Listhaug does is to interpret, and that's allowed. It is allowed to interpret, but it is her own interpretation of the matter, and we know that she rarely interprets matters in favor of today's government. Then I have to be allowed to say in the end that there is a party in the hall that is allowed to disagree and that there are other models that are better than the one that is now being chosen. That's the law, that's the law. I have all the respect that people are calling for that, and that's quite fine, but I'm very pleased with the solution that the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14481	For over a year, SV has called for a wage support scheme to be set up to keep people working in the pandemic – and the economic consequences of it – that we have been in for almost two years. This also led the Stortinget to decide in January a year ago that the then bourgeois government should return to the Stortinget with a payroll subsidy scheme to ensure that it is done – the workers, the workers who have to keep their job. Nevertheless, a most weakened system was put forward by the bourgeois government. It meant getting a pay-as-you-go scheme to take them back, but not to avoid permitting. Today, in today's situation, we can, after all, conclude that we would be in a completely different place if the bourgeois government had spent the time preparing the scheme requested by the Stortinget. The right side makes itself high and dark in this room now, and it has done so for several weeks, but the reality is that the arrangements left by the government have not been adapted to the situation in Norway today. We have inherited a compensation scheme for business that has largely resulted in huge transfers of funds to companies that have made a great deal of profits and that have not had the huge financial losses of some other, smaller enterprises over the past two years, enterprises that have been very close to the compensation system. So there has been no pay support scheme either. So it is overtime that there is such a scheme, and after SV entered into this now, we also get a better order than the government provided for the Stortinget and the media on Friday. We then believed that there was a greater room for action than the Minister of Finance presented, and it turned out that it was. Over the past few weeks and weekend, I also, like very many others here, talked to the desperate people in hard hit industries. The system that was presented on Friday did not meet well enough to help them. Now we've taken hold. The amounts of aid shall be deferred for those with a low and high turnover, the deadline for withdrawal of the permits, and the Government shall revise and adjust the arrangements in dialogue with the parties and return to Stortinget with an up-to-date scheme, including a revision of the maximum amount, in January. Finally, tomorrow we will also decide to grant 500 million. kr into the municipal compensation scheme. With that, you immediately get money out to the municipalities in order to be able to relieve the companies locally in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14496	Thank you, Minister of Finance, Vedum, who is coming to Stortinget once more. We appreciate that. But if the government had not been so in the back of presenting crisis measures as the trade union movement has demanded, maybe we could stop taking exactly this way. It's been more than nine days. I have not intended to apologize for any previous civil government, but more than nine days have passed since the Stortinge knew that we had to take targeted measures for those most affected by the crisis, namely workers. On 29 November Stortinget decided to cancel his own Christmas ounce. Since then, we have known that we need to do something to secure incomes and jobs in nightlife, cultural and travel life, in cooperation with the parties, and come to Stortinget with it. Looks like the government's been since then. Two weeks ago, 7 December, the Vedum Council and the government presented several financial measures, but said nothing about the compensation scheme, which was the main requirement of the LO. On 10 December the government finally started work on the scheme. On Friday evening, the government presented the main features of this pay support scheme, and immediately it became clear that the government's projected wage support scheme was not good enough. When the State Council Vedum presented the scheme in this Chamber on Friday, it was given the impression that the limits on aid per employee were governed by the EU. I assume that the Council of State sees the problem in, and in the extension of, the need to inform and involve the Storting better in the design of the financial measures. I would like an assurance from the Council of State that the Ministry of Finance will ensure that the scope of action in the EEA Agreement is not only explored, but also fully challenged and exploited in the implementation of all necessary emergency measures for workers and businesses in Norway. This was the Central Party, SV and Red – including the Minister of Finance and my good party colleague Bjørna Moxnes – together in an overall note in the Finance Committee in February. Some perm alerts have been withdrawn, and it is a pleasure. The companies also have a responsibility not to send people on leave. But that the system has taken so long, may have done great damage, for some irreparable. Red tends to contribute constructively to improving and clarifying the crisis mechanisms. We have said that we are happy – extra happy! – waits for Christmas washing, but also for Christmas as long as it helps to mitigate the crisis for ordinary workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14511	I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance for an orientation – and for a precise orientation. That's not what we got on Friday. Then there was much more to an approximate review of a pay support scheme. And even though the wording that came from the position is that they say that it was ‘agreed with’, there is no doubt that the impression that was given was that this was voted in such a way that it was the limit of what we could do within the EEA. So to the very content of the wage support scheme that we were presented to: it got violent criticism, and immediately, also with demonstrations on Saturday, and a criticism that has been throughout the weekend. First of all, there is the fact that you cannot have both wage support and leavement at the same time. Because you have an enterprise how much of the turnover depends on a seller’s alcohol — it’s not allowed anymore — it’s difficult to maintain the operation without anyone picking it up. There are many who are in situations where that flexibility should be there, including in the system that is now in place. So I'm glad you've increased the ceiling from 30,000 to 40,000, and you've also increased from 3,000 to 4,000, but the flexibility that we need is still a problem. In agreement with SV today, it is finally – finally – put in place that one will also distribute money through the municipal system, through the municipalities, at the new aging tomorrow. It's called on the left from December 2nd, that we should do the same thing now that we did last year. Last year, in its last decision, the blue-green majority gave 250 million. kr to enterprises through the municipalities. It worked, they came out in 14 days. Then I am happy that we now also get the same arrangement, so that we can get the funds out where it is needed as soon as possible. Then the result will be in what too awfully many are a very difficult situation – business owners, those who work, those who now both have to pay electricity bills and celebrate Christmas – if with this improvement we are able to get fewer permits, or if it really isn't the big effect of just the grips that are done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14525	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a much more precise orientation today than the last time he was in this Chamber. To the representative of Aasland, who wonders whether it will be a new normal use of the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure, I have to say that it depends entirely on how the government deals with the crises we face. So far, I have to add, it has been far from impressive. The representative Arnstad stated that my interpretation was the basis for this. Well, now I've noticed that both NHO and Works have had exactly the same interpretation that the undersigned has. The NHO has repeatedly been out asking for the maximum amount to be raised, but the Ministry of Finance was clear that the wage support scheme would then stop the EEA State aid legislation and that it was no longer going on. Working life director Nina Melsom of the NHO said, ‘We are very surprised if this turns out not to vote.’ Ivar Horneland Kristensen from Working followed up and told NTB that the matter was surprising. He said, "We got the same message. That Vedum owes to the EEA is strange.’ The situation is difficult for many. For many people it is now about being allowed into Christmas. It comes to the top of the power crisis, rising food prices, rising interest rates and high fuel costs. So too many people now start to clear up. So it's important to say that there's nothing that has been presented to the Storting. All details of this scheme are not yet known, and it is incredibly important that it be made available to the enterprises that now count on the buttons whether to withdraw the permit alerts or not. Then the question is when this will come to Stortinget and be presented there. I still interpret the Minister of Finance so that you have to choose either wage support or leave. Then the main problem is still present, which will mean that more than necessary is likely to be permitted. I'm recording that the Council of State Vedum talked about him being on the conservative side. I would say that the 'conservative side' is creative. He actually pushed ahead of the EEA Agreement because there was criticism of the scheme, and I think that is critical. Then I also register that SV, the support wheel of this government, is now happy to set up, whether it is a power crisis, a pay-as-you-go scheme or everything. It's going to commit when we see what the consequences are. I think it is strange that SV does not ensure that a decision is made on this before Christmas, so that the companies know all the details. But all in all: I think it is nice that the Council of State has been here, but I still think what he said to the Stortinget the last time was not accurate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14546	What's good, if you abandon party politics, is that this time it seems like it's a total increase that is in favour of a new wage support scheme, and that it's also a government that has a desire to introduce it. We haven't had that before in the pandemic. If you peel away all the discussions, that's what's the substance. Then there is someone who has a desire to doubt that there will be a pay support scheme, but there is now a clear majority between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV that it will be. Then there is no need to spread unrest around it to those businesses and workers who are now considering what to do, because now we know that there will be a majority for a new wage support scheme. It gives business owners more predictability, and it can give more predictability to the workers in enterprises who are at the time of the election whether to leave or provide wage support. When we peel away the second, this is all about: how can we make things a little less difficult for people? How can we make it a little less difficult for businesses? It is important for the government that when we come up with our proposals, with our assessments, we must be sure that we will not be stopped next time by the agreements we are part of. I was challenged – not in the main hall, but directly, as I have a few times, after a demonstration – and I understand the despair of those who were at the demonstration. They thought you'd get 100 pst. pay cover. So I brought it up again today with the ESA president and I asked him, is the 80 percent limit the way we understood it? Then the ESA President said verbally, and confirmed in writing, in a small interview, that it is absolute. When we're going to make the arrangements we're going to, we also have to know that we're not going to be stopped in the next round. It is the responsibility of the government when we present our proposals and our assessments. That is what I said on Friday, too, that there are assessments and that we have had a conservative and cautious approach. If there's one room I have great respect for, it's the big room, with the popular discretion and just the discussion we have between position and opposition, because it makes arrangements better. They're getting more quality assured, and in sum we're getting better out of it. I want to thank SV for the fact that SV has chosen to think that it is important that we get security around the schemes as quickly as possible, because it provides security for both workers and businesses, and I am pleased that there is a consensus in this Chamber that we want a new wage support scheme. There's a little bit of different opinions about what's best, but now it's a majority, and we think we can get a system that can help a lot of businesses and make everyday work a little better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-20.ana.ud110e14559	Then the word change is changed, and the president will clarify that the second paragraph of Section 54 is strictly handled. It has been and will be done, but the joint is to be used in special cases where there are no other appropriate means of resolving questions in a timely manner. This is particularly true for example. session closure just before Christmas or just before summer. One must not think that this is normal; this will be handled strictly. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
