ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e107	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Elise Björnebeck-Waaagen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting continues, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e189	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e205	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e222	The President will arrange the debate in the following way: 3 minutes for each party group, and no lines will be given. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e229	The attitude of the Presidency concerns the establishment of a selection to investigate the activities of the National Audit Office. The Presidency announced this in the Inner East. 271 S for 2018–2019 on the reduction of the sample to investigate the control functions of the Stortinge, the Harberg Committee, which delivered its report to the Presidentship of Stortinge on 1 February of this year. The proposal in the vote concerns the reduction of the sample and the mandate of the sample. In line with previous practice, it is proposed that the Presidency be empowered to appoint the members of the panel, to provide remuneration for non-Gross Representatives and to make any adjustments to the mandate if necessary in the course of the work. There are several reasons why a sample should be set up to investigate the activities of the National Audit Office now. It's been 17 years since the current law on the Riksrevision was passed. The law has the background to the investigation of the Frøiland Committee in Document No. 14 for 2002–2003. This sample assessed some aspects of the activities of the National Audit Office, but a broader and more detailed investigation of the activities was not carried out. Before that, some aspects of the activities of the Riksrevision were assessed by the Ingvaldsen Committee in Document No. 7 for 1972–73. The size has not recently provided an overall evaluation and investigation of the activities of the National Audit Office. This is what is now being proposed. In addition, the Harberg Committee will address several issues relevant to the Riksrevision. A selection to discuss the Riksaudition will complete this work. The Presidency proposes that the selection to investigate the activities of the National Audit Office be based on the treatment of the report by the Stortinge of the Harberg Committee. It is proposed that a broad mandate be given to the sample, with the overall aim of a comprehensive review and evaluation of the activities of the National Audit Office. On this basis, the sample may propose changes to the applicable law and instructions, or a new law. The proposed mandate is divided into five main items, comprising: how the National Audit Office carries out its social mission and its effects audit activities and the various forms of audit access to information and processing; institutional and administrative conditions relationship to other legislation As regards the composition of the sample, account has been taken of the fact that the activities of the National Audit Office raise political and constitutional issues, as well as professional issues in a number of areas. It is proposed that the Presidency be empowered to appoint the sample leader and sample members, based on the fact that the sample has four to five members with a political background and five to six members with relevant professional expertise. The investigation proposed will involve extensive work. It is therefore proposed that the sample be given a deadline to deliver its nomination to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy by 1 September 2023 at the latest. The Riksrevision is the largest and oldest control body in Stortingen and is a central component of Stortingen’s control of the administration. I also refer to the vote and recommend the unanimous recommendation of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e271	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e288	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e295	The background to the case is the 2017 request decision: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the liability of lone minor asylum seekers, the care they require of these children and the requirements for the reception of single minor asylum seekers.’ In the proposal, the Ministry of Justice and Defence proposes amendments to Section 95 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The proposal is aimed at legislating the responsibility of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs for the care of lone minors living in recipients of asylum. Furthermore, it is proposed that the detailed provisions on accommodation and care for this group be laid down in the Regulation. It is noted in the proposal that the decision of the Storting does not lead to the level of the offer. As far as the rapporteur is concerned. The Labour Party believes that the bill does not follow up the decision. We record that the department considers that the decision does not give any guidance as to the level of the offer. We believe it was clear from the position that the background to the proposal, among other things. were concerned about reports from the receptions of self-harm and suicide attempts among lone minors, and that the situation showed that the follow-up of minor asylum seekers was too poor and that action had to be taken. In addition, the wording of the decision itself clearly states that what is to be legislated is the care required for these children and the requirements to be imposed for reception with single minor asylum seekers. We believe that interpreting this as something other than the fact that the majority of people wanted to legislate on the level and requirements of the content of care, cannot be understood as anything but a deliberate reluctance to enter this topic by the government. The Government proposes that detailed requirements for the content and level of care be laid down in regulations, including staffing, competence and design requirements. The hearing note shows that the intention of such a regulatory attachment would be to regulate the current standard and the applicable requirements for care. In our view, a status quo regulation is not a satisfactory follow-up to the request decision. The Labour Party believes that there are good reasons why the responsibility for caring for single minors over the age of 15 should remain with the Foreign Affairs Directorate. It is shown, among others: that UDI has had many years of experience in developing and operating a receiver specifically adapted to single minor asylum seekers. These are competences which should be further built on in order to further strengthen the care of this group. We're not satisfied with the government's follow-up here. On this basis, the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, proposes the following: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under public care are properly provided in the light of child-care assessments.’ In this I address the proposal Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e322	The representative Masud Gharahkhani then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e327	The Child Protection Service is responsible for single minor asylum seekers, according to the 2010 Ministry of Children and Gender Equality circular. That means that the law on child-resistance services applies to all children. So it's not like some people claim in the media that we break human rights by adopting this law change. Of course, whoever provides the services has nothing to do with human rights, it is the services themselves that matter. We take care of the needs of all children, and at reception they facilitate integration and settlement of the debt, and they facilitate the return of those to be returned. The children get to be with other families, often with their own language and culture, while being professionally cared for by professionals. Providing this service at reception clearly benefits rather than living in a child-rescue institution. Children are entitled to equivalent care regardless of age and residence status, cf. the Convention on the Protection of the Child. Then it is that differences can occur when there are factual, objective reasons. This is supported by the hearing statements, e.g. from the Norwegian Human Rights Institute. In the event of different needs for care, different and different services may be provided. Nevertheless, in the case of specific needs, responsibility for the services may be transferred from the UDI to the child protection authorities. This is what is being offered today, and will be continued when we adopt the amendment. It is apparent from the proposition, as stated in the setting on page 7, paragraph 1.7.7, that the recordings relating to accommodation, staffing and competence requirements will be followed up by the ministry in connection with the regulatory work, so the concerns of the case-leader I feel are well taken care of and described in the proposition. On the right, the changes in the law here today and the government support their work on regulatory changes with regard to, for example, manning and competence, as pointed out in the audio recordings. We are looking forward to a great system of supervision for single minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e340	The Progress Party supports this matter. We believe it is absolutely right to legislate what is actually today's practice, and that it also takes care of what was the request decision. There are no indications in that decision as to who should have that care. The most important thing should be that care is adequate and good. I see that proposals in this case argue that there should be no discrimination and that asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age should have the same rights as all other children. Now it's not like all other children are under the care of child protection. It's exceptional that you are. The important thing is to have the adequate competence of the department to take this responsibility. The distribution now of a slightly higher level of intervention for younger age groups than for those between 15 and 18 years of age makes sense. There has been a great deal of focus on improving child-care skills in the UDI, which is to be responsible, and calculations have been made to show that it would have been terribly expensive to transfer all asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age to child-restraint, without referring to any significant positive effect. This is a good case which hopefully kills the ball and which still provides sufficient and good care for all asylum seekers under the age of 18 who come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e351	The proposal provides for the legal establishment of the responsibility of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs for the care of unaccompanied minors living on reception and proposes that detailed rules on accommodation and care for this group be laid down in the regulations. The proposal is intended to respond to a request decision, Decision No. 938 for 2016–2017, where we say: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the liability of lone minor asylum seekers, the care they require of these children and the requirements for the reception of single minor asylum seekers.’ It became clear during the examination that the majority expected a clarification of the quality and extent of care provision for lone minors in asylum recipients, in the light of pediatric assessments. This has not been followed up. Caring for lone minors under the age of 15 is a matter of child protection. Several hearing bodies also consider that care should be transferred to child protection for the age range 15-18 years. The Centre Party believes that there are good reasons why the responsibility for caring for lone minors over the age of 15 should remain with the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and that this should be legalised. It is the UDI who has experience in developing and operating a receiver specially adapted for lone minors, and we should build on that competence. Residence in the reception of asylum is temporary and limited in time and the framework for care differs significantly from the framework for the provision of care for lone minors residing in a municipality. The central party believes, as I said, that the responsibility remains with the UDI, but a prerequisite for this to be legalised is that the criteria for ensuring a sound provision of care in the light of child-care assessments are in place. We are therefore promoting proposals together with the Workers' Party, where we ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under public care are properly provided with care in the light of child-care assessments. This must be in place before any legislative act can be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e371	Children fleeing to Norway alone shall not be discriminated against and discriminated against in relation to Norwegian children who do not have parents and guardians. That's what this case is about. It is about legislating the violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is to legislate this discrimination. That's what's happening. What we know about children's development is that children need love, order and security. A careless life harms the brain. You're in combat mode to survive, not to evolve. In good care and general daily life, the brain comes out of combat mode. I learned this from Magne Raundalen, a well-known pediatrician, who is concerned about child-mind protection. So am I, and that should be the Storting. These are children who have been alone for a long time, without parents and guardians. They've been without the care you need for the rest of your life. They've been in a crisis, a complete crisis, and they're still. The brain is in combat mode. There is no difference between what children need — what you need if you are a lone asylum seeker between 15 and 18 years of age, and the Norwegian child needs when they are without parents. Yes, perhaps the offer may be slightly different, but the level is not different. They do not need less security and less care. Many of them may need more. They shall not be discriminated against and discriminated against. We promised that when we signed the Children's Convention. It says Norway's human rights institution, that by following what the government is now proposing, there is a breach. Norwegian Women's Sanitation Association, Red Cross, Red Child, UNHCR – I expect my co-representatives to have read the hearing recordings. The government proposes that we discriminate, that we legislate that they should have a worse offer. It's also in the proposition. The offer today is thought to be good enough, with all the reports we have all received that it leads to marine casualties, marine damage, difficult lives. This is about taking care of the kids who are under our responsibility, in such a way that they do the best they can for the rest of their lives, whether they're going to stay in Norway or they're going out. Therefore, SV proposes a number of proposals that I will come back to, but I will promote them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e386	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e391	I've lived a long and good life, and I've learned a lot in this life. I've learned the difference between right and wrong. I have learned that one should keep it a law, and I have learned that small people are the greatest people we have, and that honesty is the longest. Today I will be faithful to all this. I've learned the difference between right and wrong. For me and the Christian People's Party, it is wrong to discriminate against the children who are under the care of the state. For this reason, we should preferably see today that single minor asylum seekers were legislated under the care of child protection rather than UDIs, but once that is how it has now become, at least the Christian People's Party has worked to get it as well as possible within the framework that is. I've also learned to keep it a law. The Christian People's Party was part of the government negotiations on Granavolden and lost this case. We also won a lot on Granavolden, but it is not relevant for the lone minor asylum seekers. But we're going to keep what we promise, in good and in bad, in good days and in a little worse days. So we have to be faithful to the negotiations and decisions that are made. I've learned that the little people are the greatest people we have. That is why it is particularly important that we, as adults, provide good protection for all children, including single minor asylum seekers. I am therefore pleased that I can be faithful to this teaching, and the Christian People's Party today is getting an impact on the following in the further work: The wording of the regulation shall ensure a legal standard for the soundness of the care provision and shall take care of the best interests of children throughout the stay of the recipient. The right of a single minor to be heard and to participate, participate and influence during his stay in the reception of asylum shall be laid down by law, regulation or administrative action and the right of participation of single minors in the further legislative work. The specific activity obligations of the directorate of foreigners and asylum recipients shall be laid down in order to help the minor obtain the necessary services from other sectoral authorities, such as health protection, schooling, child protection, etc., during the stay of the recipient of the asylum. A system of supervision shall be established for the care of lone minors living in reception centres. I have also learned that honesty is the longest, and this is the great and full honesty. Yes, I am a little lazy today and should like to see it differently. At the same time, I am pleased that we have managed to bring about changes that will mean something to the lone minor asylum seekers at reception today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e406	The proposition dealt with by Stortinget today contains proposals for amendments to Section 95 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The changes entail the legalisation of the responsibilities of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs for the lone minors living in the reception of asylum. It is also proposed to legislate that the day-to-day care of the lone minors in reception may be exercised by the recipient of the asylum by the operator and that detailed provisions for the accommodation and care of that group may be laid down. The proposal follows up the request decision of the Grand Duchy. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law of the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs on the responsibility of lone minors living in recipients of asylum will clarify the current legal situation. Such clarification will increase the predictability of lone minors and provide the basis for increased external control and for a more comprehensive organisation of the housing and care provision of this group. Furthermore, regulation of the responsibilities of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs will help to clarify what the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has – and does not have – responsibility for, look at the principle of sectoral responsibility, so that proper authorities can be held accountable. In the longer term, this could lead to more effective interaction between the Directorate for Foreign Affairs and other sectoral authorities and more efficient management. The Ministry’s proposal to lay down the detailed requirements for the care to be provided will strengthen the legal certainty of the lone minors during their stay in the reception of asylum. Such a regulation will also help to improve the ability of the unaccompanied minors living in reception, and their representatives, to respect their rights in the event of failure to provide care by the recipient. In the further regulatory work, the Ministry will therefore clarify today's requirements, inter alia. the proper care, staffing and competence of the staff of the recipients of asylum, as well as the rights of the lone minors during their stay in the recipients of asylum. This bill will ensure that unaccompanied minors receive a proper care offer during their stay at the reception. The legalisation of the responsibilities of the Directorate for Foreign Affairs for this group will also enhance legal certainty for all lone minors living in reception facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e422	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e427	How can the Council of State feel that this bill is following the decision of the Grand Council? Firstly, the government was asked to promote a bill on the responsibility of single minor asylum seekers. Yes, it's delivered. Secondly, what care these children require, and what requirements are imposed on the reception of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers, it does not provide the government with, it must be returned by means of a regulation. They also say that this will be about regulating today's standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e432	Yes, I can see that there is a disagreement about the law here. We have responded to a law, a codification of what is current practice. That's what we've been responding to. So we've said that when it comes to the closer content, it's quite natural that it's fixed to regulation. Now, regulations are all the time based on the fact that the Storting delegates such authority to the government, and if the Storing doesn't want it, you're free not to do it. But this is the usual way to do it, namely to legislate the overall, while the details are made out in a regulation – in addition to the ministry and the directorate doing so in a good and proper way. As regards the level, the request decision did not state that the level should be raised. So we're going to be based on the level of the day when we're going to develop regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e439	The whole purpose of a majority at Stortinget asking for this matter was to believe that the offer was too bad, and that one wanted to raise the standard. The Labour Party has promoted a proposal today that I register does not get a majority, because the Left and Christian People's Party, as usual, in the previous round, no longer supported it. I guess that's not the first time the Left Party and the Christian People's Party go away from the promises they've made when they've been in a majority in previous rounds. But can the Council of State say something about what will actually come into the regulation? Will it mean something higher standard, or is it such that it is the status quo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e446	If the purpose and the whole purpose of those who made the request were to change the standard, you might want to say that. You haven't. We realized that the purpose here was to clarify what was involved, which care services, and who should be responsible for their care provision for them for less than and more than 15 years, i.e. a codification of what has been current practice. In terms of content, I explained it. It shall, of course, contain requirements both for competence, for the content of the care provision, for manning and for that type of thing. We'll get back to that. This is a work that we are going to do, and which is precisely intended to ensure a good and safe manning and a good and sound provision of care for those over 15 years of age who are in receipt of asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e453	In the consultation opinion of the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights, which is both the Advisory Body of the Storting and the Government on how to manage our human rights, it states: Norway’s human rights institution believes that the proposal in Prop. 82 L does not ensure an equivalent provision of care for lone minors over 15 years of age and therefore the proposal is contrary to human rights. How does the Council of State justify this error? And where is the technical justification that these children should have a worse care offer than Norwegian children who are without parents and guardians?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e463	This codifies current practice. There is a practice that SV in the government conducted, and it is a practice that has continued. It is not a practice that has been condemned by Norway for violating human rights. We recognize that children over and under the age of 15 have different needs for care. They must be properly cared for, the best of which is for the child, but there are different needs for children over and under 15 years of age. This applies whether they have asylum status or not. And in recognizing this, we are now codifying what is in force, namely that child protection should be the primary responsibility and responsibility for them under the age of 15, while the Foreign Affairs Directorate should be responsible for them over the age of 15. However, they must be treated in a proper and equivalent manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e470	The fact that the practice has been incorrect before is not a good reason. We had to move the limit up to 15 years; it was right against that time. The point here is, what's right for these children? I have not heard the Council of State give a professionally sound argument as to why you should need less care when you are over 15 years old. Anyone who has been away in children and young people knows that at that age, it may be even more important than ever to have regular caregivers who can guide you. So you've been alone for years, you don't know anything about the future, and you need adults to guide you. The government does not see this great need for these young people, also in the light of what Magne Raundalen teaches us about child-mind protection, namely that all of his forces are used to be in combat mode only to survive, and not to be able to develop positively – because you are not safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e479	Let me just make it clear: I do not believe that the practice has been wrong. That's not what I said. I say we codify what is current practice. So I didn't say that children over the age of 15 needed less care, but I said they needed a different care. Everyone who's had kids in the house knows that. It's another kind of care you need when you've passed 15 years – when you're preparing for adult life, preparing for a life of your own, preparing for school, work and other things than what a child under 15 is doing. The important thing for us is that there should be a proper and good offer, whether you are over 15 years of age or less.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e488	But we know that it's not happening today. That is what this case is about, that we are now going to legislate a practice that is not good enough and that is even a violation of human rights. Then I'll go on and ask about this with the supervision system. It's been working for a very long time. During the examination in the committee, I thought that the comments made by the government parties meant that we should have an independent supervisory system. But I gradually understood that it was not meant to be. We are now promoting a proposal to establish an independent supervisory system, and I ask the Council of State to clarify: is it the case that the supervisory regime should be independent? And if that's actually the case, what's the reason why you couldn't find an agreement with SV about this? Because it's now said two different things, both that it should be independent, and that you can't write it in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e497	Firstly, when it comes to codifying current practices, practices are changing. Today, there are completely different requirements for the content of an asylum-seeker who lives in a young person aged 15 or over than it did, for example. Five and ten years ago. There have been ever more stringent requirements for staffing and competence and the care of children. I think that's very good. And the regulations we're going to develop are going to be in line with the more stringent requirements we have today. With regard to the issue of independent supervision, there is a request decision that we have to answer. It is true today that the UDI has responsibility for the oversight of asylum recipients. They conclude, follow up and check that the agreements and their content are complied with. So there's a control activity related to this. But there are also good reasons to say that independent supervision will be more neutral, and we've said that we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e505	That's the line change. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e512	As regards the supervisory regime, SV considers that it has to be independent. It doesn't work when you're watching yourself. Here we know that there is a difficult situation for those people who are there. So I hear that the Council of State in its statement says that you need to look more at the legal certainty of the system. That is good, but there is also a level of care that needs to be raised. To what is now said, the government has therefore interpreted this proposal as a majority in the Grand Duchy, and that is the background to this: it must be a lesson for the Grand Duchy that one must be clearer in the proposal, because the government does not care about the comments that have been written, which say that the point of the majority was that the care provider should be improved and brought to the level of what is in child protection. I also hear that there are some people in the debate who are trying to spread some kind of story that SV wants these children to enter Norwegian child protection institutions and get the same offer. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about having an offer that's the same level and has the same quality, but that's adapted to them. They may need other things. Nor should Norwegian children under child protection have exactly the same offer. It concerns the quality of the offer. We could probably also look at the quality of child protection, that's not always good enough either. But here we know that it's much worse, and there's no pediatric reason why it should be like that, because these kids need care as much as others to get out of childhood and into adult life with their mouths up and legs down and do well. They've experienced things I think most of us don't even dare think about. Therefore, SV proposes that this responsibility should lie with the child protection system, as it is for them under the age of 15. There is no reason to make that distinction – no, no sensible professional reason to make that distinction, sail if it has been done so before. We also ask that the quality requirements to be cared for should be legalised. It's all the organisations that work with these kids, dwindlingly agree with SV i. And we ask that those requirements should be equivalent to staffing, competence and offers in reception and institutions under child protection. Finally, SV will vote in a subsidiary way for the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e527	I only take the word to clarify some of the things that the previous representative had in mind when it comes to independent supervisory arrangements. It is quite clear that the Right supports independent supervision, but that supervision should be independent is something else. We want an oversight that should be subject to government and government, and not independent supervision as such. But the supervision itself must be independent, of course it must. We also want single minor asylum seekers on reception to turn to an independent body, i.e. not an independent supervisory body outside of political control, but a supervision subject to corruption and government. That is the background for the division of words within the Committee, as the representative, Mr Andersen, refers to. It's no big deal, but it's important for the Right to be precise in the wording of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e534	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e539	I almost want to say in all the countries and kingdoms of the world, there is no one who has proposed supervision beyond the control of the authorities. Where do such thoughts come from? To independent supervision, as the government parties wrote in their comments, SV said that we agree, we cannot just write ‘independent supervision’ throughout the comment, because we believe that it is independent of the body that is initially responsible. There is no one who has proposed to establish supervision that should be, as it were, a satellite without political anchoring. This is rail argumentation from end to end only in order not to be entirely sure that this is implemented. I have to admit that I am quite upset when I hear such stories, just as I have also heard Trellevik in debates say that SV believes that these children should be placed at Norwegian child protection institutions. No, we never said that. We think they should have their own offers, but on the level of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e546	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e563	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e570	I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation on this matter. The case concerns changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, new action in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. It is about providing a basis for alternative measures, i.e. extended residence time in Section 70 of the Foreign Affairs Act and also a basis in Section 60 to determine requirements for an additional three years. It is clear that the new rules on additional time should not form the basis of any general embellishment of practices. Behind the recommendation are all the parties of the Committee, except SV. I expect the other parties themselves to speak for their views. The Progress Party believes that this is a good thing. It has probably also been that our then, or sitting, Minister of Justice was involved in preparing this proposal, and as far as we can see, there are few changes in the matter since it was sent out to the hearing. The intention of the Progress Party in this case has been mainly to provide a basis, an opportunity to respond to the issues where you do not have a ban today, for example. for the best interests of children. In such cases today, there is still no response, although there have been serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. It's a weakness. As you can see, this is a tightening of the law that will give more people who today escape, a reaction. We are pleased, because it is very important to support respect for the law and to ensure that it is not unresponsive if you have violated the Foreign Affairs Act, in order to stay in Norway. Unfortunately, we know that the extent of cheating, attempts to cheat, in particular asylum cases, is high, and that it cannot be that the best interests of the child are decisively effective, although it should and should be a fundamental consideration – as it is actually done in a number of cases today, where, as I said, there is no response. In this case, we have stressed what is also stated in the proposition, that you should not facilitate a general decoration. We consider this to be a good and proper tightening of the law, and it is a matter that we ourselves have been involved in drafting, when we were in government. With that, we support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e583	The changes in the foreign law proposed here by the government are supported by the Workers' Party. In asylum and refugee policy, trust is important. It is essential that people are sincere about the identity and information required so that the foreign authorities can make the right decision. However, even in those cases where infringements occur, alternatives to expulsion have been lacking in the special cases where consideration for the best interests of the child is burdensome. Therefore, we believe it is positive that the change that is now being proposed, with an increase in the additional time for permanent residence as an alternative response, gives the foreign authorities greater flexibility in these matters. I also agree with those who point out that this is not a general embellishment, but it may be important in special cases where the child's best and right to family life needs to be balanced against other social interests, such as the importance of responding when someone has broken the law. I also want to comment on the general discussion about the child's best in foreign affairs. As you know, the Workers' Party has been involved in a review of the practice of foreign agencies in assessing the child's best in all foreign affairs, and we have made proposals on this which have been voted down by the majority of the population. Now the government itself tells them to set up a working group to look at the best of the child in expulsion cases. That is good, even though I wish the government would go a little further to work and not limit the review to just dealing with expulsion. However, as a result of this working group, I am sure that the debate on alternative forms of reaction will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e592	Excursions are required. When it is established that the objective criteria for expulsion are present, it is necessary to assess whether foreigners should actually be expelled. Exhibit shall not be decided if, taking into account the seriousness of the relationship and the connection of the foreigner to the rich, it would be a disproportionate measure to the foreigner himself or to the immediate family. For the Right, today there are two important changes we are adopting. The expulsion options may allow for an administrative response in the specific cases where no expulsion decision has been taken in spite of serious and repeated violations of foreign law. One will also have greater flexibility in specific cases than the foreign administrations currently have in individual cases, where the social importance of expulsion is less and where the care of children is difficult. It is also a very important and very good change. For the Right, it is important that the new rules on additional time should not serve as a basis for general embellishment of the practice of the expulsion of foreigners who break the foreign law, but rather provide a more likely response from society in some foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e603	As has been well explained, a majority of the committee, including the Centre Party, supported the proposals in the proposal. The main change proposed is that, in the event of a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, three years of additional residence in Norway may be required before a permanent residence permit can be obtained. There will then be a total of six years in cases where expulsion is not possible. It is clarified in the proposals that the change should not be an embellishment of current legislation, but should only be applicable in specific cases. Such special cases are, as we have heard, cases where special consideration for children makes it impossible for expulsion to happen under the law, and where so far no other sanctions have been available. At present, authorities have no possibility of reacting in cases where the Foreign Affairs Act is being broken, but special considerations make it impossible to implement expulsion. The centre party considers it appropriate and appropriate to introduce a legislative amendment to allow for a response to the offender in the cases in question. We believe that the law as it is today gives bad signals when serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act can occur without any response from the authorities. The central party believes that in cases where crime is serious, it should also be able to assess other criminal reactions, such as fines. However, in this matter, we are joining the majority and the committee's recommendation, and we believe that the changes are right and fair. The proposed amendments also provide for a wider practice of refusing a permanent residence permit if there are serious reasons. It's also well justified in terms of the proposition and something to which the centre party subscribes. Finally, I hope and believe that the vast majority of the population, both those who live in the country and those who want to live here, agree that serious crimes must have consequences. At the same time, it is important that we avoid giving young people unlawfully harmed. With the committee's recommendation, we believe that we will achieve both.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e616	When SV and the Christian People's Party took the initiative to change the law in this area, there were issues such as: The case of Yasmin we started from. Yasmin came to Norway as a life-saver 19-year-old and made a mistake that she may have bitterly regretted all along. It's now 16 or 17 years since she married a Norwegian man and had four children. In this way, she should have received a diploma from Erna Solberg, who wants women to put more children into the world in Norway. But the Supreme Court has given UDI the right to expel her as the law is today, and Nav is demanding child welfare for the children, who are Norwegian and live in Norway, as if she had hidden that money away and not used it for the kids. She has, of course, raised these children. SV believes that the consideration for these four children, and for many other children, should indicate that she was allowed to stay in Norway. That's why we took the initiative, and we were going to have a law change that explicitly took more into account children in these cases. We have got back a change in the law that gives a criminal reaction to those who are not being punished today, and who do not explicitly improve the situation for families with children, which was the whole starting point. We now have a foreign policy that is extremely child- and family-indispensable. Sending Yasmin out of the country is the recipe for destroying a family, without any success. She made a mistake, and we thought she would be able to get a response. There could be fines, there could be prison, there could be deferred permits. Now we're getting a warrant for deferred permits, and that's okay, but the wording of the law doesn't guarantee what was the whole purpose, namely that the children should be better secured in such matters as Yasmins. And that's not just that thing, there's a lot of such things. Today, immigration-regulating considerations are overly sensitive to the best interests of children in many cases. I record that the majority still think that you have the right to break such families, sail if there was a small mistake that was committed many years ago. We disagree. I refer to the suggestions that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e629	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e634	The size has pointed to the need to investigate measures that may provide alternatives to expulsion in specific cases where the best interests of the child so warrant. Today, we are adjusting today's practice. In cases where it has previously been administratively open only to expulsion as a criminal reaction, the administration is now given one more tool in the box to assess criminal responses. Some people think it's a tightening up. It's not. With alternatives to expulsion, we give management more flexibility in specific cases than the foreign administration currently has. Specific cases are typically specific individual cases where deportation is less important from a social point of view. Do not misunderstand this message – taking into account the concerns of the children concerned would be more likely to play a decisive role in such matters. In cases where the administration is in doubt as to what should be the result, an alternative to expulsion will benefit families. Today’s legislation relating to violations of the Foreign Affairs Act can be very rigid and square and can cause families to split up. As the law has been designed, the outcome of violations will have major consequences for those involved. It's unfortunate. Expulsion as a punishment can be very profound in matters relating to children, and now the administration is given the space they need to have greater flexibility in those matters where, socially, expulsion is less important. This will ensure more reasonable and fair outcomes of violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, and the winners are the children and the families. Deportation from the country is a very interventional measure and, in particular, in matters relating to children. The Christian People's Party believes that on the basis of the matter we have seen being raised in the media lately, we need to look at how the child's best and immigration-regulating considerations are emphasised. Today, we give the administration alternative criminal reactions, and not long ago, the Christian People's Party was given the advantage of setting up a working group to look at how the threshold in expulsion cases involving children is being practised. The working group shall assess the need for changes in Norwegian rules or guidelines related to the best interests of the child in the foreign administration. For us in the Christian People's Party, the principle of the child's best interests is important. We are pleased to be able to provide alternatives to expulsion today and believe that the child's best should always be lifted in all matters, including, of course, the foreign administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e645	With the proposals that the majority of the Committee has now joined in the vote, the administration will have more room for flexibility in difficult matters of particular concern and it will be possible to respond to foreigners who commit serious or repeated violations of the Foreign Affairs Act but who cannot be expelled. The majority of the Committee and the minority of the Committee are particularly concerned with matters relating to children. So am I. Although it will vary greatly the extent to which an expulsion decision is actually experienced, there is no doubt that in some cases expulsion affects children severely. I would like to stress the importance of paying particular attention to the issues relating to children, and the Department is now working on several measures and investigations. We have just sent, at the hearing, a proposal to strengthen the right to freedom of justice through the provision of additional hours of free legal advice in the appeal procedure in the event of a foreign infringement, when foreigners have children in Norway with a residence permit or Norwegian citizenship. In the same hearing, we have proposed a new rule on the right to attend hearings in the event of the expulsion of a foreigner who has been withdrawn from Norwegian citizenship and who has children with permanent residence in Norway. The Ministry is also working on setting up a working group to examine the general threshold for expulsion in matters relating to children. Hopefully, the review of the working group will provide a good basis for assessing whether or not to make adjustments to the expulsion threshold for some specific file types. Earlier this month, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs has also published a mission to investigate, among other things. the need for more direct and oral consultation of children in expulsion proceedings. At the same time, we have to deal with strict expulsion practices against foreigners who cheat with identity, or who commit very serious violations of the Foreign Affairs Act. The Supreme Court has also held that in the event of a very serious breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, expulsion will be disproportionate only if it imposes exceptional or exceptional burdens on the child or children affected. It is therefore not possible to escape the fact that, regardless of legislative adjustments and investigations, administration will often face difficult balancing issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e656	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e662	I'm very happy that the Council of State understands that this can be very, very difficult things for those children and those families. At the end of the article, the Council of State said that account should be taken of the fact that children are not subjected to ‘unusual’ loads. Then I would like to hear the Council of State's thoughts about what an unusually heavy burden on a child is. Will it not be that one of the parents is expelled from Norway, and where in theory there may be two years, but in practice much, much longer, and that one can even risk that the lone parent who is back may not have enough income to get him back at all? Losing one of the carers -- I can't believe it's not a big burden for kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e669	That's not what I said. It will very often be a heavy burden to lose a parent, at least in those cases where you have a good parent and live with your parents. All things are different. What I referred to was what the Supreme Court has said about this. They have shown that expulsion is disproportionate only if it results in unusually large or exceptional loads. Yes, it is a burden to lose a parent, but it is also very serious to commit serious violations of the foreign law, lying about identity. You can't lie to stay. There must be consequences, and then family relations alone will not be good enough to avoid being expelled. So each case has to be considered separately. It does UDI, it does UNE, and it does the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e676	It is probably a question of where the break point goes when it is more serious that a life-saver 19-year-old lied when she came to Norway than that four kids should lose mother say. Somewhere there must be a limit to how old these matters could be, and a limit to the consequences. That's why SV asked about alternative responses, where we are also willing to look at, for example. fines or prisons for this, but where the consequences for the children are reduced. We don't think it should be possible to lie for a stay, but somewhere this border also goes to the Council of State. Now immigration-regulating consideration of the children in too many cases where children feel that one parent is being sent out of the country – in the example I showed: four children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e681	That is why we leave to the competent authority and to the court to make an assessment in each case. No case is equal, and therefore each case must be dealt with separately. In all cases, the best consideration of the child must of course be considered. But the passing of time does not change the fact that one has lied, or that one has acted contrary to the rules of alienation. It doesn't change by time, but the circumstances around it can change. That is why we are here today with a legislative proposal that, in case of doubt, the assessment is that it is a very intrusive measure, but at the same time a serious violation of the law has been committed – yes, there is now an alternative. But it is not meant to lower the threshold – as I understand the representative wants, and it is an honest matter – that is not the answer in this bill. It is simply a matter of giving more instruments in difficult matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e686	I think I must remind the Minister of Justice that there are limitation periods in some serious criminal cases in Norway. In these cases there is no limitation period. That's what we see happening completely unfairly in many of these very old cases. It's also true, as the Council of State says, that the bill we're dealing with now is no general decoration and no more consideration for children, unfortunately. I would have been happy if that were the case. But the Council of State also says that the concern for children should be taken into account. We have seen this in other cases where we have also said that the concern for children should be taken care of, where the Stortinget has had to intervene several times, both to the so-called October children and to the long-term children, and where we have asked that the foreign regulations make it clearer that the child's concern must be given greater importance. There is a need in these matters as well. Do the government councils see that need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e691	That's exactly why we're here, that's to give further consideration to the issues where there's great doubt, where the matter involves children. But I think we are fundamentally in disagreement about policy in this area. There are some people who believe that you have children, that you should never be able to be expelled. I don't mean it. I believe that association with children alone does not mean that you can lie to stay. I think it must have consequences that you have committed serious crimes. But I also believe that each case is different, and fortunately it is either UNE, with its professional authority, or the court to make the specific assessment in specific cases, to which the representative refers, where she disagrees with the court. It's all right to be. And the law is passed here in this room, and you want to introduce rules of limitation, you can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e696	After all, we are currently dealing with a bill, on the initiative of the SV and the Christian People's Party, which would take more account of the children in these matters. That's what we're suggesting that we do, while the government comes back with a bill where they explicitly say, "We're not going to take more into account the children in these matters." That's the problem with the whole thing. We don't want it to be free, but we want more attention to be paid to children in these matters – especially where it will hit them very hard, and it does in very many of these cases – and to set up a system of alternative forms of reaction, so that you get a punishment, but that you don't hit your children as hard as you do today. What is the reason why the Council of State has not wanted us to move practices through legislation to take more account of children in expulsion cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e701	Only in order to clear up: the consideration of children should be assessed in all cases. That's point one. However, emphasis can also be placed on immigration policy considerations. It is recognised in the Court of Justice, it is recognised in the European Court of Human Rights, and it is important to send out a clear signal in the world that you cannot cheat to stay, either yourself or anyone else. It's incredibly important. People follow what's going on, and we see the migration flows, and they're not going to disappear. Then we respond to this request decision now. So you get the opportunity to judge something other than expulsion. Then you answered exactly what you asked for. We do not lower the threshold – it was never meant to do – for who is to be expelled and not. But there are issues where there is doubt, where you need a different tool than expulsion, and that will be very good in the issues where there is a basis for it, because it involves children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e708	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e715	There's a need to get hold of the last state council said now, because then we're at the heart of what this is all about. This bill says that we can now impose on those who did not have a response before, a reaction. You might think so, but it does not change the situation for those who today experience expulsion – the families of children who were just the starting point of the representative proposal promoted by SV and the Christian People's Party. It confirms the Council of State over and over again. We are constantly hearing that yes, the best of the child must be taken into account, but immigration-regulating considerations are also important. And we know from practice today that it trumps, also in things like the one I read up instead, about Yasmin and her four children. It's simply inhuman and too strict, it's child-friendly, it's family hostile, and SV is against it. We believe that there is a regulatory framework that takes more account of children than what we are doing today, including in these matters. We think that would be right, especially for the children. I hear the government argues that there's a signal sent out into the world. Yes, Norway should also send a signal in the world that here we take the children into account too, that we have reactions when someone makes mistakes, but that to treat many of these families of children as brutally as Norway is doing now, we should stop. We need to find other forms of reaction that go too far on the kids – as they do today. That is why SV is promoting its proposals today. It is a bit encouraging that there are no more people who see what SV see, and will support them under such a line that takes into account children – as Norway likes to adorn itself with that we do – even in difficult cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e724	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e742	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e749	The Progress Party is promoting seven proposals here. Proposal No. 1 to terminate Norway's participation in the ILO Convention. Proposal No. 2 is about to repeal the Finnmarks Act. Proposal No. 3 is to examine proposals that result in the transfer of all agglomeration-related land in Finnmark from the Finnmark property to the municipalities immediately. Proposal No. 4 is that today's unattracted land in Finnland is matriculated as real estate. Proposal No. If necessary, proposals are made in such a way that areas currently included in the Finnmark property, together with the areas of State Forest in Northern and Troms, come under a legal status similar to that of the country's land area in the rest of the country. Proposal No. 6 is about to find out the necessary suggestions to put down the Velvet. And proposal No. 7 is in favour of making the necessary proposals to complete the management of the Sami language area. Overall, these proposals will make it impossible for the State to facilitate the security and development of its language, culture and social life by the Sámi People's Party, and that is something the State is obliged to do under the Constitution § 108. In the last seven years, a unanimous committee has underlined the importance of meeting these obligations. It is therefore with some wonder that while the Progress Party was in government, they supported 100 pst. the government’s major messages and the strengthening of the Sami language. Now they're taking a sudden distance from everything. For example, a unanimous committee in the inner East said. 246 S for 2020-2021: ‘The Committee points out that the State of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Nordics and Sami. Both peoples have the same right and the same right to develop their culture and language.’ The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, are committed to these principles. I suppose the Progress Party itself will explain its point of view. The Centre Party considers the development of Sami language and culture, inter alia: in line with the heart language, is and will be a central part of the national policy towards the Sami population, and therefore does not support any of these proposals, since the proposals seriously weaken the opportunities of the Sami people. As regards proposal No: 5, I refer you to the request decision that the Stortinget asks the government not to grant the mountain law the same application in Northernland and Troms as in the south of the Nordic border, and we believe that the request decision has not been answered well enough. There have been four years in a drawer, and we believe that the decision must be followed up in an independent case, not as part of the proceedings of the Co-Court of Justice 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e769	The Progress Party is alone and isolated in its proposals in this matter – and it may be that the Progress Party feels comfortable with it, but they do. I think it is good that we have a strong and unambiguous growth that isolates the views and proposals of the Progress Party on this matter. It is worth noting that the proposals are made by a party that until recently has been in government, put in power in Norway, and which is also the government's supporting party. In particular, I would like to commend the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for their cash and clear rejection of these proposals and for ensuring that the Progress Party, as I said, is all alone in the Storting today in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e778	This is recognisable and partly old proposals from the Progress Party. They've been promoted before several times, as far as I can remember at least. The most striking thing is that you actually want to figure out how to shut down the whole thing. On the basis of the Constitution § 108, the Right wishes to pursue a policy that best supports in the process of caring for the Sami population, their culture and their identity. That means that we also have the obligations of the ILO Convention. The right considers that the Sameting has proved to be an appropriate part of the work on common policies. Through the Sameting, we have a stable and representative party to deal with when the question of the Sami theme comes up, and it will be natural in many contexts. Then it is important to have a dialogue and also to have a good formal partner when we come to the formal consultations, which we will come back to in a later matter in Stortinget now in ours. The idea is to build skills in Sami relations and a good agency to distribute the resources for cultural, linguistic and other purposes provided by the Norwegian State. As the rapporteur explained, this proposal contains a wide range of questions. I do not go into any detail about them here, but I refer to the letters of the Council of State, which are attached to the matter, and which respond in a good way to the issues raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e791	Over the last 30 years, in particular, we have received legislation in Norway that distinguishes people based on ethnicity. Yes, I know it's uncomfortable for the Storting and not least for the government and Erna Solberg, but it's a fact: we have parts of our legislation that distinguish people based on DNA, based on blood, based on lineage. This is a fact. That's also the whole basis for us having a merger, because we have a common policy: we have the reindeer management law, we have the Finnmarks Act, we have the grant of scholarships. We have an ethnic register that defines who can vote in merger elections. All of this has in common that it's defined by blood, by line. There is something a liberal democracy that Norway should not be familiar with. I know it's uncomfortable, but it's a fact. The Progress Party fully agrees with the Constitution's formulation that we should take care of Sami culture, Sami language and their ability to participate in society. This does not mean that we have to have special arrangements that give a small amount of money, approx. 18 000 in the nominee of the Samet, one in front of the other in North Norway. So there are a few percent of the population who have a very strong power through the Sameting — from the development of new industries to the construction of new transport, new infrastructure. Here are the Sami interests that are being listened to, to which the government listens, to which the Storting also chooses to listen, and which is a cling around the foot in terms of developing North Norway – creating jobs, making North Norway the economic locomotive North Norway to be for the rest of the country. So you choose to give a small group of people precedence over the large majority. It's true that some people have noticed that we've been dealing with these proposals in the past. It is true that the Progress Party has been clear and clear in this matter all the way. We're going to keep doing that. I note that in this Chamber the Progress Party is the only party that not only in principle, but also in practice, shows that they treat people as equal. We don't go to DNA, we don't go to blood, we don't go to genealogy when we give people rights in society, and when we design our legislation. That's why I'm taking up our suggestions. We are proud of this debate. This is the only right development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e802	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e807	On that day, the Progress Party promoted this representative proposal in Stortinget, the majority of the population parked the proposal in cash there and then. So really we might not have had to have this debate, but that's an opportunity to say what we think about these issues. The starting point for both the ILO Convention, Norway’s accession and the establishment of the Conspiracy is to balance the differences that have existed there before, namely that someone had no power and the ability to care for his interests within the system that was in place. That was the whole starting point. And that means that the system we had before, and the system the Progress Party wants, would outrun the Sami interests. We already know that. They will also exaggerate nature considerations, climate considerations – all possible considerations should give way when there is money in place for that lot. But I'm very pleased that there is a very broad majority in the Grand Duchy now that we are fully in agreement that the accession to the ILO Convention stands firm, and that we see great benefit in the Sameeting. For SV, this is an extension of democracy – a modern democracy in which we do not see any voices being able to express themselves and participate in the decision-making processes and also take decisions relating to them seas, as a threat, but as an extension and a modern development of democracy. So it's up to us others also to make sure that this is possible, and one of the things that SV is going to follow in particular on the future, is the follow-up of NOU 2016: 18, the heart language. For the language is incredibly important for identity. The Sami industry is important, yes, it is, but the language is what is often the whole characteristic of the identity. Many of the Sami languages are now very small, very vulnerable, and it requires that we take action not to lose them, because they are a very important part of our cultural heritage. I hope that the majority who today agree to oppose all the proposals of the Advance Party can agree that we have a job to do to secure those languages in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e818	Sometimes you think, is that really possible? It's not that often that's what I think in this room, because luckily, this is essentially about factual disagreements, about principles or real policy. But this proposal roams at the heart of who we are as decent people, simply. The main principle of ILO Convention No. 169, on indigenous peoples and indigenous peoples in independent countries, the right of indigenous peoples to preserve and further develop their own culture and the duty of the authorities to take measures to support this work. Norway ratified as the first country of ILO Convention No. 169 by a decision of 20 June 1990. Our country is established in the territory of two people: the North and the Sami. Both people have the same right and the same right to be able to develop their culture and language. The Constitutional Act § 108 states: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» I'm glad that an almost total accumulation is behind this. The Progress Party is the exception, both with this and with previous voting proposals: withdrawing the Sameting, withdrawing from the People's Convention. I repeat, is that possible? I don't use any more words. I just sugar and go and sit down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e834	The aim of the government's common policy is to facilitate the conditions for a living Sami culture, living Sami languages and Sami industries for the future. The merger is the nationally elected body and the government’s main premiscuous supplier and dialogue partner on co-political issues. The representatives of the Progress Party say that the allocation to the Sameting fund an extra unnecessary bureaucracy. That's not true. In 2021 Sametinget distributed 67 pst. of the appropriations carried forward for various purposes. It provides support for cultural and language actions throughout the country and contributes to the creation of jobs in the districts and living Sami settlements. In the proposal, we can also read that the Progress Party proposes to transfer several of its tasks to the Ministry of Culture, i.e. to move tasks and jobs from North Norway to Oslo – a purely centralisation policy without reducing bureaucracy. It cannot or will not be supported by the government. It is not up to the government to follow up any of the proposals contained in the draft representative. It will break with the foundation of the government's common policy, and it will be contrary to the Constitution § 108. The Sami language management area is central to the maintenance and further development of languages. In the administrative area, Sami and Norwegian are assimilated languages. The government believes it is important to establish and maintain bilingual societies where possible. In following up NOU 2016: 18, the heart language, the government and the whole thing see together ways to make the management system more flexible and more adaptable to the Sami language situation. We make the systems better, we don't liquidate them. I myself sat as a staggering representative when a large and cross-political majority adopted the Finnish Law. The law facilitates Sami culture, business and social life in Finland. It gave Samer and all other Finnmarks rights to land and water – and moved power from the state to the Finnmarks. I am proud that in 1990 Norway, as the first country in the world, ratified ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples and tribal peoples of independent states. The main principle of the Convention is that indigenous peoples have the right to preserve and further develop their own culture and that the authorities are obliged to take measures to support this work. It is not relevant for the government to wind up the Finnish Law or three out of our international legal obligations. The development of Norwegian rights and common policies has been in line with our international obligations, but not only because of them. I'm glad to see that such a large and broad majority in the Grand Duchy is with the government on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e859	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e865	What does the Council of State think about a party that just recently left the Solberg government after having been there for about seven years, now makes proposals to notify Norway of ILO Convention No. 169 and shutting down the whole thing after they've supported the opposite for seven years? What does the Council of State think of such proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e876	I would like to tell the representative that I was quite clear in my post. This is not government policy. That is why I do not support this proposal and I do not think it is a good policy. I believe that Norway should discharge its obligations under international law. Around the whole of Norway there are always conflicts related to land, related to the use of natural resources, and I don't think that conflicts in some areas of Finnmark are going away just because we wind up the Finnmarks Act. I also don't think there's much bureaucracy being cut off by putting down the Sameting and transferring it to e.g. several departments here in Oslo. I am concerned and that it is a good principle that the decisions are taken where people live, and then I see no reason to support a centralisation policy that I believe this proposal entails.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e881	Sometimes the Storting is a perfect place to have clear clarifications. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if she can guarantee that she and her own party will not be supporting similar proposals as to shut down the Sameting and take Norway out of ILO Convention No. 169 also in the next growing period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e886	Yes, I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e891	I'd like to challenge the Council of State to explain to me what she defines indigenous people to be, because we who live in North Norway have a little bit of difficulty in distinguishing Sami from other people. We're all Northmen, most of us. Some of us have Sami clues, others don't. We're a good mix in the north, but it's very hard to see the difference, what the same thing is, except for the few who do reindeer operations. The vast majority of cohabitants are people who live in cities, who live in Tromsø, who have no other way of life than that of the vast majority of northerners. They're like most people in the north, and they don't know Sami either. Can the Council of State clarify to me the concept of "ur people" and what it is that one who stands in the same number in Tromsø should necessarily have any other rights than others in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e896	What the representative points to is worth discussing, because I see that there is an increasing debate about who came first, that is, the debate on cohabitation is an indigenous person. I think much of what comes out in this debate is unfortunate. It is misleading for the issues related to the rights of the group as indigenous people. I do not think these two things should be confused. Samemen is an indigenous people in Norway. The size has determined it in the Constitution § 108. The ILO body has made it clear that the group is covered by ILO Convention No. 169, and the UN Committee on Human Rights has clearly provided in its opinions that together is an indigenous person. We also see that both Finland in its constitution and Sweden in its reports to UN bodies have done the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e901	At the end of its letter to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘I cannot see, on this basis, that the proposals proposed here by the representatives can be implemented without conflicting with the Constitution § 108.’ What does the State Council consider concrete and precise is the conflict between the Constitution § 108 and the proposals, and is there a legal assessment of this, based on the purposes of the paragraph mentioned in the preparatory work? Is this legal assessment done, and is it published publicly, so that we can see the reason why this is going to be a conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e911	The government is concerned that we should comply with our international obligations, and I therefore stand for what I said in this letter. To put it in a slightly larger perspective, I think dismantling democratic institutions in the belief that society is getting much better, absolutely not the way to go. I believe that what we've managed to do by establishing the Sameting as an institution, which has now also been given full budgetary responsibility to the same political issues, the dialogue the Norwegian authorities have, the fact that we have a combination that is close to where people live, and the areas they manage, are a good thing, and that the government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e918	In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that both the Constitution and several international conventions oblige Norway to facilitate the development of its language and culture by the Sami people. Can the Council explain which other conventions, other than the ILO 169, commit Norway in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e923	The fact that together is an indigenous people in Norway, we have established both in the Constitution and in the ILO Convention No. 169, and that's what we're essentially following up on. I would also like to say that the international commitments we have, the fact that Norway was so early to sign the ILO Convention, are something we should be proud of. Then we have different obligations, which I think we follow up in a good way. And we're going to keep doing that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e929	I'll follow up on that last one a little bit. There is no doubt that Norway signed the ILO Convention very early, and that Norway established the Sameting, has had an impact on the development of indigenous policies in many other parts of the world. What we know is that there have been groups of indigenous people who have been run over both by the authorities and poorly treated. We have been deprived of resources and control over the natural resources we live on, and other interests have been given priority in society and have in some places almost wiped out the indigenous population. Can the Council of State say a little more about how Norway works internationally, and how her impression is of Norway's work on indigenous rights – that is, what kind of meaning it has internationally, not only in the Nordic countries, but otherwise, to strengthen indigenous rights worldwide?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e936	I believe Norway should be very proud that we have gone ahead, because we see that other nations, other countries around the world, are looking at the work that has been done. The fact that we followed up the ILO Convention is one thing, but the work on, and not least the way we dealt with the Finnmark property issue, has given great international attention. Of course, there are conflicts related to the management of properties in Finnmark, it is in many other areas as well, but we shall be proud of the work we have done and how this is followed up. We see that we still have a long way to go when it comes to the Sami language – how important it is to build up under it and provide school skills, that all students are given the opportunity to learn their language, because it is about identity, pride, history and understanding of the Sami culture for all of us in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e948	First of all, I have to say that with the positions of both the Council of State and the majority of the Committee, you can easily see that we who live in North Norway have zero value if we don't belong to what they so nicely call the Sami people. Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated on 17 January 2019: «We have no laws that distinguish ethnicity.» Both this case and the law of union, which will be discussed later in the spring, confirm the opposite, and confirm that unfortunately there is an accepted position in this Chamber. The Council of State and the majority of the Committee write that the Progress Party's proposals conflict with the Constitution § 108, without justifying the conflict. And what is the conflict between § 108 and these proposals? The paragraph states: ‘The State Governing Authorities shall facilitate the security and development of the Sami People’s Group and the development of Sami languages, culture and social life.’ And then I ask, what is in the proposals that conflict with this? What are the proposals that say that we should not facilitate the security and development of Sami languages, culture and society? I tried to ask the Council of State instead, and I did not get a response. I cannot see that this has been legally assessed. The response of the Council of State and the comments of the majority is a partial political assessment, quite simply. If we're going to talk about the Constitution, we can also discuss the Constitution § 98, because what does that say? It says, "Everybody is equal to the law. No human being must be subjected to irresistible or improper discrimination.’ So the Council of State and the majority side the Constitution § 98. They accept that we, who do not belong to the Sami people, are being subjected to incalculable and disproportionate discrimination in North Norway. I mentioned this in my post on the Northern Territory Communication: Why should an application to build on a cabin that is far from people, get over six months longer procedure time just because we live in North Norway? It is simply stated in the third paragraph of Section 5-4 of the Planning and Building Act. It states: ‘The merger may promote opposition to such plans on issues that are essential to Sami culture or nutrition’ — without saying what it is. It is sad that the majority accept the discrimination that is taking place, and that, indirectly, with this, we people living in North Norway are not worth anything if we are not Sami.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e967	I will not comment on the representative's proposal on the repeal of the Finnmarks Act and the closure of the Sameting, except to say that I believe it is both historyless and disrespectful. On the other hand, I would like to say a little bit about the mountain law in Nordland and Troms, which we in the Center Party are still experiencing being pushed into the blue. In the request decision No: 837 from the 2017 regional reform treatment, the following was adopted: ‘The government is asking the government not to grant the mountain law the same application in Northern and Troms as in the south of the Nordic border. The investigation shall assume that State Forest will continue to retain responsibility for forest resources. The investigation shall furthermore take the view that the existing Finnish law is being passed on within the current Finnish border, but not extended to new geographical areas.» The Central Party notes that all other parties are satisfied that the request decision has been referred to by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the State Budget and that the majority of the Economic and Social Committee here supports the reporting of the decision by the end of it. The centre party voted against, and we still believe that the decision must be followed up quickly. The government outlines a follow-up through the Societal Court Committee II, based on the 2007 NOU, but we don't know if we have to wait another 14 years. We believe that the mountain law should be followed up separately and quickly, and it has already been four years since the Stortinget made its decision. A further postponement is very unfortunate and very unfair for the people of Northern and Troms. We in the Center Party join the Association of Foreign Communities, the USS, in this case. Not later than four days ago, the USS had a thorough review of its member municipalities of its work for equal and local government throughout the country since its establishment in 1996. In that NOU 2007: 13, to which the government refers in order to push the work of the mountain law into the follow-up to the new law, a majority actually proposed a model of mountain law for Nordland and Troms. That is what we are now calling for, and we believe that the government's handling is elusive and that discrimination should continue. I have to be allowed to represent the head of the USS, who says that there are different administrative models in Northern and Troms compared to the rest of the country, is totally unsustainable, and it is unsustainable that nothing has been done too far. Large values disappear from the communities of these states, and values go straight to the state. The Central Party believes that it should be similar in North and Troms as in the south of Northern Ireland, namely that State and local mountain governments should manage resources jointly, and that mountain governments should be appointed by the local authorities. We see that the department does not accept municipalities that adopt their own mountain government, that is eleven as far as it has done, and that Statskog further manages 28 000 km 2 alone in Nordland and Troms. We believe that this is unfair, and that these are resources that should benefit communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e992	That the Progress Party is proposing to bring down the Sameting is no news. It happens every election year. This year they're really going to hit the big bang and they're going to drop the Finnmarks Act and also scrap the ILO Convention. The Central Party is aware that Norway and the other UN Member States have recognised the right of indigenous peoples to self-determination through the 2007 Declaration of Population and that indigenous peoples have the right to self-government in internal affairs. The question of whether or not to have a nationally elected body is clearly an internal Sami question. It's in the right of self-determination, and it's up to each other to decide whether to continue the Same. Paragraph 108 of the Basic Law states: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» There are both national obligations to facilitate and a division of labour in order to ensure and develop the Sámi peoples group. This is a result of the right to self-determination, both the obligation and the division of labour. The centre party believes it is important to show trust in the Sameting. There are good reasons to contribute to the further construction of the Sameting. It is important for the state of Norway to have a body that has the legitimacy to represent together. It is not least important to avoid conflicts, such as: The Alta case. With expressions like knowing where the shoe prints, etc., it is easy to say that no one knows better about the fortunes and challenges of the Sami society than together themselves. Together, there are the best conditions for prioritising the use of instruments and effective measures. The right, natural and appropriate thing to do is to continue working together to manage their own culture, their own languages and industries, as well as education and research. The centre party strongly disagrees with the fact that the Sameting is just a hearing body. It is a body exercising the right to self-determination of a group. That's democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1004	As well, as anyone, as Norwegian – I'm probably one of the few who can titulate themselves like that from this pulpit. Let me first say, to the representative Olemic Thommess: the northern regions are based on three people. You have to stop saying that they're based on just two people. It's the Norwegian, the female and the Sami. So to the matter: one just has to say that unfortunately we have ratified ILO Convention No. 169 on the wrong basis. The ILO Convention shall protect tribal groups. When you look at the Sami people, yes, you might have to say that the reindeer trials live in a tribal relationship – to distress. This is probably one of the reasons why neither Sweden nor Finland has chosen to ratify ILO Convention No. 169. Denmark has done so on the basis of the Inuits on Greenland. The Progress Party fully agrees with the Constitution's wording that we should take care of Sami language, culture and social life, but those obligations do not require a combination. It does not require a separate Finnmark property, nor does it require a separate Finnmark law. We can take care of the Sami language and society in an excellent way without those things. The heart language – there is the Advance Party at the heart. We have to take care of the Sami language. But I'll say to the big crowd here: it'll be too late to come in ten, twenty years, when most of the Sami languages are dead, and say we did wrong. As the status is today, it is probably just the Northern Sami who will survive. Since the establishment of the Sameting, the state of the Sami languages has gone only one way down, and they're dying out. Property rights are strong in Norway. When FeFo was set up, the goal was to be mastered in your own house, it was said so nicely. But in practice, we Finnmarks have become eternal tenants in our own area with the development that has occurred with the Finnmark property in the last ten years, by the fact that FeFo won't sell land. We only get rent, we only get party time. There are some who claim that this proposal is historyless and disrespectful. The representative of Bøkestad Andreassen was up and wanted Nordland and Troms to be treated in the same way as the areas south of Nordland by introducing the mountain law. But she did not choose to include Finnmark there, Finnmark must be outside it. Will the Centre Party support the establishment of the Hålogaland property for Troms and Nordland in the same way as FeFo?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1019	I almost had to take the word to clean up a little bit, I think, because when you hear the comments, it is clear that there are quite a number of people who have not been properly involved in the matter. No, the Progress Party does not promote proposals in each election campaign on this. The ILO Convention can only be terminated every 10 years, so the last time the Progress Party proposed to notify Norway of the ILO Convention was 10 years ago. The next option we have is in 2031, which is in ten years. I think it's a little neat that the people who say something about the matter also know the history. Norway was the first country to ratify the Convention, despite the fact that if you read the text, the original English text, it is obvious that it is directed at the indigenous peoples of South and Central America, in order to secure their rights. I can mention Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominica, Ecuador, Fiji, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, Paraguay, Peru, Spain, Denmark and Venezuela — as well as Norway. We note that in Norway this Convention is used to legitimise Sami special rights, despite the fact that the Convention has not been ratified by Sweden, Finland or Russia, which also has Sami-speaking inhabitants. Finally, a little prayer: if you are going to speak in the matter, get inside it. I'm sorry, but I still think it's wrong: there are 480 000 inhabitants in North Norway, so that's about. 18 000 registered in the same number. They live all over the country. If the 18,000 had lived in North Norway, they would have been 3.75 pst. of our population. Still, there are those who have the right to decide about us. As some representatives have said, we are a people, we are a country. Accepting discrimination because of ethnicity and allowing the minority, which is very small, to rule over the majority, is not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1030	Like the previous speaker, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, I believe that this debate in Stortinget does not appear to be the most knowledgeable of parties other than the Progress Party. It may not be so much to expect from a representative who comes from Eastfold, even though he behaves relatively arrogantly towards those with whom he disagrees, but I take it with me. What's a little more serious is that I'm not quite able to figure out what the responsible state council has in this area. I experience that the state council Hofstad Helleland – she has to correct me if I am wrong – refers to errors to our own constitution. She points out that the Constitution says that dating is indigenous. If that's right what I heard, it's okay if the council heads up and regrets that she misinformed the Storting, because that's actually wrong. The basic law states: ‘It is up to the authorities of the State to facilitate the security and development of their language, culture and society by the Sami People’s Group.’» It's § 108 of the Constitution. I asked the Council of State whether she could define the concept of indigenous peoples, which is not mentioned in the Constitution, but with which the government is hanging around at all times, and I have nothing else to report but that I feel that the Council of State does not fully understand that concept. She says that in that term, at least based on the answer she gave, it lies that it was the people who came first. Well, that's not what indigenous people are all about. The term "ur people" refers to the linguistic translation, which is a linguistic addition to the ILO Convention, where reference is made to the "indigenous peoples" and "tribal peoples". What is also the basis of government policy to define cohabitants as indigenous people is that these were people who lived in Norway before the border was drawn in the 1700s to 1800s. That's the concept of indigenous people, and that's the reason why you use the concept of indigenous people. So it's not about who was in North Norway first. There have lived people of different descent there for thousands of years back in time, but that's not what this is all about -- that's not what it's all about. I think the Council of State can clear that up, because that's not what this discussion is about. It's about having equal rights in this country, that we who live in North Norway, regardless of what we can refer to by genealogical boards, regardless of where our DNA comes from, have the same rights. This is when it becomes so incomprehensible that the Council of State continues to talk about it as if together is still a oppressed people in Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1046	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1051	I'm not going to quote the Constitution, it's now repeatedly quoted, but my view of the proposal from the Progress Party is that they are deleting the most important tools we have for just complying with the Constitutional Law. The Progress Party does not provide any alternative to what we should do instead of providing – for which we have a responsibility and which the Progress Party does not dispute – that the Sami people have the opportunity to continue to develop their society, their culture and take care of their languages. There will be no alternative from the Progress Party on that. I disagree with the democratic view that it is possible to derive from the rhetorical Party of Advancement, that everyone should do the best he can. For 150 years, the Norwegian State has systematically tried to eradicate Sami society, language and culture. Fortunately, it failed. It expressed its regret to the Norwegian State, first of all to the King. It was a trigger that we actually developed legislation in this room, adapted to Norwegian circumstances, in order to ensure that a minority is given equal opportunities to the majority population to exercise their rights. That's what this case is about, not translations or other technical stuff. It's about what policy we want to pursue to ensure that people in this country have equal opportunities. It has been necessary in the gender equality struggle to use tough legal instruments to ensure that women who were stuck in a glass ceiling can break through it. In the Planning and Building Act, we now have specific provisions to ensure the participation of children and young people. That's how you can take sector by sector, and you find lots of exceptions and groupings. But there is also something else serious going on in this case today. I believe that the Progress Party, with its rhetoric and its choice of words, helps to build up under the ethnic contradictions that exist, that have been there for many years, and that we feel. That's a strawman argument. I heard the representative Amundsen in a sluggish remark from the pulpit of Storting saying: 'and they can't Sami either.' No, why can't they? It was because the state – we – refused them that training. That's why a whole generation, not to say generations together, has not had the opportunity to learn their own language. Then we can have a discussion about how many people there live in Norway. Is there a people like this in the pulpit? Are there three people that the representative Strifeldt said? Well, in this room, a broad majority has repeatedly, both in writing and orally, determined that the Norwegian state is formed on the territory of two people. We can take the discussion, but so far it's fixed here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1067	As I was in my previous post, the ILO Convention is to protect groups of people living in a tribal relationship. We have the same situation in Norway, Sweden and Finland, but only Norway has chosen to ratify ILO Convention No. 169. Sweden and Finland have chosen not to do so because they do not believe that they live together in a tribal relationship, such as ILO Convention No. 169 points to it. I notice that the Central Party and the representative of Bøkestad Andreassen believe that Nordland and Troms must be treated in the same way as the areas south of Nordland. I also notice that the Central Party and the representative of Bøkestad Andreassen believe that this does not apply to Finnmark – we must not be treated in the same way as the rest of the country – despite the fact that the Sami population is perhaps equally widespread in Northern and Troms. When the Center Party is such a strong defender of the Sametinget, the Finnmarks Act and the Finnmarks Property, it appears very hollow and a little strange that the Center Party wants a different model in the rest of the so-called Sami areas than in Finnmark. So it's been claimed that it's a little disrespectful and historyless, this proposal from the Progress Party. The creation of the Sametinget and the match that started in connection with the Alta action, today appears to be a Sami action, a Sami struggle. For those who know the Alta action, the landowners along Altaelva started a grassroots uprising against the expansion of Altaelva. The champions and those who stood in the limelight of the Alta action have later believed that it was a loss of them to involve the Sami aspect in it. They are not rightholders in that area. But it was probably what formed the ground for the Sami uprising that started in the aftermath of the Alta uprising, and for the establishment of the Sameting. As I was in the beginning, we have ratified an ILO Convention on a completely wrong basis. It is claimed that we are taking this forward in every election campaign – that is not true. We have the opportunity every ten years. The last time we made a proposal in Stortinget to withdraw from ILO Convention No. 169 was in 2011. 2021, this year, was the next opportunity, and it is natural that the Progress Party promotes its primary policy when we have the opportunity in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1078	I was a little surprised that the representative Amundsen uses his intervention to want to discuss the Constitution and the ILO Convention rather than to argue for his own post, but if you want a clarification, both of what the Constitution says, and of what the ILO Convention says, I would be happy to help clarify it. It also applies to the relation related to the definition of indigenous people. There are no general or internationally accepted definitions of the term ‘ur people’. Usually, the definition of "hero-folk" characterises that it is not the dominant people in the larger communities of which they are part, that they have lived in regions from far back and before the country's borders were established. As a rule, indigenous peoples have a peculiar cultural basis based on natural resources, and they differ socially, culturally or linguistically from the dominant population. In the case of Basic Law § 108, it is referred to several times. We commit ourselves as a nation to facilitating the Sami peoples' group, that they can ‘safe and develop their language, their culture and their social life’. It is the basis of our policy. We have committed ourselves to ILO Convention No. 169, about indigenous peoples and tribal peoples. It defines indigenous peoples as set out in Articles 1, 1 and 1 (b): ‘people of independent States who are considered to be original because they originate from the peoples who inhabited the country or a geographical region to which the country belongs at the time of conquest or colonisation or when the current state boundaries were established and who, regardless of their legal status, have retained all or some of their own social, economic, cultural and political institutions.’» In Norway, it is clear that the terms of this definition are met together. The judgment of the Supreme Court in the Selbu case of 21 June 2001 states that ILO Convention No. 169 Article 1, 1 b, undoubtedly gives a common status as an indigenous person in Norway, also in the Southern Sami region. This underpins the policy of the Norwegian Government and the policy pursued by the Stortinget. If proposals are made to terminate the Sameting or to abolish the Finnmark property, one might think that the party had an interest in arguing why it was right – what are the objectives to achieve, why will it be beneficial – rather than discussing something that all in this room can gather about, namely what the Constitution says about co-operation, and what Norway has committed itself to through the ILO Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1096	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1101	I cannot say anything but that I am surprised that the Council of State is surprised that I actually expect the Council of State to act correctly, to deal with the concepts of the government itself, in a correct way, and not to contribute to bringing this debate down to a low level, for example. when she presents it as if this is a discussion about who was here first. What the Progress Party is engaged in is equal rights for all people. I record that in this debate, there has been more interest in spreading political specks, making speeches, rather than taking over the real problem that most people in the North know about, namely that the Sameeting and Sámi demands are part of playing up to conflicts, making it more difficult to develop the continent and contribute to ethnic conflicts that should not be there at all, actually bloating. It's a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1108	The representative Bengt Rune Strifeldt has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1113	As we have both the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of State in the Chamber, I thought I would raise a small issue in view of developments in Finnmark. Seeing the trend in reindeer numbers in Finnmark, it can be said that the reindeer numbers have almost doubled in the last 60–70 years. There is now a challenge to stop some projects because of the reindeer and pressure on pastures. It can be seen that demographic developments in the north are rather sluggish. You could say that we have Finnmarks to a large extent are red-listed, we are also, in the same way as Sami language. So a small challenge to the state councils is: do they see the challenge of the Sameeting and the same policy as they face, and the negative development of demography in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1118	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1136	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1143	The President explained what the matter is. The Committee points out in its position to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which are leading Norwegian policies in a number of areas, including the eradication of hunger, increased food security and the sustainable development of cities and communities. Furthermore, the Committee stresses that soil protection is a prerequisite for future food production and food safety. Protection of cultivated land will also contribute to less greenhouse gas emissions as a result of less need for innovation and less carbon losses from soil and vegetation. There are a number of comments from the opposition and from the minority in the vote, but the majority recommend that the vote not be taken today. So some comments on the matter: The left wants agriculture to be on the ground with nature, and soil protection is also about caring for cultivated and arable land. And, as the Committee points out, according to the UN's sustainability objectives, soil protection is a prerequisite for future food production, not least food safety. Protection of cultivated land will also contribute to less greenhouse gas emissions as a result of less need for innovation and less carbon losses from soil and vegetation. It is, of course, regrettable that a lot of cultivated land is being built up. There's no doubt about it. The fight for the best areas is precarious in many areas. The last example I have is that the Center Party and the Workers' Party want to build up a lot of the best zooyard around the Namsos airport. It is clear that this is a demanding situation in many cases. That's why we have to be very clear that it needs to be very good reasons for us to be able to break down at all. The soil protection target we set in 2015–2016 was important, and it is important that this is fulfilled in the future. I think that in today's situation it's right to wait until we get a new strategy forward, and I think it's also important that the new strategy is properly reviewed. That is why we and the majority of the committee support today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1164	Do you remember the map in front of the first-class board – the map that we could pull down, and that was often difficult to get back up, because the roll was stuck? On that map, there were almost two color shades that went on again. It was gray, and it was green – mountains and forests. Only a few small spots were yellow. It's our cultivated land. If we studied it more closely, we could see that it was to be found around Oslofjord, at Trondheimsfjorden – and then a spot by Jären. Otherwise, the yellow spots were very small and lay scattered across our long-range country. That's the whole reason soil protection is so important in our country: the fantastically important resource is so scarce. It's just 3 pst. of the map hanging in front of the first-class board, which is yellow, and which is cultivated. The reason why people have settled, for example. along the Oslofjorden and Trondheimsfjord, there was the opportunity to cultivate land in this country. The pressures on the earth are also greatest. This means that it is important for the Storting to have an offensive and forward-looking soil protection policy, in combination with a good agricultural policy, which ensures that we both take care of and use the scarce soil we have. That is why agricultural policy in Norway is quite simple if we agree on the objective that our citizens should have security and that preparedness should be better and not weaker. A sensible policy must always be based on the very map, the country we are, and the nature we have. That is why I am making suggestions on behalf of the Workers' Party, to ensure that the yellow dots can be taken care of and used in the future. In recent years, with different kinds of unforeseen events, whether it be drought or corona, we have learned that access to safe food is a vital part of the stability of society and the security of its inhabitants. So soil protection policy is also a very important part of the country's security policy. I hope for a good debate, and I hope that together we can achieve a more offensive soil protection goal in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1177	The representative Nils Kristen Sandrøen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1182	This government has done a lot to facilitate active soil protection. Nevertheless, there is a need to keep this tab high. We heard the representative Sandtrøen say here that only 3 pst. of the area in Norway is cultivated land, and only 1 pst. is for food grain. Re-disposal of cultivated land is now below 4000 deches per year. By comparison, the average re-disposal has been 7600 decaries per year for the period 2004–2013. In the period 1994–2003 it was 11 400 decaries per year. Here, there's been formidable things. Soil protection is important in maintaining food production, and priorities around what can be defended by redisposals may be necessary. We have been very clear on this in the current soil protection strategy. Then we have to admit that it is difficult to avoid all redisposals, for example. because it is necessary to implement projects, such as: transport projects. Then there is a balance between several considerations. This type of project is intended to be implemented as closely as possible so as to minimise the degradation of cultivated land. When it is now being built up, it is important to facilitate new cultivation. In 2019, 27 500 dean were authorised to re-grown. It's high. We are proud to have contributed to the government. We have a soil protection strategy that has worked well, and we have to keep holding the soil protection tab high. If we are to continue to have sustainable agriculture throughout the country and ensure that this is maintained for generations to come, we must continue the good work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1195	The representative Sandtrøen talked about the school map that hung down. In the South West it was like the map of the Holy Land had hung itself up, so we never got down the other map. But there were bad conditions also for the earth around the Lake of Genesis and the Dead Sea, I can say. In Jesus' time, which today was food important, and shall we have access to food, we must take care of our cultivated field. There is a button on the resource. We have good experience with the way we have worked, with setting us a goal and working to achieve that goal. That goal can also be used for cheap rhetoric, such as creating a time interval that fits, and saying that it is better now than before – that we build down a lot, but we also cultivate. Sorry, that is not allowed. The food soil is too important to be tricked away by rhetorical tricks. So it's important for the Center Party to say that we want a new goal of 2,000 deches per year, as a path to the zero vision, as we want. Our representative proposal does not intend to draw up all the world's actions; it is about setting an objective, and then we ask the government to come up with measures to achieve that objective. But it's not just about the goal, it's also about having a critical look at the reporting and the way we report it. Today's system is not perfect, as it says nothing about how much is built-in each year, says something about how much is re-disposaled every year. We also have significant land in this country that is economically and legally lost as a cultivated land but has not been reported because it needs more regulation. Ein has e.g. an area regulation that is very detailed, but due to the fact that a regulatory plan will be put in place, it will not be reported. But local politicians probably don't have the ability to stop and turn around. So we have to take care of that. In the debate on soil protection, there is a lot of creativity. Some of the things I want to strongly warn against are the shifts in land – that one municipality says: We do not build this area that is under construction in our municipal plan, but then they can build it down the further. That's not how it works. Whether or not to be close to achieving the soil protection objectives of all parties, we do not have room for building down everything that is going to be built down in municipal plans. So it's a currency or an exchange that has no value. So that type of shift has only negative sides. With that, I'll deal with what the Central Party proposal is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1212	The representative Geir Pollestad has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1217	It's barely a year since we had about the same debate here in the hall. But that doesn't make it any less important. It is good that agricultural lots such as the Senterpartiet and SV keep this case warm. Because, as has been said, food soil is a scarce resource, it is a vital national resource, and agricultural policy must ensure that the food soil is in good shape, so that one can produce at least as well in the future and preferably in a thousand-year perspective. We haven't been kind to our land, to our arable land; we're dealing with it – in terms of both deprivation and degradation. Since the war, Norway has built over one million targets of cultivated and arable land. It's violent. Now it's clear that soil is not just soil. There's a big difference in soil as well. Only 1,7 pst., e.g., of the area is in the climate zone that is well suited for food grain cultivation. So one can just imagine how little area we're talking about to fruit and green. The very jewel here is the vegetable soil, the garden soil, of which we don't have much. Green Lier, where I live, supplies the capital and much of Norway with berries and greenery. Here, too, you don't keep your fingers off the barrel – or you don't want to say the dish. On the contrary, several alternatives that the State Road Service is investigating for new four-field E134 to E18 go through some of the best food soils we have here in the country. Should it be possible to determine such trajectories in a state level in 2021? Haven't we come any further? It's natural to ask. The same is true of the Bane NOR, which is also not bound by the seas when it comes to tracing and which does not so far recommend a solution through Steinberg in the former Lower Eiker. Several hundred targets are lost, and fields are split up if the recommended path is followed. E6 north of Trondheim I'm not even going to mention. If there is any consolation: we were much worse before. Then we built down our feet and took the most accessible areas first – naturally. We can partly apologize for the post-war period, but now we can no longer apologize. Now that we've managed to meet the old soil protection goal, or existing soil protection targets, of 4,000 deches, we need to be able to set new goals. SV is involved in the proposal to set a target of 2,000 covers this time to get more behind that requirement, sail if last year we put forward a separate proposal of 1000 deches. Finally, I will mention new challenges that have come in recent years, and this concerns our new industrial efforts. Just think about the area required by the data centres. And I'm looking at the state council, which lives right near a big project in Kvernaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1234	In some cases, the Storting gets the treatment, the real distance between the different parties is less than debates and media lookups can give the impression. The representative proposal we are now discussing deals with such a matter. We believe it is right to say that the increased focus on soil protection over the last 15-20 years has gradually evolved into a broad cross-political effort. I could have used this post to polemise that the soil protection target set by the red-green government in the years ahead of 2013 was less ambitious than the 2015 decision to set a target of redisposing a maximum of 4000 deer of cultivated soil annually by 2020. I don't choose to do that. It was the Bondevik II Government which proposed in 2004 to halve the annual re-disposal of cultivated land and set the target figure at a maximum of 6000 deches per year. Soil protection policy was also underpinned by the Stoltenberg II Government, and the objective was achieved in 2013. There is also reason to recall that the proposal to tighten up the soil protection target to 4000 deches per year, which was discussed by the Stortinget in December 2015, was promoted by a Joint Nutrition Committee and unanimously adopted. The unique thing is that the Committee's comments on the matter, which were quite extensive, were also promoted by a Joint Nutrition Committee, down to the last comma. It's not every day it happens. Overall, it shows a very happy development in Norwegian policy. Soil protection has become increasingly important at all levels of government, including national policies. It was supposed to be missing, too. Food production is the most fundamental prerequisite for sustainable development and for preventing conflicts and wars. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, FAO, states that global food production needs to increase by 60 pst. towards 2050 to keep pace with population growth. The protection of agricultural land is therefore essential if the objective is to be achieved. We record that the Centre Party and SV will define a further tightening of the soil protection target to a maximum of 2000 deches redispatched annually by 2026. It cracks beyond the opposition, where the working party does not go so far and wants the target to be 3000 deches per year, while the Progress Party leaves a target to set, but stresses that they are against a zero vision. But again: In this case, we believe that polemics is not appropriate. The point is, it doesn't crack in the opposition. The point is that an overall committee is included in the following comment in the Committee’s opinion: ‘The Committee expects the government to assess a tightening of the established soil protection target when presenting a revised soil protection strategy. The Committee notes that the government is alerting them to consider including a target for re-disposal of arable land in the updated soil protection strategy.» The announced revision of the soil protection strategy will be presented to the Storting in a short time. It is understandable that the opposition is now trying to take the initiative on the rise side. However, we take it very calmly and look forward to the treatment of the new soil protection strategy when it is available. In that case, the objective should be a broad agreement on a revised strategy, as was the case in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1256	The food soil is our basis of existence. Everyone seems to agree on that. Since man began to cultivate the earth 10,000 years ago, it has been the very foundation of civilization. Most of the food to the world nearly 8 billion people come from cultivated soil. Just 1 pst. by Norway, it is suitable for growing cereals. At the same time, cereals account for more than a quarter of our energy consumption and are therefore the most important food in the Norwegian diet. The small area of Norwegian grain soil is therefore essential for the safety of our children. The Greens believe that Norway needs a much stronger national soil protection target. We therefore support the proposal to set the target of a maximum of 2000 deer crops per year by 2026. We believe that a specific objective is needed for arable land, and we therefore support the proposal. But if the food soil is to be taken care of for future generations, you have to go beyond that. The degradation of food soils is determined primarily locally, and when you sit as a local politician in an economically hard-pressed municipality, it is not always easy to propose or adopt measures that make the construction projects more expensive or restrict tax revenues. Taking care of the food soil is a typical measure of this kind, so often soil protection involves building elsewhere than where it is cheapest. Although I do not doubt the fine intentions and fine words of the Workers' Party and the Centre, which are constantly promoting good proposals, as in the position we are debating here today, soil protection is difficult to properly follow up where it is concerned, namely in local policy. Of the 25 municipalities that have built up the most cultivated and cultivated land between 2017 and 2019, 16 were run by either the Workers' Party or the Centre Party. With weak national leadership, it is easy to say yes to degradation. But soil protection is a national interest. Both for the environment, food safety and our children, it is vital that we stop building cultivated and arable land. The Environment Party of the Greens believes it is obvious that the food soil needs national protection. That is why we are promoting two loose proposals today. We ask the government to propose amendments to the law on soil that provide cultivated and arable land with real protection through a substantial tightening of the possibility of granting exemptions. In addition, we ask the government to ensure that exemptions from the protection of cultivated and arable land can only be granted by a national planning authority. With that I take up our suggestions, and will mention that Une has had children today!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1280	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has then drawn up the proposals he referred to. The President will also congratulate Une Bastholm on the child, which she has had on a very likable birthday!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1287	The most basic prerequisite for an active, future-oriented Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production is that we take care of the food soil – without soil, no agriculture. I'm happy for all the positive commitment to our food earth. Increased awareness of the value of caring for arable and cultivated soil is important and results. In March, there were numbers from the SSB that show that we are on track to achieve the national soil protection target for the fourth consecutive year. Good food soil is a scarce resource in Norway. A lot of people have said that in this pulpit. We only have 3 pst. cultivated land, and much of it is small cadastral parcels and demanding terrain. It's different with e.g. Denmark, where about 60 pst. of the land area is cultivated land. Soil protection is not only important for agriculture now; it is also important for the future. Taking care of the food soil is important to all of us. The sustainability objectives we have committed ourselves to act, among other things. on the eradication of hunger, food security and the development of sustainable cities and communities. If we're going to achieve these goals, soil protection is also important. That is why I, as the Council of State, together with Minister of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Nikolai Astrup, sent a letter to all the municipalities and county councils in spring, where we were aware that soil protection is of national interest, and that the municipalities must help to reduce the re-disposal of cultivated land. It is about the basis of local business, but it is also about preparedness, and it is about food security at the end. I feel that the municipalities took the signals, not only when the letter came, but also before that. Soil protection is not something we can cross on a list and say that now we're done with that case. We have to keep this warm all the time, be incredibly conscious, and we have to do what we can to get better, too. That is why I will soon come up with an up-to-date soil protection strategy in which we also assess the annual redisposal target. I look forward to delivering the strategy to Stortinget before this summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1298	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1303	In the summer of 2018, we received the worst drought in Norway for many decades. It gave us a very important practical reminder of why it is essential to take care of our food soil throughout the country. Because while cereals were scattered here in the East, the situation was quite different in Northern Ireland. There you could produce good roughage for our animals, and there was also more rainfall during the summer. The same was true of other parts of District Norway. What has the Minister of Agriculture been thinking about in view of the crises we have been experiencing in recent years regarding the need for a more offensive agricultural policy in Norway, which increases self-sufficiency corrected for imports of feed – using soil actively in all parts of the country, where we must also ensure that we take care of the soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1310	If the representative looks at the last farm business, we've been quite aware of how we grant just to ensure channelling, which is what the representative is really talking about. Only from 2019 to 2020 increased the production of cereals in deer by 65000. It shows a policy where a channeler. We must not have grass where it is suitable for cereals, because cereals are one of the most important calorie bombs – I kept saying – we eat. This makes it incredibly important for us to have good cereal production. And then we have to use the grassland where it's suitable for it, because there we can graze the animals or use the grass as feed for the animals, which are animals we're going to eat. Because we're still not there to eat grass, but we eat the animals that graze the grass. I think it's a conscious policy and a right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1315	That's absolutely right. Just in the cold water of that summer, there was a need to import more feed into the animals, including: from the United States of America. What arises as a challenge in that cold water is that then micro-organisms, fungi, come into Norway that we do not already have in our plant flora. It's extremely expensive, so taking care of and using the soil actively, is a very reasonable insurance that also provides jobs throughout the country. For a long time, rural agriculture has been under pressure. Among other things, in the West and in Troms, there is a great danger that parts of our land will disappear if the policy is not now improved. Therefore, the Minister of Agriculture now has a golden opportunity to turn words into action by providing a crystal clear signal that there will be prospects for rural agriculture, including: in the West and in Troms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1324	I would like to tell the representative again that he has to go in and read the settlements that I have been responsible for, and that have been agreed with the organisations of both teams. It's just that you've channeled. That means that yes, it's going to be using different species and different sizes, we're going to use Western agriculture, we're going to use North Norway. And we've done it, as I say, on area grants, but we've also done it on grants for buildings and investments – 45 pst. have undergone minor use, less than 30 cows. It’s about prioritizing and thinking — yes, it’s right, reducing risk, and getting better agriculture if someone spends resources all over the country. In some places, among others: in the West, there are fruit and berry growers in the areas where it is applicable, and then we see that in the slanted hills down towards the fjords is the grazing and livestock production which is the most remote. I think that is a good priority and an appropriate agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1329	The current soil protection target went out in 2020, and at least in the Centre Party, we have been tripping and have wanted to get a new soil protection target – new measures to help. It has appeared during the treatment of this matter that the government intends to present this soil protection objective before the summer. I, and the Center Party, had wanted this to be dealt with in Stortinget this spring, so that we had it in place in good time before the election. So my question is: why has a choice not to present the soil protection target and an up-to-date soil protection strategy at a time that would enable the Stortinget to deal with the matter now in ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1334	First of all, I think it's really great that I and Pollestad share our commitment to soil protection. I think that's good in itself. The second thing I want to say is that the soil protection strategy that we have should work, we should have it, for four years. I think it's wise to wait for numbers. We got them in March. That means I'm now working on a new soil protection strategy to strengthen the targets, because I think having a soil protection strategy that we're working on shows results, and I want to keep doing that. And I think we're going to be able to agree that this is an important strategy for caring for Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1341	The next question should be a little more concrete, and it is based on a local case in Rogaland, close to Kalberg. There's a question coming up: can we build a data center, build cultivated land, on Kalberg? Some other municipalities say that we can take the area out of our municipal sub-plan in exchange for this. So the area that is regulated at municipal level for re-disposal, changes one concretely into another municipality. It's probably above 20,000 dean in the North Jären that's intended for the construction or expansion of cultivated land, i.e. the sum of municipal sub-plans. So my question to the Council of State is really: does the Council of State think this is a good idea?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1347	First, I would like to refer to the matter to which the representative referred, from Kalberg. I don't want to go into that matter, simply because if it becomes an appeal, I don't want to talk me into it. But I hope that the representative has come to realize that we, our parties, have stood together politically locally in this matter. With regard to the long-term boundary that is common to soil protection in Rogaland, there is also a starting point in this case. I believe that switching in terms of soil degradation does not solve any problems. If we can regulate back again, using the area for agriculture, I think that's the best thing, because we don't have much of this resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1354	The last question is about something that I really don't like, simply earthmoving. Soil migration is an option when it's decided to build down, it's not an actual soil protection measure, but it's now shown to some farmers that it's quite complicated. They say yes to taking food to use it for soil improvement on their property, but it has proved to be quite bureaucratic and quarrelling to get permission. Then my question about the state council will address this and see if it is possible to make simplifications, so that one prevents the cultivation of land being deposited, but actually is used to strengthen and improve the soil for active farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1359	Firstly, I agree with the representative that it is not good to move the earth and believe that it creates the best soil. But instead of depositing it, it's much better to use it. And yes, I'll go back to the department and ask, where is that hemshoe? I would like to ask the representative to refer to some things that we can go in and look at, because I believe it should not be difficult. If the option is that soil is discarded, I think it's a resource we're going to use. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1364	Pollestad versus Bollestad -- that's a nice title, President. I want to follow up Pollestad's posts. Among other things, we now see that we get new challenges, as mentioned in my post here instead, with the green shift. There will be new, land-intensive industries. SV wants to welcome them, but we see that we have to set conditions, and then we see that, among other things. The data centre referred to in the previous question from Pollestad is very land-consuming. They're asking for large areas. It also does battery factories. We're in a wave of land challenges. So my question to the council is whether she feels that the government is prepared for this, also on the basis that the opposition institute is in many ways now the wing clipper of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1369	When we have 97 pst. other type of soil, it's good space for data centers or other type of space-consuming industry on the outside of cultivated land, if that's what we want. I also want to challenge the system a little bit, too often we just think into our own municipality, but if we look at our region, we'll be wise if we build maybe a place that won't take that earth, if we think it's an important resource for both the agriculture of the present and the future. It's sustainable – it's right in terms of our sustainability goals, both nationally and internationally. So there I mean yes. So the representative says that the state administrators and the objectors are the wing clip. If we have a soil protection objective, it is actually the duty of state administrators to object if they consider it to be in conflict with the objective of soil degradation – or redisposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1376	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1383	After the kind hint from the President earlier in the debate, I would like to start by congratulating the President on the day. Then I want to contribute a little bit to the story of the representative of Reiten. He made it almost as if it was a good mood when a mass of stuff went in for a soil protection measure of 4,000 pieces. It is probably right to say that one was aware of the goal and means of action, but it was for significant protests, especially from the daring Councillor Listhaug and her party. But there was a number on Stortinget that wanted a tightening of soil protection, and I feel that it's on the Stortinget now as well. So I hope that the Council of State in its work on the strategy will take on seriously the challenges that have arisen, among other things. through some surveys in the nations, relate to how one measures redispatch. Today's measurements report an input through KOSTRA at the time an area should not be regulated further, and this causes a mismatch between the actual degradation and the degradation that is reported. Over time, these will probably meet, but one has municipalities that can get the soil protection price one year, but three years before, they might have re-disposed a few thousand pieces and then have a development reserve for a long, long time to come. The second is to look at and map nationally how much land there is no legal and economic room for action to keep as arable land but that has not been reported. I think that's essentially about area-regulated areas. And then there's also a danger of attaching this too much to the physical degradation, because then one won't look at the direction of development until maybe it's too late. In addition, I would like to stress the importance of being aware of soil protection in connection with both road development, railway development and aerodrome development. As measures we want in such a plan, there are many things you could point out. One can point to the third runway on the Gardermo as the most concrete example, and one can point to openness around option agreements as an important tool. I believe that a value choice must also be made: Should local politicians be fully entitled to build up the basis of life for future generations? Or what is most important of local democracy and soil protection? For the Central Party, the food soil is a national resource that requires a national administration. It may include the Council of State as a contribution to further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1396	I thank the representative for the comments, because in terms of goals – where we measure, and what we register in – I have asked NIBIO as the Council of State, before this discussion came up in the Nations newspaper, to look at new ways of measuring and recording this, precisely because there is a mismatch between what is registered, what is redispatched, and what is actually built up every year. That's what NIBIO has already done. If the representative, as I assume, is also very concerned about transportation, it also says in the new NTP that soil protection is going to be important further in choosing routes, whether it's for road or for track, because we don't have too much of it at all. So the representative also refers to option agreements, I think we have a pretty common commitment there. It's a challenge in itself, and I'll come back to it in an appropriate way, either through the strategy – or where I want to put it. But it's an important part of what's the challenge. Finally, I hear the representative say that it is better that we draw these decisions to the national. I believe we should have national targets where state administrators will actually ensure that these targets are met. I also believe that there is quite good competence in the local population and in local politicians, who know how the shoe prints when it comes to coping with good decisions – if we put a good framework around this and also participate in and support the processes and decisions that are being made. We've shown in recent years that we're actually also able to stand in that storm, because it's a storm, and it's lobbying. But local politicians who think this earth is the most important thing for them, they do it, they do it gladly and with joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1405	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1422	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes per party group and 3 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1429	We're going to talk about one of the jewels of Norwegian food production and Norwegian food culture. It is, as the Committee writes, an industry that contributed, among other things: the second seven medals in the World Cheese World Cup just two years ago, and it is an industry that has had a strong positive development in recent years. As described by the Industry Committee, 100 million have been invested. kr in the ‘Fresh goats’ project. It has given very good results. Wisely and professionally well done work on both breeding, health and feeding has given us some of the freshest animals in the world, and it is the nutrition committee that impresses and highlights in the attitude. This case is actually a direct continuation of the case that we had in place. It's about having a food production based on the country we are, the nature we have. The Nutrition Committee writes that there are no other animals that are so good at exploiting foreign terrain as the goat, and then you can use grazing resources that would otherwise rot and go to play, if we hadn't had a ruminant as the goat. Unfortunately, we see that this industry is under pressure. As can be seen in the setting, there are also some new poultry and newly-implemented investments where users consider whether to step down. Therefore, a plan is needed, a better policy is needed to secure the future of goats in Norway. It's going to be a little less of what the Biggest agrees that we're going to have more of in Norwegian agriculture, so the policy has to be based on the map and the nature we have. Of course, there is also a responsibility for cooperatives to follow-up on this in practice, with both slaughterhouses, ironworks and the receipt of milk for goats, so that production can be carried out throughout the country. So it's a responsibility we share at Stortinget and the industry. But where the nutrition committee separates layers, it's an important point to raise for us in the Working Party and on the Red-Green side, because in the setting you can read that we almost get criticism to engage in the fight for a plan for a goat. We take that with very low shoulders because we believe that the matter is so important that action is needed here. If not, we can simply risk having many fewer goats in the next few years, despite the good work done in breeding, health and development of feed for our animals. With that, I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1442	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandrøen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1447	There are many reasons to be pleased with goat policy, because goat is so much more than just an animal that gives us meat and milk. Animals have been in the country for hundreds of years, they are the best people to care for the cultural landscape, and they are the very image of an active and living rural agriculture. Unfortunately, the goats in Norway have experienced a decline in recent years, and this is where the Committee distinguishes layers, between the government party and the Progress Party, which says that things are going well, as opposed to the opposition otherwise, the Centre Party, the Labour Party and the SV, who want to have a targeted effort to reverse a negative trend. This is about so many things. It's about getting the chains, the chain power, to do more to get the goat product sold in Norway. It is not the case that consumers choose to remove products from Norwegian goats every day. There are options to go to the purchasing department in our three chains. We also have a situation where we have a maximum milk production for goats of 900,000 litres. It's crazy tall. We need to spread this production on more than one. We also have a health project, Fresher Goats, which is a success story, from which other industries, other productions and other countries can definitely learn. A stronger policy is therefore needed to increase the demand for goat products, but also to increase production and more goats in Norway. I record that the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are very concerned that this could go beyond and weaken the negotiating institute. There is no basis at all for this. For agricultural negotiations, there is no vacuum, agricultural negotiations take place by the Storting saying something about measures, instruments and objectives, and policy-making, for example. an action plan, and then it is the parties that have negotiations on the basis of the policy design. Agriculture negotiations are taking place within the framework of the policy adopted by the Stortinget, but of course it will be a trade union which, in negotiations with the State, will take individual measures. Our representative proposal is much more. It's about having a big and focused effort to get more goats in Norway. This will mean that the whole of agriculture will grow, and this will make Norway a better country to live in and to be a tourist.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1465	It is quite correct, the representative Pollestad says, that the agricultural negotiations are not taking place in a vacuum, but at the same time it is quite special that the party represented by Pollestad will, on the contrary, instruct what the parties will agree on from this room. It's not going to come from the fact that the geita is important. It's important as a cultural landscape caretaker, definitely. It is important for the production of milk for cheese, and not least for meat production. However, it is not likely that from 1990 until now, as the Minister of Agriculture also points out in his letter of reply, this has fallen. In the 1990s it was stimulated to cluster production, to put it that way, to gather goat producers as much as possible in one area, in order to make logistics easier for TINE when they were going to fetch milk. To the extent that this hall has not created barriers to production, it is even cooperative that has shown the way in many ways that they do not necessarily want the fantastic product that the Sandtröen representative was in. So there is a significant responsibility on the part of the cooperative organisations in this respect. Today, as the minister also pointed out, there is a surplus in production. Of course, there are also opportunities here for many types of products in the future, but above all this alone rests on how it is rigged to accept the products of goat production. There I find it difficult to see that we can detail and control the cooperative organisations in detail. I register to the extent that the representative Pollestad wants it, which I think is a little special. There is no doubt that we want more goat production where possible, but in many ways it has to be done with agricultural organisations. I think we should be able to leave that to them, even if we stimulate, and even if we believe that the Geita is positive both for the Norwegian landscape and not least for the possibilities of meat and milk.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1478	The goat industry has long traditions in Norway, and goatmeat continues to play an important role in Norwegian agriculture, both in terms of high-quality dairy products and increasingly in terms of meat. In addition, goat farming is an important contribution to keeping the cultural landscape open. There is also reason to reward the industry for a very successful breeding work in the last decades. It has improved animal health and improved the quality of dairy products derived from goat's milk. However, it is a fact that the number of active caprine farmers has fallen sharply over the past 30 years. Around 1990 it was approx. 1 000 goat milk use in Norway. By 2020, the figure was reduced to 269. Nevertheless, it is not the case that goat industry is among the sectors of agriculture which are the worst source of income. On Wednesday last week, the newspaper Nations presented the latest updated figures from the Agricultural Budget Item, on which the parties base the agricultural settlement. It appears that a reference use of 144 years goats actually has a imputed remuneration for work and equity that is higher than, for example, the reference use of 144 years goats. a dairy with 49 years of age. It shows that the arrests of the government and the trade unions jointly taken by the State through the agricultural operations over the last few years have had a good effect on the remaining goat farmers. In the last ordinary agricultural holding, in 2019, before the coronary apathy, the animal premium for dairy goats was increased by DKK 190 per animal for use with up to 125 goats and DKK 100 per animal for use with over 125 goats. At the same time, the grazing premium was increased by 114 kroner per animal. There has been an important contribution to strengthening the economy of the goat farmers, and the figures from the budget topic show that the impact has been good. In addition, goat farmers may apply for different State instruments from the agricultural agreement, such as: grants for actions in grazing areas and SMEL funds for cropland management. At the same time, it is important to stress that the production of goat's milk must comply with market demand. Over time there has been overcapacity in the industry, and by 2021 a milk supply of 19.9 million litres of goat’s milk has been forecast, while commercial demand is estimated at 12.9 million litres. There is a broad cross-political consensus on the continuation of measures that contribute to ensuring that the goat industry will have a future in Norwegian agriculture and with satisfactory income development. Nevertheless, both the proposers and the opposition are aware that the Norwegian agricultural model is based on annual agricultural settlements. The design of the requirements is subject to severe weighing. It is also the case that the unions through the agricultural cooperatives, in this case TINE, are responsible for market regulation. This implies that the market must at all times be in balance with the income-related structural disadvantages which it may bring to producers, while at the same time ensuring that the best possible market price is taken into account. However, it is difficult for us to understand that the proposers and the other opposition parties choose to make proposals that violate the guiding principles. If the Storting is to start giving leadership to the priorities of an agricultural settlement while the parties are preparing the negotiations for the year, we are doing the whole agricultural service. Then we are involved in digging away the foundation under the negotiating institute itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1493	I share the view of the proposers that Geita is an important livestock in Norwegian agriculture. Geita produces food on resources that are otherwise not useful for human consumption, and not least contributes to cultural landscapes and food culture that are very valuable to take care of and not least to develop further. The assumptions for increasing the market in Norwegian goat’s milk have never been greater. Targeted breeding has contributed to high quality and higher value creation potential. At the same time, the Fresher Goats project, as several mentioned here, made it possible to rehabilitate parts of the dairy goats population for Losing Diseases. Fresher animals, healthier goats, have provided the basis for a sustainable standard raising of the goat population with significance not least for better animal welfare, improved performance, reduced feed consumption and improved milk quality with greater scope for use than before. There are great opportunities for local value creation and small scale production for growers of goat’s milk. A higher proportion of goat's milk than cows' milk is processed locally. When Norwegian goat cheeses were awarded a total of seven medals in the Oste World Cup in 2019, it illustrates that Norwegian goat farmers deliver good raw materials and have the initiative and the will to stand as citizens for the future of both the goats and the industry. I would also like to point out the possibilities of using goats for more than milk production, and I challenge the industry to bet. Norwegian goat farming is being stimulated today by a number of instruments through the agricultural agreement. It includes both production-oriented instruments, animal feed subsidies, welfare schemes and various types of development funds and business-oriented instruments. Overall, these instruments shall contribute to the industry’s having a framework allowing for development and foresight and to exploit the specific quality advantages actually enjoyed by Norwegian goats. In addition, strategies for agro-industry development at both national and regional level are being developed that provide an important basis for future development. I believe that this is a good basis for a positive development for Norwegian goat industry, and that goatmeat will also be an important animal in Norwegian agriculture for the future. I cannot therefore see the need for a separate action plan for the development of the goat population where we are now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1506	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1511	This has had some of the best debates on agriculture and food that have been in our National Assembly for decades. Now the thing is to go from talking to practice. Like the previous case, this is really about exploiting scattered Norwegian natural resources. In the last agricultural debate, the Minister of Agriculture and I disagreed, because the Minister of Agriculture refused to allow today's government to continue to administer the Listhaug policy. What I am asking is: with this Minister of Agriculture, for the rest of the time, do we want to see a powerful breach of the Listhaug policy, so that we can go from talking to practice and exploit more of the grazing resources that are now being used less, so that Norway does not continue to grow again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1516	I notice that the representative has also obtained a vocabulary that is from talk to practice, and if the representative reads both the results of Norwegian agriculture and the agricultural agreements, it is about using Norwegian resources. It's about believing in the self-owning farmer who prioritizes from the resources he has, in the farm he owns. Then, as Minister of Agriculture and also the National Assembly, I have the responsibility, in cooperation with the parties, to make an agricultural settlement that makes the framework conditions for the individual farmer good. That agreement has a clear objective, with both trade unions, in the last two years, and I believe that it is an agricultural policy that agriculture itself has agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1524	The results count, it's called – a good term. But the results now go wrong by reducing the self-sufficiency, corrected by what we import from cereals and feed raw materials. That's what I'm really asking, whether we're going to get self-sufficiency up and get better, instead of going down and getting lower and worse. There we have a clear common goal on the red-green side by making sure to work self-sufficiency up to 50 pst., corrected for imports of feed materials. That's really what I'm asking – the essence of whether the Minister of Agriculture will be with the red-green parties on that road for Norwegian soil and food policy, or whether it's actually the way it's going now, by weakening self-sufficiency, corrected for what we're importing from feed raw materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1529	In the previous row, the representative and I had a discussion about 2018, and the drought that was then. No matter who sits in the Council of State, and no matter who sits in the government offices, we can't always correct the weather, such as drought, rain or flood. But what we can do is we can help control the agricultural settlements. When one has a larger area, 65,000 deer, with grain production from one year to the next, I think it's more than talk, that one shows that one will actually increase self-sufficiency. One will increase the quality, because one believes that the best way to use resources is through the cooperation we have with agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1536	Finally, a short question, because the red-green side unfortunately gets some sort of criticism to suggest that we have an action plan for the goat, which is the concrete rug today. On previous occasions, for example: When the size of the population took the step-up decision, which is very important for food production to continue to exist in many places in the country today, the practical policy has been improved, precisely because the size of the population was found together. My last question to the Minister is this: Is it not better to agree on an action plan for the Norwegian goatmeat than to continue as it is now, with fewer and fewer in the industry, and that all the good work done in the field of health and milk quality is not valued as much as it can be, with a clear and clear statement of support from the Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1543	In my post I said that this is an industry that has taken great steps to improve, among other things. in the field of animal health, which has given quality of production recognised worldwide by means, inter alia, of: receive these prices for cheese products. However, any agricultural production must also facilitate a market that will have products. Now we don't have too little goat's milk. We're in a situation where we actually have to get the amount of milk we have. That is why I believe that the way it is now, we do not need an action plan. But I said, "Now" -- I said it on the pulpit, and I say it here. Because I think this is an industry that, based on both results, quality and the way they use their resources, goes relatively well with many other industries in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1548	In a look-up on the TV2 news, Emilie Enger Mehl, the central party’s staging representative, was out to mark the Senter Party’s proposal for an action plan for goats. She then visited a goat farmer who also had his own production of cheese. What was pulled out like the slippers there, and the obstacle there, to having the product sold, was access to the grocery chains and the store shelves. It has not been stated that the Nordics do not want the product of goats; it may as well be that the chains are restrictive in their inclusion of this type of product and the great lack of existing product. Then my question is: does the Council of State see that there might be reason to put a little extra pressure on the daily food chains to make them more absorb products produced by goats?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1555	What the representative is asking about here is also a very important measure to get provision on the market, so it is quite right in it. And in different kinds of productions that have had a surplus, or local food productions, I have met with each of the trade chains – just to open up and say that they have a responsibility to take this into the shelves, both to get a diversity, to secure local business in the areas where they have their shops, and to get the goods out to the customers. This applies to different goat products, but also to other local food production. And the Korona era has now shown that a lot of local shops have done so by making contact with their central joints. I think that pressure shouldn't just keep going, we have to have it all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1560	An important thing in the policy of having goats throughout the country is that individual uses do not have to be too large. Today there is a limit, a maximum, for the production of goat's milk of 900,000 litres. It's quite enormous, and my question is, does the Council of State see that there might be reason to reduce it the maximum?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1565	Now I don't want to go into such questions right now, but I see that it's an advantage to have an agriculture spread all over the country, and then I also think about goat production. Then there will be both less risk and one will be given the resources many more places. But I also see that there are some people who have invested in bigger things for a period of time. So these aren't discussions I'm going to take here first, but I see the challenge that the representative presents.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1570	Then I think I'm going to confirm that the Council of State has looked at the agricultural demands before she came to the Storting, so I'm not going to ask any more about that, but I'm going to ask a little more principle about the relationship between making political decisions in the Stortinget and respecting the negotiating institute itself. After all, we have tabled a proposal for an action plan, which we are now discussing, and what I think is a little strange, is that Norway's Bondelag, which should have every interest in calling about the agricultural negotiations, write in their hearing to the Stortinget that they support the proposal for a representative. Then it's a little strange that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party think this weakens the negotiating institute, because I don't think the Norwegian League would have supported it if it weakened the negotiating institute. Then is my question to the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that this proposal for a representative weakens the negotiating institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1579	It's like we have a lot of action plans, we also discussed it in the previous case, about the action plan for soil protection, so we're taking the lead for the Storting. But I am concerned that we are in a situation now – we got the demand today – where we are going to enter into negotiations, and I am concerned that in those negotiations, one should both take the demand seriously and one should make an offer to ensure an agriculture throughout the country. Then I believe that discussions like this must also be part of the priorities of an agricultural settlement. So the organisations are in their full right to support it, but as a politician I am very concerned that I don't want to weaken a negotiating institute, because I think it's a good move in our country to ensure an agricultural policy that is stable and predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1586	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1594	We record as expected that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre disapprove of the concern expressed by the majority that proposals of the kind we are dealing with here can help to weaken the negotiating institute. The fact that the representatives spend so much time and energy on dismissing it shows that we've made a sore point. To illustrate this little bit, we refer to a proposal that the Workers' Party launched in April 2018, i.e. just a few weeks before the agricultural settlement was to start that year. It was a proposal that was costed by Agri Analysis to approx. One and a half billion. kr this year in the incomprehensible future. In comparison, the requirement set by the agricultural organisations today is just over 2 billion. kr. This means that the Labour Party made a proposal, three weeks before the negotiations were to begin, with a cost framework of 75 pst. of what is currently the requirement of agriculture. I also see in what has come out of agriculture today that the Norwegian League of Bonds chooses to give priority to sheep and lambs as an industry that they will promote in the course of the year's negotiations, while the Centre Party has proposed that it be the goat industry to be given priority. Then I would like to ask the representatives Pollestad and Sandtrøen: do you really not see that this is problematic? Such proposals can be promoted when one is reasonably sure that they will not be adopted, but let us now say that this had been adopted in the Stortinget – the plan promoted by the Workers' Party in 2018, the action plan promoted by the Centre Party today. How should the parties deal with this, when the proposal is for consideration in Storting on the same day as the farmers' organisations submit their claims? I think we should get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1603	The Reiten will have an answer to that. It's the turn of ordinary people to get work and security across our country. The policies we adopt here will be positive for citizens and communities for many years to come. That's where there's a little misunderstanding going, for our proposals – The Workers' Party's escalating plan for the 2018 spring – actually put the nail on the head in the problems that only arose two months later, with the drought, but unfortunately it was depressed. If that plan had been adopted, of course, the industry would now have far more and stronger positive tools to renew milk production around our country. It would give jobs to carpenters, electricians and other service industries around the country, who now really need activity and work. It would be a hugely positive investment for people to live, work and live in all of Norway – of which we need more. So yes, the policy will be effective. It will work over several years — as did the escalating decision in its time. And then we can challenge the representative Reiten back: does he think it was wrong that the Storting made in its time a clear and clear step-up decision that several parties were behind, and that over the years that followed provided the basis for both reasonable investments based on the natural resources that lay around the country, and to ensure a better economy in operation? I don't think Reten would say that was stupid. On the contrary, it was very smart for our country, and we now need offensive policies that are based on the actual ground and what the actual figures from the SSB show about the proportion of the population at work – or how small the proportion of people at work is. In my own home country it is in some municipalities up to 40 pst. outside the labour and business sphere. Of course, the National Assembly shall make offensive decisions that look several years ahead in time, in order to secure people's work and safe food. It was just supposed to be missing. It's our most important task here at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1614	The representative Steinar Reiten has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1619	The representative of Sandtrøen will receive an answer. What he refers to happened in connection with the presentation by the government of Solberg's report on agriculture. It is in such situations that the size should give leadership and paint with a broad brush and tell the government what the course should be. The interesting thing at the time was that both the Workers' Party and the Centre knew that they were without any real influence in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party wrote a lot of the comments that the Committee later joined, and there were indications of an agricultural policy that we are standing by today, and that we feel that we can show with pride as this period approaches the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1624	I sat and heard with interest from the representative at Sandtrøen's post. In my opening post in this case, I was also a little bit within the cooperative companies, which is actually part of the overall basis. The representative Sandtrøen is moving a little bit more towards an image about unemployment and such, and it might be that it would be interesting to debate it. But we now have one thing in front of us that is about a Document 8 proposal on the future of goats. It is interesting if we go to the step that we are going to instruct the processing companies and the processing industry owned by agriculture itself – because in many ways it is actually put up by several representatives who have been involved and spoke for this proposal. The representative Sandtrøen has not mentioned this in a single word, other than that he said that there was also a responsibility on them. But he did not tell me how to do this either. Are we going to instruct from the Storting how to set it up, how to drive the economy forward – which will strengthen the industry, which will strengthen rural agriculture, which will strengthen the whole, which will also facilitate more jobs, and not less? So we can have good intentions around the goat industry. I remember the 1990s, when TINE put up cluster operations and then bought out most of the goats' milk production in Trondelag, because given the logistics, it was not life-created to drive this further. What we're adding up to today is instructing agriculture. Even though the Farmer is positive about this, I am very surprised that one will be instructed in this way. I thought they'd be able to figure out how to rig the economy in both the processing companies and the industry, and not least for agriculture. When we see the answer from the Council of State, we have a surplus within goat's milk production per today on rough fly 7,000 tons, as I can see. No answer has been given to the Sandtrøen representative. He comes with a lot of great transmembrane postulates without at all moving into what the matter is. Now I hope Mr. Sand Tread in the last minute he has left of his speaking time, can give us an answer on how the processing industry and we're going to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1635	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1654	Norwegian agriculture is fantastic. Agriculture is an important part of our national preparedness. When it comes to preparedness, we have our own food production, just as important as having soldiers. Agriculture is the basis of the food industry in Norway. The value chain attached to food is our largest mainland industry, so it's about great value creation and a lot of jobs. Agriculture directly contributes to jobs throughout the country, but also in related activities, agriculture creates many jobs. Having a living agriculture is important to our travel life. It affects what our country looks like. Farming is important for spreading the composition of the population – the composition of the whole country. The starting point is that Norwegian agriculture is fantastic. But Norwegian agriculture is also very vulnerable. There will be fewer farmers in Norway. The agricultural environment in individual rural areas is becoming more vulnerable. If you think about going from 20 to 5 farmers in a village, you can still maintain an agricultural environment, but if you go from five farmers to one or two, you get a lot harder. Norwegian agriculture is based on knowledge. It's based on theoretical knowledge, but it's also based on the knowledge that goes between actors in the industry. Our farming environment is vulnerable. The demand for food is also vulnerable. Import is increasing for many reasons. We are increasingly giving quotas to the EU through the so-called Article 19 negotiations. The trade in food that is beyond all tariff quotas also increases. One agrees to reduce the requirements for agriculture in different free trade agreements, and at least in situations where there is no coronary apathy, we see that border trade is significant. The more imports make agriculture vulnerable. In one way or another, we have organized ourselves like this in this country that there are two families or three chains that are responsible for the marketing of all the food. The chain power is formidable. It'll be less and less profitable to produce the food. We're going to have fewer and fewer people to produce the food, but it's going to be more and more profitable to sell the food. It's produced as good things in the media when we get more and more to sell the food, while it's called efficiencies when one gets fewer and fewer to produce the same food. This makes Norwegian agriculture vulnerable. There is also a vulnerable link to a difficult generation shift. The settlement of many communities is on its way down. It seems definitely into our agriculture. The same applies to the use of land, grassland. Both because productions are out of use and because of, for example, Crustaceans are difficult to exploit, and Norwegian agriculture is vulnerable. I think I can be behind the scenes for what one is doing now, and the agricultural negotiations that have started today. I don't want to go directly into the ongoing agricultural negotiations. I would like to think that the Storting should take an override discussion about these things. A peasant revolt is also taking place in the country. What is the core of the peasant rebellion? Yes, I believe that more people in this room will take responsibility for it. It is that it is described as a reality, the situation in Norwegian agriculture, in which many farmers do not recognise themselves. This may be due to the particular income and income side of it. What has fascinated me a little bit about the peasant uprising is that it unites those who run the smallest customs in the districts, with those who have invested large in the central strata. The economy is under pressure from farmers throughout the country, and a description of the actual agricultural situation is given that one does not recognize. One senses that there is an income gap up to other groups, while one senses that it is a comparison is not real. Where other groups can take it as income and go to the store and buy things, they must cover costs for agriculture, both for capital and for example. land rent and/or milk allowances. It is probably right and sensible that the farmers' uprisings demand that we look at the way we describe the development of agriculture. During periods, there are changes in agriculture. Developments are going smoothly, but there are also some changes between them. In many parts of agriculture, there is now quite a lot of investment going on. What's a challenge is that it's the milk robot that is largely dimensional to the size of its use. Use is suspended, production is collected, so the capacity of a milkrobot determines how much is used. It may go well on the Jären and in Westfold, Eastfold and parts of Trøndelag, but it's not going well in the whole country, and we have to take care of that. There must be resources on the individual garden to determine how large we should be and how much we should be required to invest. Because it is not possible to have gardening with 50 cows on Agder, in large parts of the West and in North Norway. That's what I think is important that we get hold of. I would also like to warn against a development where only one gets investment on the major uses. The day one comes in the situation that the big use is modern while the small and medium-sized are old-fashioned, is not far away from the fact that only one is left with the big usage. Then the area will go out of use, simply because no farmer has neither the pay nor the capacity to beat as many cadastral parcels to get the grass that the animals need. I hope that we can get a new view of investment, that we will make a reality that there will be investments on all types of use. Then it's just as it was said in the previous case, that the Storting draws up the long lines associated with the processing of the agricultural message. Inner. 251 S for 2016-2017 all in this room should have on the night table. The agricultural message setting is an important, exciting and beautiful document. This could also affect agricultural policy, for example. in the context of the treatment of the State budget, in the context of the revised State budget, but also in the context of representative proposals, it is possible to give political leadership. The size is completely free to do that. To what is the theme of this interpellation, namely how to obtain and organise an agricultural operation throughout the country, it is probably about income for the farmer to a large extent. I'm going to leave it a little bit short, because it's an ongoing agricultural business, but I want to point it out with investment. More means of investment are needed. We see that the investment funds are used up quickly, and we have to make sure that the investment funds are set up in a way that makes it unnecessary to increase the capacity of more than the garden has. It should be possible to have a modern, efficient and safe use that is adapted to the resources of the garden, and we must have it throughout the country because the resources on which we feed are distributed throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1685	It is said that ‘timing is everything’. At least we're writing today, April 27. This is the day of the start of the year's agricultural negotiations. Today, at 10:00 a.m., the trades presented their demands. As you can see, one would have liked to have said that there is a good time for the current treatment of the Pollestad agricultural interpellation across the country. I am a major supporter of the Norwegian model, where agriculture and the state jointly sit down and discuss economic frameworks and priorities within the framework of the economic instruments of agricultural policy. I am also in favour of the tradition that when negotiations take place, those negotiations take place in the negotiating room. I now look forward to reading the requirements and looking into how agriculture has given priority to this year's negotiations. Then the state will submit its offer in a week. There, all interested parties, including the representative Pollestad, will be able to go into the government's priorities in the course of the year's negotiations in detail. I will therefore stick to the big picture today. It's interesting and exciting enough in its entirety. Agriculture throughout the country is one of the four main objectives of agricultural policy. This is the cross-political agreement, and I am pleased about it. With a scattered resource base across the country and limited areas suitable for food production, we need to have agriculture across the country to ensure national food production at a high, stable level. Scattered farming across the country is also a robust agriculture that contributes to the particularly good status we have with regard to the low incidence of plant and animal diseases. It provides low drug consumption, limits the use of sprays, and provides safe food. This is also in line with the UN's sustainability objective. One of my predecessors said that our country is far, it's wet, it's cold, and it's steep. Our country has also been created in such a way that we need both small and medium-sized uses to exploit the resource base and to exploit the production potential that exists. The assumption of having an agricultural holding throughout the country for small and large uses is that it is profitable in production. The government has therefore given priority to strengthening the regional and structural instruments in recent years’ agricultural settlements. Channeling is the columbi egg of agricultural policy. In Norway, only 3 pst is known. of the area that can be cultivated, and there is one third of the agricultural area that can be used for plant production directly — and then directly for food — while the remainder is best suited to grass for the ruminants, i.e. for grazing or grazing. Through the geographical division of labour with cereals and vegetables on the best areas and livestock production in the rest, we achieve the following: we maximise food production, we ensure self-sufficiency, and we get good regional policy impact. This government has taken action to strengthen the channelling policy, and it has worked. 85 pst. of the applications for appropriations under this Government have gone to the districts by strengthening the geographically differentiated grants. We have also phased out the stimulation of grass production in grain areas to stop the increase that we saw there before. We have strengthened the structural profile of rural and livestock subsidies and introduced a specific grant for small and medium-sized applications. It's important for the districts, because a lot of less use is right there. Furthermore, we have increased the appropriations for the shipping arrangements, which are important for farmers to get the same price regardless of geographical location, and we have strengthened the economy of cereals, potatoes and vegetables, which reduce the incentive to move to grass-based production in the best areas of the central strata. We now see clear signs that these measures have worked. In fact, weed areas in the East increased by 16 pst. under the red-green government. Under this government, they're reduced by 2 pst. And I can't imagine how happy I am that for the first time in a long time we have seen an increase in the grain area, of 65,000 deer from 2019 to 2020. Milk production is the support column of rural agriculture. The industry is in transition, and many have invested in new loosing and automatic milking. These are investments in welfare for animals and people. As of today, 34 psts are produced. of Norwegian milk in stall poultry, while the proportion of stall poultry of the total number of dairy poultry is about. 57 pst. I agree with the representative Pollestad that it is necessary to invest in idle operations on small and medium-sized applications to maintain safe national food production throughout the country. This is also the background to the fact that this government has given priority to providing investment grants for the modernisation and upgrading of agricultural buildings in the annual agricultural accounts. In 2021 the frame is well and well 664 million. kr. The scheme has a clear rural profile, particularly through the distribution of grant funds through the county distribution key. It ensures investment throughout the country. As the representative Pollestad addresses, there is a particularly high investment need as a result of the requirement to operate in cattle production, which enters into force in 2034. In order to ensure the preservation of all types of sizes of use and not only the largest, investment projects with up to 30 cows have been specifically prioritised in the last farm returns. This priority has also had an impact. The proportion of projects supported after expansion has increased from 25 pst. in 2016 to 45 pst. in 2020. The investments that have been made have a long-term perspective. The large amount of money we look at for investment grants across the country must also be understood as an expression of optimism and willingness to invest in agriculture, and especially among young people, who are the future of agriculture. I think that's a pleasure. The resources of agricultural property are basically the starting point for a wide range of products and services. In the last 10 years, there has been a large development among agricultural-based enterprises that exploits the resource base of agricultural property in new ways. Developments are particularly visible within the local food area and it has not come about by itself. The construction of strong food and tourism regions has been a priority area, where resources from rural agriculture are used in new products and concepts and also provide the basis for employment, value creation and the construction of a strong reputation both for agriculture and for each region. The government has also committed funds to follow-up, including: through the development programme for agricultural and reforestation-based growth and value creation. The recently submitted strategy for the food chain Norway builds on this and shall be a common platform for Norway as a food chain by 2030. This is related. Here I would like to underline the interaction between volume production and small-scale production, between the preservation of traditions and innovation through innovation and across sectors. It is an important starting point for building a forward-looking Norwegian agriculture that contributes to employment, which contributes to the creation of value added in agriculture throughout the country. Agriculture throughout the country is important for this government. We have shown that through active policies, and that is why I look forward to today's debate. I think it is wise for the Stortinget to gather on a debate and thank the inter-pellant for putting this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1715	It would not have been against me having this debate yesterday, the day before the agricultural negotiations started, but I respect that he was set up today. So I think that in discussions between people who are safe on their own identity as followers of the agricultural negotiations, they will have a little more room for action before they risk the negotiating institute. It is true that the parties most often warn that it will weaken the negotiating institute, generally those who are least able to trust when it is the responsibility of the negotiating institute. I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. It reminds me that much would have been different in agriculture if the Stortinge took responsibility in the spring of 2017. Then we had a Right-front party government that provided an agricultural message that was quite dramatic. A communication called for a reduction in the welfare measures in agriculture. It was a message that arranged to shut down the freight bill, that the power-feed-based productions would find their location on market terms, I believe it was stated in the message. This means that the pigs and hens should be moved almost possible to the slaughterhouse. That's what that means. In the field after field, there was a reference to the principles of agricultural policy, and it stopped Stortinget that spring. It was very important. Then is my advice in connection with the agricultural negotiations: use Innst. 251 S for 2016–2017 industrious, because it says a lot of good, and it is a reference to a lot of good policies that will give what is most important: agriculture throughout the country. So I also think it's important that you're aware of these discussions. You can always find some numbers that go in the right direction or that go in the wrong direction. I think the most important thing, as I see the Council of State doing, is that one recognises that there is a link between agricultural policy and the results that one achieves. There's a little too many people who are busy with local specialities, but they don't understand that the local cheese wouldn't have been possible to produce if it wasn't for us to have a dairies that worked, which those who wanted to start up could be based on. In the field by field, there is a link between agricultural policy and the political results that we see. One thing that still remains at home in Norwegian agriculture is the changes that the majority of Stortinget made in spring 2014. I hope we can adjust several of them now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1726	I agree that the representative did not crash when this debate came. I don't think he has that much power. I think it's a completely different place. It was only appropriate to say what the day the demand came. But that doesn't exempt us from talking about the Norwegian model. Because yes, I think politics works. Yes, I believe that the cooperation of the parties with the organisations of agriculture, and the negotiating institute, is an important value in the Norwegian society. I'll tell you why I think that. It's not that many years since we had a war in the Balkans. When they were to build up the country after the war, Norwegian agriculture was asked to be involved in the construction of the country. It was about so much more than just producing food. This made Norwegian farmers, among other things, from Jären, where I and the representative came from, used a common municipal industrial development actor and were in the Balkans and helped rebuild the country. So having an active agriculture is about building the country, it's about using our resources, it's about seeing that everything is related to everything. It's about saying that we hadn't had the largest continental industry, with all the production we have as complementary industries, as food developers and as food industry, if we hadn't had an active agriculture. I think that is fundamental to our policy. Therefore it was also such that when the Christian People's Party made a choice to go to government, agriculture was an important piece. Yes, we had the history of 2017. But it's also a matter of value to use resources in our own country. When we see what the world is like, when we see the challenges, when we hear what the United Nations is asking us to do, we have nothing else to do, I mean, but to use our resources properly and base it on our work in this. I've met this industry throughout the pandemic every week. It is an industry that has been willing to cope with a situation when our country has been in crisis. We have increased production because we have had closed borders. This means that we have an agricultural sector that is important for preparedness, but it is also important because it will help build security so that we, as a nation, can develop further. Agriculture is an important industry for our country, but it is also an important industry for self-employed people, and finally I want to say: I think that the biggest challenge for our agriculture is that we should manage to keep them as self-employed people – that not everyone else should decide, but that they should actually be allowed to be self-employed in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1739	Jørn Skoe on the left wants to renew her milk production. He has 22 dairy cows and has contacted Innovation Norway. But Innovation Norway says no – Jørn, you’re too defensive, you need to get a bigger quota, more animals. There is a completely misguided policy, for what is then happening in practice is that at the end of the day, Jørn gets a choice – either to liquidate or to assume greater debts than he wants to. Last week we read about Sondre from Telemark in the same situation. He runs farm dairies with local further processing and sewing – a type of production for which everyone is in celebrations, but the question is whether the practical policy is followed up. For as of today, Sondre will not have access to a sensible way of renewing its use, because Innovation Norway will say no, you will have to take on more debt, get an extra allowance – which has become increasingly expensive in recent years. At the same time, if one self-employed person is to be supported by this policy, another must be supported. So one's possibility is going to be the end of another. We in the Workers' Party want that to end. That is why our national meeting has adopted a very clear policy that this support needs to be improved, and it needs to be adapted to the country we are and the nature we have. That is 180 degrees away from Sylvi Listhaug's centralization policy. Who more than Sondre and Jørn will experience positive prospects if this policy with sensible investment becomes a reality? Well, at least it's construction industry all around Norway's country. For what production is it that can be as decentralised as milk production? There are very few, if any, in Norway. This is why the NHO Inland is very positive that we are now taking a larger decision to step up investment in and renew milk production around the country, because it will be entrusted to a large number of construction companies, self-employed and entrepreneurs across the whole of the country. It's so big it's bigger than Denmark. And Denmark is leading us to an agricultural policy that we are not going to have in Norway. For the policy that Sylvi Listhaug tried to pursue, as referred to here in previous articles, has failed in Denmark, and a policy that gives excessive and non-sustainable debt growth in Denmark will at least fail in a country like Norway, with fjords and mountains. It's a law of nature. The backstop of some of the so-called peasant rebellion is at the heart of this, when we talk about large debt withdrawals, because in reality there are a number of people who have been trapped in many ways; they have accepted the terms of taking larger quotas, taking on greater debt to get the opportunity to renew themselves, and on the contrary, the income and the economy are not operating in the same way as the large debt to be served. It must be possible to balance, because the policy of centralisation — one’s death is apparently the bread of the other — will never be able to function in the long run, because no one can lift fjords and mountains, no one can change the geography of our country. It's like it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1754	We can be proud of the agriculture we have in Norway today. We have low consumption of antibiotics, and animal welfare is one of the best in the world. Behind these good results is the Norwegian farmer, and it is in place to send a great thank you for the job they have done, especially now under the corona. Farming across the country is a goal many of us in this room agree with. It contributes to stable self-sufficiency, good preparedness and provides a basis for rural settlements. In order to achieve this, the government has, among other things, enhanced the channelling policy, and the districts are satisfied by differentiated operating grants. We have also introduced a specific grant for small and medium-sized applications. This contributes to agriculture throughout the country. We have also suggested that it should be profitable to grow a little larger in the areas that it is appropriate, a little larger so that it is possible to use technologies such as: the milk robot, that it becomes profitable. And here it's not about sizes like industrial agriculture in Denmark or in the rest of Europe, we never wanted that. The size must be related to the surrounding environment, to the surrounding area, to the dispersal area, e.g. Growing a little bigger often leads the farmer to become more robust and more able to use this technology, as I said. It also does something about animal welfare to have a milkrobot, and not least it gives the farmer a more flexible everyday life. Agriculture is facing some challenges in the future, and the Right Agricultural Network has today had an early meeting with the agricultural uprising, the Farm uprising 2021. This morning we had this meeting, and they gave us touching stories about where they felt the shoe is pressing. Everything will probably not be solved overnight, but we in the Right are concerned that farming in Norway will pay off. We in the Right Agricultural Network have proposed a point in the Right Programme for the autumn that the basic figures for the Agricultural Budget should be reviewed with a view to creating confidence in the basis for agricultural operations in the years to come. We know that many farmers have invested and invested, which is basically very good, and it shows a belief in the future and a desire to keep on farming. However, we have to follow up on the level of debt, which has been discussed by many here. Maybe it's not that it's always necessary to invest in trillions to upgrade their feathers. We have seen examples of possible agricultural conversion at a lower cost. We could recently read in the Nations about Kjell Myhrer, who is a medium-sized user. He has upgraded and modernised his old forehead by thinking creatively and a lot of self-help, and this came out with a very acceptable cost. This is a story that gives hope that we can also get out of business in small and medium-sized poultry, not only in the largest. The government has contributed to this by facilitating the investment of farms with less than 30 cows. In the last three years, 15-30 cows have been the most common size of a dairy farm — after investment — and by 2020 half of the supported investment projects were less than 30 cows. On the right, agriculture will follow closely in the future to be a guarantor of food production throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1769	I would like to begin by stating that it is a political responsibility to ensure that we can operate agriculture throughout the country. The majority and the government have a responsibility to facilitate this, we cannot unilaterally push this over to the parties in the agricultural settlement. It is also a responsibility for growth and government to ensure that we have an environmental and climate policy that does not jeopardize the natural basis, which makes it difficult and uncertain for the agricultural industry to continue. We know that a warmer climate will lead to, among other things, imports of undesirable species, both insects and plants, which would make farming difficult in Norway. We have to have an agricultural policy that makes it all talk about, namely agriculture across the country and taking care of the food soil, is actually governing. It hasn't been quite like that in the last few years, and it looks like more people now understand. When the Progress Party was released into the Ministry of Agriculture, there were major changes that made what was difficult before, worse, among other things. what we've seen in terms of size and investment — while just getting big enough, you need less government grants to run. Unfortunately, that is the opposite, because the debt burden in the investments that must be made is so high that it cannot be borne by the operation. That's what's at the core of the peasant revolt that's now. There are people who have followed the government because they said they should do this – they have invested in good faith, and then it doesn't work anyway. Then it is incredibly important that we both manage to save those who are now sitting in the scissors, and that we are able to reverse this shot so that we get to the necessary investments on the uses we need that are scattered and that are going to be small. As others here have said, this is a case in point. It's about spread, it's about distances, it's about where the food soil is. I've talked a lot of times from this pulpit about talking a lot about the full-time farmer, and honor be to them. But the large majority will be part-time farmers, i.e. combined users, because there are many who are small. It's not safe it's just wrong, because being a modern farmer on a large scale today is often a very lonely job. It's 30 years alone on the tractor, that's it. There are a lot of people who don't think it's a tempting future, so being able to have a job next to it might be what makes you want to keep running the farm that isn't so big that it's a full-time use. We need to have an agricultural policy that takes this into account. There must also be better welfare arrangements. We live in a modern society, where farmers, too, need to have holidays, leisure time, disease safety, etc. And then we could have discussed what is more detail in this, but I think that in terms of Norwegian geography and Norwegian food soil, we are so different that we can't look at others when it comes to this. I fully agree with those who remind us that we need cooperation and that cooperation is absolutely necessary for agriculture. We have to hold on to that. It is absolutely essential that the cooperative and customs protection are in place. However, it is also important to stimulate small-scale production, those who also use special products in the market, because it is very important for development. They produce good products and also make it possible to produce well on some small units – which are not so large today. But you're completely dependent on each other. I just want to end by stressing the importance of customs protection. The government is negotiating about this now. It is unacceptable if it is to be weakened in the future. It will be the most dangerous attack on Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1784	It's very nice with such an initiative that we can talk a lot about this important industry in this room. The agricultural industry is important for the Right in Government, and we have been constantly engaged in facilitating a wide variety of farming across the country, with opportunities for good operation based on the operational basis, just as the representative Pollestad highlighted was important. The main element of agricultural policy is the channelling policy. Right-wing government has helped to strengthen the channelling policy and thus helped reverse the negative developments we saw under the red-green, as the grasslands in the grain regions increased. With our policies, we have arranged for the weight of grass-based livestock farming to be in the districts. Now we are in the middle of this spring's most beautiful adventure, the agricultural negotiations. This is something I am not going to do at all now, but it has been difficult not to bring the peasant uprising. But I also register the statements of the leader of the Nordland Bondelag, who takes a distance from the uprising and asks them to arrest the negotiating institute. So I just want the parties to be happy for more in the negotiations. But a little review might be good to bring with you. If you see the entire period we have had — the almost eight years — as a whole, budget support per cow has increased two to three times more for use with 15 cows than for use with 60 cows or more. In recent years, we have also facilitated the use of fewer than 30 cows to make the necessary investments. In 2020, half of the supported investment projects were used with less than 30 cows. So we know that there's a desire for more, and that's good, because it shows that there's an optimism out there, it shows that they want to bet, they want to stand on, they want to build new to customize. I feel that there is strong support in the government to maintain a varied and good agriculture throughout the country, precisely because agriculture is important for the whole country, for employment, for housing, for activity and not least the activity it brings in other industries. We all remember the horror picture from the Center Party from the 2013 election fight. It should not be possible to get hold of lambs for sheep cabbage, there was no way we were startled with. The pheasant shows a completely different picture, fortunately. I think the most important thing we can do as politicians is that we have to keep forwarding Norwegian agriculture. Although the representative Pollestad is a little concerned that we are using this hall to promote Norwegian agriculture, I think it is important. We have a responsibility to show that there is an optimism out there, so that those who want to bet, also do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1801	Yes, it is important to have agriculture throughout the country. I'm in the situation that I talk quite regularly – every day, in fact – to people in the industry. It's quite simple, because I'm part of the industry myself. Hardly any industry has shown such a kind of innovation in the last 20 years, but of course there are some clouds that lie over. The minister said 34 pst. the milk is still produced in stall poultry, and if one counts each stall poultry, the proportion is 57 pst. of the total number of dairy poultry. It's high, high numbers. Although we may have the highest rate of expansion in modern times, there are, of course, some clouds above this, and that is that the cost of capital is reasonably high. We've barely had such an extension since the Hitraksion. Of course, this also makes there are some clouds ahead. How do we deal with this when we also know that new construction is a major factor in structuring? We are in a market anyway, and I think it is good that we have this debate today. Although the entrance to this is that the trade unions have now delivered their demands today, I think that at least there is a clarity I have not seen before in this room here, a very clarity on a very positive approach to Norwegian agriculture. So I want to bring a little thing before I continue. In a previous post, perhaps a year ago, or something like that, a representative from the Central Party has obviously misunderstood me and thought that I wanted us to eat the cereal. No, what I said at the time, however, was that seeds in many ways are one of the most important things we have. If, on the other hand, I am going to choose between it and having food stockpiles, I believe we should choose to have stockpiles of cereal. Agriculture is based on four pillars, and I believe, as many have mentioned, that the channelling policy, in view of whether we are going to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, is very important. I would also like to point out that customs protection is extremely important, because in a country where we operate the Arctic line, it is clear that we do not necessarily have the same kind of assumptions as the rest of the world to run an agriculture. That is why we must also have strong customs protection. We want to have a variety of agriculture. I was in Finnmark last year and I was in a lot of poultry. It's offensive, and it's optimistic. At the same time, with what's above, that one wants to make the rational, new choices, it's of course that we also have some challenges, but I think those challenges are definitely manageable. There is no doubt that the farmer will be the solution for the green shifted forward. We see that man-made climate change is likely to cause us to say almost the green desert in the Mediterranean region and Spain in a few years. Therefore, it will be important — not just for Norway — to have a strong food production where we are not as vulnerable as in the western part of the world. We have many advantages: safe food, good animal welfare and little use of antibiotics. This I think will also be a great advantage when we're done with the pandemic. It could also give some possibilities, actually, to export Norwegian food. We've got a processing industry that's completely at the top of the world. I believe we have a better state now than in 2013. When we're going through this, of course, it's also important that we think about how to recruit to the industry, because recruitment to the industry is important in the future. We want to get Norwegian youth into the industry, and then it's important that we also talk the industry out, that we don't talk down the industry, but we say that there are opportunities here – opportunities to actually be with and deliver clean Norwegian food into the future. The future can not only be a robotization, but that the farmer is also the solution for the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1821	When I take the floor now, it is because I feel a certain need to defend Innovation Norway. When what I experience as one of our own, i.e. the state's own, institutions and instruments, is criticized, I think it might be natural to defend them a little bit. It is hardly precise to describe it as that Innovation Norway requires substantial expansion of production in order to receive aid. On the contrary, when a reader reads the criteria for obtaining aid for investment in the operating buildings of Innovation Norway, it is explicitly stated that one provides support in part of the schemes only to maintain existing production, inter alia. on change of ownership and generation. In addition, it is also clarified that aid is not granted to increase production in cases where there is no need for increased production in the market. What Innovation Norway requires is that the farmer does not invest over capacity. What innovation Norway requires is that the investments made are profitable, or at least ensure that the farm is as profitable after it is invested as it was before. It is, as I experience it, a protection for the farmer. It is a protection in the professionals and the experience of Innovation Norway, taking into account what is needed for a farm to be profitable. They use that competence by advising farmers to make investments that make sense. Thus, Innovation Norway acts as a defense against farmers taking on unmanageable amounts of debt, not as a marketer for farmers’ over-indebtedness. I think it is important to emphasise here, because here we have skilled professionals who have contributed to increased productivity and profitability in agriculture through the support schemes they have administered, who have a long experience of contributing to this, and who also have good experience in telling us about which investments are sensible and which are not. Note: it is profitable after the grant has been deducted from the level of investment. It means that it is given very reasonable advice, and it is therefore ensured that the farmers do not accept anything that is not reasonable in terms of farm operation. So, of course, someone can choose to do it anyway. It must be legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1832	This is not the worst debate I've heard in Stortinget. I am pleased that many are involved in agricultural policy and the fight for Norwegian food production. I'm glad that a lot of people might have a little short memory of what a private party has stood for and fought for. I think that with the signals that are now, it should be a fairly simple matter for the Minister of Agriculture to agree with the government in order to provide agriculture with a good basis for negotiations. We have to take seriously the uprising that's out there, because it's real, and it embraces all parts of agriculture. Then I want to take leadership in the Northern League a little bit in defense, because if one sees what he has said in the nation, it's not taking a distance from the peasant rebellion, it's taking a distance from the requirement of dissent, and I know there's different opinions about that. But the basic thing about the peasant rebellion is that one should get a description of the income that one recognizes. This is a requirement that the Centre Party fully supports. Now, the year’s negotiations will be based on the figures of the year, but when we deal with this in the Stortinget, it will be possible to lead next year’s agricultural negotiations. It is a matter of recognising: if we are to have an agricultural policy throughout the country, we need a policy to adapt the whole country. There are some value struggles we have to face, and the fight for customs protection is one of them. Everything else in agricultural policy is really not important if we fail when it comes to customs protection. It is also the case that the fight against overproduction with market regulation is entirely decisive. One may be for different parts of agricultural policy, but it is not possible to imagine Norwegian non-cooperative agricultural policies that do not have a market balance. It is a huge advantage that Norwegian agriculture has. We have to take seriously what is outrageous. I feel like we have an agriculture that is more common than ever. The pandemic has shown the importance of having a national food production. When it comes to the rounds we've had in Stortinget for the commercial industry, where two family members and a cooperative run all the trade – three units control everything by 200 billion. kr in turnover, they take huge money -- we have to take a spec with that slider distribution. I'm very glad that that's exactly what the Minister of Agriculture has full opportunity to do with this spring if she wants to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1845	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I would also like to say that the entrance gate, without going into the details of this year's agricultural settlement, is on the basic material that the parties have agreed on all the years up until now, and that is a very important principle. So one can ask if those numbers are recognizable or one. That is the basis we have had as a starting point and agreed to be the starting point for this year's negotiations. So it's important for me to say that we have an agriculture that has both small, large and medium-sized uses. It's not like everything was better before, it was quite a lot of use that was put together for large poultry and large units also earlier. So I think we're going to think together that there have been challenges, and there have been challenges over time in that regard. It is not all that is small that is good, and it is not all that is great that is always good. It's incredibly important to bring it with you. But we have a willingness to have an agricultural policy across the country with different structures. Then I would also like to say to the conclusion that we have an agriculture that more than anyone else – they have the shoes on – knows when climate change strikes. We in this room have talked about 2018 many times as an example. It also made it possible for a climate agreement to be reached with agriculture itself, where agriculture has set itself the goal of reducing emissions. I believe that is a certainty both because they take responsibility and because that is the solution. The solution is that we have the ability to bind CO 2, we almost have the opportunity to have our own natural CCS through Norwegian agriculture. We're going to show that knowledge and that opportunity. At the same time, I would like to say that Norwegian agriculture is one of the most forward-looking in terms of using emission measurement and measurement technology, and which assumes that one should not inject more than necessary, based on what kind of feed one should have, that one should have good outlets for milk production, for example. This is knowledge that agriculture is contributing to its own industry. I think it is also an opportunity window for Norway to go beyond its own borders and show a way of farming that is sustainable for the future. I believe in Norwegian agriculture, I believe in the Norwegian model, and we will also work for that in the future, both as a government – regardless of who is sitting there – and in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1861	With this, the interpellation debate is on case no. 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1879	Along the entire Norwegian coast you will find the same story: the sea provides people with food and work. From fjord to table, there's an unbreakable bond. In North Norway, along the rest of the coast, we've always lived by the sea. The sea, which for generations has given us great values, gives us great values, yes, it even gives money in its pockets to kids cutting toads. At restaurants and in the many homes around the world, 37 million meals are eaten every day with Norwegian seafood. Think about it – every day, all over the world! The income from seafood is what will very much give us well-being in the future. If the fisheries and maritime food policy is to have legitimacy, it must also have people along the coast as heirs. This requires trust, which is achieved through dialogue, local ring-effects and workplaces. We have many good examples of this, for example. on Senja – look at Husøy and how to work in the Senja Maritime Cluster – and on Helgeland, with Nova Sea. Marine industry is in many ways a success story and one of our most important industries. It's a profitable district industry, it's food production, it's an export industry, it's a future industry. In 2020, we exported salmon and trout for over 18 million. kr – maybe a small drop from the previous year, but given that the restaurants around the world are closed and we are not travelling, this is a huge number. New markets are also opening up. The Seafood Council may report that South-East Asia, Thailand and Taiwan provide new salmon markets for Norway. In Thailand salmon has now become the most popular fish to eat. Even under the pandemic and lockdown, consumption has increased. In other words, we have great opportunities like marine and marine matation, through the marine farm. In the Workers' Party's recently adopted programme, we aim to double the value creation of aquaculture by 2030. It's an ambitious goal, but we have faith in the industry and have high ambitions. We believe that Norway should lead in the development of the world's most productive and environmentally friendly aquaculture industry, with the production of food for a growing world market, because we are going to live off the sea too, create jobs along the coast, and seafood is part of the green solution of the future. But at the same time, we see challenges. In order for industry to grow in line with ambitions, sustainable development of the industry is a prerequisite for growth. How are we going to achieve the growth that we're ambitious about? What will the Council of State do to ensure more sustainability while ensuring the competitiveness of industry? In the spring of 2015, when Stortinget dealt with the Solberg Government’s forecast of the aquaculture industry, there was an agreement on the traffic lighting system. We now believe in the Workers' Party that it is mature to be further developed with more environmental indicators. It is also necessary to invest in new technologies and innovations to achieve the objective of increasing production. In 2015 the Stortinget also adopted a system for farming on land, and the Workers' Party believes that we also need to look at the legislation here. Land-based facilities provide large and often irreversible interventions. There is a great need for energy, and there are also questions about fish health. In the media, we have seen that the Minister for Fisheries has arranged for more breeding to enter enclosed facilities and that a new incentive system is being considered to contribute to this. At the same time, we see that semi-closed facilities in fjords and coastal areas allow us to take advantage of our comparative advantage along the coast, with clean water and good power conditions, and it is also more reasonable than large facilities at sea. The Labour Party also believes that we need a technology-neutral approach in laying down the framework for the further development of the aquaculture industry. We need to base our decisions on knowledge and focus on sustainability. We also believe that we need to look at how we can develop the advantages we have as a port, with cooperation between marine industries such as the maritime sector, oil and gas. Our strong maritime environment along the coast and our competence as a port provides us with competitive advantages that we must build on. The Labour Party believes that it would have been in place with a more offensive commitment to technology and innovation, where the State also takes a more active role. It is also natural here that both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Industry are engaged. How can we facilitate projects that can contribute to the development of maritime nutrition while further developing the aquaculture industries? Can more of the developments take place here in Norway? Now we see that much of the development is taking place in other countries, among others. with sea farms built in China. Is the development of the Norwegian supplier industry a focus of the aquaculture strategy? The development concessions, which also show that there is a great deal of creativity and a lot of innovation in the industry, were something that could be applied for until 2017. Will there be new rounds of development concessions? Numerous and local connections – is there something the government is focusing on? Is it working to secure jobs on land so that total value creation can be increased? We also see that there is scepticism towards the industry – which I would say is getting bigger the further north you get. Perhaps there are also bigger conflicts with the fisheries. Maybe we can avoid conflicts if we have a greater value chain focus, thinking about ring-effects, building community on resources? Co-existence is incredibly important in developing marine industries. We have a common responsibility to manage our fjords in a way that ensures that we achieve sustainable growth. People and society must be involved, and politicians at all levels must make demands and expectations of the industry while at the same time facilitating and exploiting the Community's land and resources in a good way. The production fee that we have now decided to introduce is important. It contributes to ensuring stable and predictable income for municipalities that make the area available for farming. In addition, we have the Aquaculture Fund, which is also very important. The government has decided to change the fund's facility. We have not supported that. The municipalities should get more, but from next year, the Solberg government has decided that more of the revenue should go to the Treasury. It is also becoming increasingly important to be able to demonstrate that the fish has been produced in a sustainable way. Consumer interest affects us. The documentor Seaspiracy is now among the top ten on Netflix. It also causes more people in several countries to take a distance not only from the farming industry but from all the seafood. I have seen the Kardashian stunt to the Minister for Fisheries and must admit that I think it was polite. But what more do you do to meet the resistance that comes from some environments? It is important to disseminate knowledge about Norwegian seafood in general, but it is also important to ensure the reputation, reputation and future value creation of the farming industry, so that we can ensure that people make informed choices and secure markets. We have to get people to eat fish. It's important. Both the Minister for Fisheries and I agree that we must eat more fish. Bets such as those on Geitmyra in Kristiansand are important. Learning families and kids eating fish and learning how to cook fish is important. I've been to a fish cake contest at Geitmyra. It's very inspiring to see kids talking about fish that way. It's important for generations to come to eat more fish. Preparedness is also important in maritime food policy, and access to feed is the main concern. Today we are too dependent on imported feed. We believe that in the Labour Party we have to do something about that. We need a commitment to develop raw material for fish feed here in the country. We need to become more self-sufficient and not so dependent on imports. Sustainability is also important in this context. The Labour Party has programmed that we will stimulate the increased production of Norwegian produced sustainable feed, with the aim of ensuring that all feed for the aquaculture industry will be from sustainable sources by 2030. In other words, a lot is happening in this area, and a lot has changed over the six years that have gone by since the government issued the paper on the aquaculture industry in 2015. But instead of submitting a new message, such as: The Labour Party has wanted, the government has chosen to develop a strategy that is not to be anchored in the Stortinget. In order for the Storting to gain insight into this important work, to have the opportunity to discuss the framework conditions for this important industry, I have therefore chosen to promote the interpellation. Then I simply ask: what are the plans of this strategy? What are the Government's plans for the aquaculture industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1917	First, I want to thank the interpellant for giving me the opportunity to talk about a very important regional and coastal industry, which has become more and more important for Norway in recent years. I also feel that I agree very much with what the interpellant refers to in his article. Salmon is one of the things that Norway is best known for in the world, and I feel it is a broad consensus also politically that this is an important industry. We have done a lot, and it is important that we tell you what we have done, cf. discussions going on outside the world, including around sustainability. The marine industry is an industry that consists mainly of family holdings, some large and many smaller. It is an industry with a high degree of local ownership and commitment not only to its business but also to its community. It produces local ring effects and mass activity along the coast, as well as the contribution of Norway to a world that needs healthy sea food. The Norwegian economy is in a transition phase, and aquaculture has grown to become a significant industry in Norway. The marine industry is an important contributor to coastal settlement and employment generating Community income. The government has also implemented significant local ring-effects to the aquaculture communities, which have facilitated the aquaculture industry. But the potential is greater than what we've achieved now. The marine industry can and will become even more important for Norway in the future. Before the summer, the government will present an aquaculture strategy and the aim of the strategy is to facilitate the release of the value creation potential of the aquaculture industry within a sustainable framework. The world needs more healthy Norwegian seafood, and aquaculture is an important part of the solution for Norway’s way out of the corona crisis. Among other things, through its profitability and the willingness and ability of the industry to invest, the aquaculture industry could be an important force in providing jobs and housing in District Norway. What Norway needs now, more than ever, is more jobs in the private sector. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of Norwegian business, which is dependent on Norway. The aquaculture industry is such an industry. The strategy shall indicate the direction ahead of the industry. As the strategy is being developed, there is little I can say about the concrete content, but in the light of the interpellation, I think it is natural to say something about the work on the strategy and the topic that it can address. In the strategy, we'll see a little bit into the future, 10 to 15 years, and how we can make it easier to exploit the potential that the industry has, even better. In working with the strategy, it has been important to me that we have had a broad and inclusive process. That is why we have organised a wide range of engagement meetings with both industry, environmental protection and animal protection organisations, different clusters and underlying establishments. We have received very many good recordings, both in writing and orally. In many ways, this interview debate will also become a sort of a recording meeting, because the strategy is not finished. Many people have pointed out that fishing health and welfare is a fundamental challenge, which we need to address better than what we are doing today in order to achieve further growth. The mortality rate in installations has to be reduced and good methods have to be established to quantify the degree of well-being. The climate and environment have, of course, been at the centre of many recordings. For example, important issues such as ensuring sustainable feed resources, the potential for increased circular economy, electrification, zero emissions and more maritime transport of fish to the market have been identified. The same applies to known challenges such as the preservation of the wild species. In this context, it has been pointed out that there is a need to invest in production with more safe technologies and other innovations that can contribute to the further development of the industry. The representative Myrseth has pointed out in his interpellation that it is becoming increasingly important to be able to prove that the fish is produced in a sustainable way. I fully agree with that, and there is a growing trend out there that customers require such documentation. The EU taxonomy process is a good example of what is going on. In order to reduce environmental impacts and cut emissions, the Workers' Party announces that the government will engage in dialogue with the maritime food industry in order to establish a binding agreement, in accordance with the agricultural model. I very much agree that it is important to prove that the fish is produced in a sustainable way, and there are several ways to ensure it. Many breeding companies and their suppliers are already doing this because the market requires documentation. On its side, the Government, in Climate Plan 2030, has proposed to introduce a requirement for zero and low-emission solutions for feed fleets and vessels associated with farming facilities, with a phase-in phase from 2024. In my view, this requirement is more binding than a climate agreement as the representative outlines. I also experience a great deal of innovation and innovation in the industry as regards the green shift, circular economy, such as. sludge collection and addressing other sustainability challenges. Developments towards more closed installations coastally, in addition to addressing sustainability challenges, will also lead to the availability of more sites, not only for salmon farming, but perhaps also for new species, such as cod. The licensing system is a basic framework condition for the industry, and we've got a lot of input into this development. These recordings take place, among others: on the further development of the traffic light system, that the coast of Norway is a natural advantage we still need to exploit in breeding and that technology neutrality is important. It is not unexpected that more than one input is about how a permit system can take into account land-based farming and marine farming. We have been told that the allocation legislation should be updated and that the sectoral authorities are not properly coordinated. This is an important theme, as it is natural that we address ourselves in a strategy. Further development of government is something we work with every day. It's always the potential to make things easier, while at the same time taking care of the environment and sustainability. Norway is one of the leading nations in the field of digital interaction between business and the public sector. The strategy will therefore look at how, through digital interaction, we can reduce resource use both in industry and in administration, get even better interaction, and how we can improve the knowledge base through increased data sharing. Ensuring access to the area of seafood production is a decisive precursor to the further development of the industry — in the same way as taking care of food for agricultural purposes. Recordings encourage holistic thinking and look at new measures for co-existence. Regional and municipal planning under the Planning and Building Act is important to facilitate a sustainable aquaculture industry and to ensure local anchoring, and we will also mention this in the strategy. The same applies to criteria for better coordination between the design and building law and legislation related to the aquaculture industry. This will be mentioned in the government's coastal strategy, which the Minister for Regional and Digitalisation will present before the summer. As I mentioned earlier, farmed fish are one of Norway’s most important exports. Without market access no business. It is essential that Norwegian farmed fish have good access to the markets. The strategy therefore naturally refers to the efforts of the authorities to ensure good market access to the main markets. Norway is a small country, and we rely on good cooperation with the world out there to ensure our products market access. Any industry depends on stable and predictable framework conditions. For one of our main district industries, stable and secure market access is a base for the whole industry. The world's population is increasing and needs more food. Both the United Nations Panel on Food and Agriculture, FAO, and the OECD point to aquaculture as one of the keys to the transition to a healthy and sustainable global food system. Norway can and should contribute here. Norwegian seafood is healthy, it is safe and produced in a sustainable way. The government has great ambitions on behalf of the industry. Finally, we have no intention of bypassing the Stortinget. There may be several follow-up points from the strategy that need to be anchored in the Storting. The strategy shall be consulted at a later stage in order to provide broad opportunities for participation, even after the strategy has been presented. I would also mention that in earlier times, and by previous governments, strategies have been put forward without having been within the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1959	The interpellant debate will continue after voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1971	Before the vote began, Mr Lundtigen has asked for the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1976	This applies to Innst. 356 S for 2020-2021 on the follow-up of pension application decisions. There will be no vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party, because there is uncertainty about what the consequences of the proposal are. That being said, we will only be quite clear that the forthcoming social security settlement must be carried out in such a way that the deviation between the estimated wage growth in last year's social security settlement and the actual wage growth in 2020 must be corrected first, and then the wage growth for 2021 will be equal to the year's front vocational supplement of 2.7 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1983	Then the Stortinget is ready to go to voting, and we vote first on the remaining issues from Thursday 22 April, agenda no. 71.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e1994	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister's foreign policy statement: [[Announcement delivered at the Storting meeting on 19 April 2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2026	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Liv Signe Navarsete on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that police helicopters take over anti-terrorism preparedness for the police, which Bell-helicoptera on Rygge has today.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2055	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that at least 3 of Bell-helicoptera incl. personnel corresponding to 4 crew and support staff/technicians are relocated to Bardufoss, in addition to the existing Bardufoss department.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2072	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government until new helicopters are in place, ensure that the Army has helicopter support, and retain competence both in the Army and in the tactical helicopter environment.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2096	The Central Party and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2108	Case No. 7 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2120	During the debate, Mr Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and the Progressive Party. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2132	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2144	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the protection scheme and to make proposals for legislative changes that strengthen and improve it.’ The Left and Christian People's Party have announced support for the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2161	The vote will take place at the next voting time on yesterday's map, Agenda No. Seventy-two. Case No. 1 was an explanation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2182	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2201	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Svein Roald Hansen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and Red proposal No 2, by Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party Proposal No. 2, by the Socialist Left Party, the Green and Red Environmental Party, says: ‘Decisions to the law amending the Tax Act I [[removal of the possibility for municipalities to set the tax rate for wealth below the maximum rate]] In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income is amended as follows: Paragraph 15-2 first paragraph is replaced by the following: [[1]] (a) the maximum rates of taxation of the municipalities and counties of income; (b) the rate for taxes to the municipalities of wealth. II The law enters into force from the time the King decides”. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2262	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that municipalities making local decisions to reduce the municipal part of the property tax shall not be compensated either through the income system or by any other means.» The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2413	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2449	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2459	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2735	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for amendments to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in order to take into account Decision No. 622 is followed up. The payment must be made before 1 November 2021.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to ensure funding for the additional costs incurred by the local government in the context of a change in the regulation of public service pensions. The financing shall be provided in the context of the revised national budget for 2021.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2761	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests a calculation method for pension regulation in 2021 and compensation for 2020 based on actual figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for income statement and not on old estimates’.» [[TBU]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2788	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e2986	The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3005	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No 2-6, from Erlend Wiborg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The amount requested by the Government shall ensure that the rate used is 10,2 p.p. of the daily money paid during the calculation period.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that there is no requirement to receive daily allowances for at least 8 weeks.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3040	President! Did the Right, Left, and Christian People's Party vote correctly? I suspect they didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3045	Proposals Nos. 3 and 5 from the Progress Party, Red has announced support for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3050	President! Then I think it's a misunderstanding. The Right, Left and Christian People's Party shall support the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3055	So the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party must also support the proposals. 3 and 5 from the Progress Party. So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3069	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that holiday pay is calculated for daily allowances received throughout 2020 and 2021.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked not to introduce a ceiling on holiday pay because the calculation basis is the total amount of daily pay received in 2020 and 2021 respectively.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3087	President! The right, the left and the Christian People's Party shall also vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3092	Then the president has reason to believe that everyone should press the green button.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3102	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 amends the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3259	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3341	President! Sorry, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3346	There were 46 votes in favour and 40 against. – The proposal from the Progress Party is therefore welcome. Case No. 8 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3382	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3392	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-13 and Case No. 17 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3403	Case No. 1–6 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 93 to 98. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3641	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharakhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2–6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget with proposals that the responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18 be transferred to child protection, so that they are given the same rights and care as all other children in Norway and that care is regulated by the Children’s Protection Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to legislate on the overall requirements for care and the content of the offer to lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18.’; Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary amendments to bring the Norwegian system of reception for lone minor asylum seekers into line with the obligations of the Children’s Convention and to ensure that children who are asylum seekers have an equivalent offer compared to other children who are subject to the care of the State, including the provision of equivalent requirements for staffing, competence and reception as in child protection institutions.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘In 2021, the Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with proposals to establish an independent supervisory system for asylum reception operations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a proposal to establish an independent supervisory system for the provision of care and accommodation to the lone minors in reception.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3690	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with a legislative proposal to ensure that unaccompanied minor asylum seekers under public care are properly provided in the light of child-care assessments.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3747	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3759	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3773	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3785	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proposal that the general rule for non-residents’ offences should be different from deportation, such as the additional period for permanent residence permits, when the foreigner has children living in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the necessary legislative and regulatory changes that explicitly state that consideration of the child’s best in expulsion cases should be given more weight than immigration regulatory considerations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the design of the transitional provisions relating to the legislative amendments proposed in Prop. 83 L [[2020-2021]] The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3945	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3959	President! I did not vote. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3964	The Committee's position was then adopted by 79 votes to 7 with 7 abstentions. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3980	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e3992	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-7, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to terminate Norway’s participation in ILO Convention No. 169 on indigenous peoples and indigenous peoples of independent States.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals to repeal the Finnmarks Act.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and promote the necessary proposals to transfer all the densely populated land in Finnmark from the Finnmark property to the municipalities immediately.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and promote the necessary proposals that will result in the unattracted land of today in Finnland being remanufactured as real estate.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to examine and promote the necessary proposals so that the areas currently included in Finnmark’s property, together with the areas of State Forest in Nordland and Troms, come under a legal status similar to that of the State’s land area in the rest of the country.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to examine and promote the necessary proposals for the closure of the Sameting.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals to complete the management area of the Sami languages, as set out in the Annex. Law on the Sameting and other Sámi Laws Chapter 3. ‘... [[cohesion]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4057	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Nils Kristen Sandtrøen on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 6 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that exemptions from the protection of arable land and arable land be granted only by a national planning authority.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4089	There is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose amendments to the laws on soil which provide real protection for arable land through a substantial reduction of the possibility of exemptions from the general requirement that cultivated and arable land not be used for purposes other than food production.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4106	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines a new soil protection target for the maximum re-disposal of 2000 demarcated land annually by 2026.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4123	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size determines a new soil protection target for maximum redisposal of 3000 deches per year by 2026.’» The Greens and Reds have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4148	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own soil protection strategy during the spring of 2021 with measures to achieve the soil protection objective.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a target for re-disposal of arable land, to assess whether the current criteria for re-disposal reporting are good enough, and to design measures that will reduce the consumption of food by agriculture’.» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4179	During the debate, Nils Kristen Sandtrøen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an action plan to strengthen the goat industry as a food producer and cultural carrier in Norway.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4264	The case was raised after the deadline set out in the third paragraph of Paragraph 47 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: ‘In order to be able to count royal propositions and messages to be dealt with by the Stortinget before the Stortinget terminates its negotiations in June, they must be submitted by 10 April at the latest. The deadline does not apply to proposals for changes in the State budget and notification of revised national budgets, proposals for income statements, tariff negotiations, agricultural negotiations or the annual municipal bill. In order to be expected to be dealt with by the Stortinget before the Stortinget ends its negotiations in June, representatives' proposals or interpellations must be submitted within the same time limit. [[...]] The payment may, upon application, derogate from the time limit. Such an application shall be submitted to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, which shall promote the suspension of the Grand Duchy.’.» The Presidency has received a request from the Ministry of Finance with a request for treatment before the end of the spring session, and the President hereby resigns from reporting. St. 31 for 2020-2021 is being discussed by Stortinget to suspend its negotiations in June. The President proposes that referral No. 578 shall be sent to the Financial Committee and shall be dealt with before the end of the negotiations in June. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4293	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map. The next speaker is the representative of Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4300	First, of course, I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. Very many of the ambitions that the Minister put forward, we do share. However, I am uncertain whether we agree on the instruments, and therefore the Workers' Party is calling for a more active industrial policy in this area as well. The time we are in, I believe that one should have had a case on the table in Stortinget. This is where we should agree on the framework conditions for the industry and discuss the future and how we should ensure the best possible for the Norwegian maritime nation. Therefore, instead of saying that this message is not coming, I wish you could say a little about why you could not take it into the Storting and include the entire Biggest in the important work. That's the reason I want to hear. The size has taken several initiatives to ensure more jobs, more processing on land, because we believe we need to think new. Last autumn, the Stortinget dealt with a proposal from the Workers' Party that white fish operators should be able to rent farm concessions for self-production. It was a recording that came from Primex in the West Pole, but of course it was not to apply only to Primex, but in general. There was a very clear decision from the Stortinget, where it was decided that the Stortinget asked the government to seek out a system for the rental of time-limited aquaculture permits to ensure self-production in the fishing industry. I know that the minister was initially very sceptical about this, but luckily, the Storting was very much in agreement. But I am not sure where this case is now. Another issue concerns variable MTB, which is intended to contribute to a more even supply of raw materials for industry. It is also a proposal that was adopted by a majority and that was that the government should file a case for the Storting before the end of the deadline for examination in spring 2021, with a view to introducing a probationary system to contribute to increased processing and value creation. But I cannot see that there has been any such case submitted to Stortinget, and now we are soon in May and are in the interview for the treatment. It would have been nice to hear what is happening to the cases, and how the council intends to follow this up to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4313	I have glanced at the Workers' Party's roll-call election program, and I have to say that it was difficult to find things I did not agree with there. In many ways, I must be able to say that what is in the programme is actually a continuation of government policy. So something must have been done right by the government, and I see that it's really quite a broad consensus, even though it doesn't always sound like that from the opposition. However, I think it is an important signal to the industry and the economic operators who need stable and predictable framework conditions. I will try to answer some of the questions that have been asked. I just have to say that in the case of the Seaspiracy film, it also puts the spotlight on important issues that are outside the world, and which Norway is also involved in combating internationally, for example. with the Blue Justice initiative, where we facilitate, for example: developing countries shall be able to use the technology and data with which we have and monitor marine areas relevant to other parts of the world, such as: in the case of slavery on individual ships – it is reprehensible. I have to say, of course, that the message was – in 30 seconds – adapted to an American audience, and it wasn't time to go so much in depth. But it's very important that we're also a little proud of what we've got. The Norwegian word ‘dugnad’ is present when we have over time achieved what we have acquired in the aquaculture industry. The French are proud of their red wine and champagne, and we should be much more proud of what we've done with the salmon. But, as a little bit typical Norwegian, I think there are too many – not in this room, but in general – who talk down what we actually have reason to be very proud of. It's a story about standing-on people who don't give up, and it's also a story of good cooperation between authorities and private nutrition. In terms of more offensive investment in technology, it is also important to say that the government now has a record amount of about this year. 2.4 B.C.E. kr that goes to marine research. I would also like to say that the development authorisation system has been a success. We have started a development, a new direction in marine aquaculture, as a result of the fact that public Norway has stimulated such a development of salmon permits. When it comes to diet, we use a lot of resources every year, for example. something called the Fish Precipitation, which is supposed to help make children and young people eat more fish. And that is what is needed, because we eat too little fish in Norway. In terms of what we do related to sustainability, it's a continuous, daily work. Mortality is a major challenge. Fish feed is as mentioned a major challenge, getting a smaller soy share in it, and marine littering. I would also say that profitability over time is part of the concept of sustainability. It is also a challenge that the special permits in salmon farming are about. 192 000 tonnes of salmon in the sea other than the traffic lighting system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4328	I wondered if I heard correctly when the council said that he had thrown a glance at the Workers' Party's program and found nothing he disagreed with. And because I listened, he didn't limit himself to the aquaculture chapter, but it was the program in general. Then you can do two things. One might consider whether one is in the right party, or one might be even more happy to read the Center Party's program, because it's going to create a big, big enthusiasm for the Minister of Fisheries. And although this is a debate in Stortinget, and although this is an interpellant debate without a decision, I think it should be viewed as a recording meeting for a strategy and a strategy process that takes place in government. I think it's unfortunate that one goes in a direction where one tries to let the political processes relate to the aquaculture industry go outside the staging room. It is simply because the agro-food industry is an important industry, but it is also a controversial industry. It's an industry where there's a lot of discussion around, and I think it's so important to let the discussions come up in this room, get the decisions, get multiples in place and on that basis give the industry a stable and careful framework. When a strategy process is closed in government, although one has a recording meeting, among other things, it will be easy to criticise the processes that have been, so I hope that the most possible policy associated with aquaculture can be anchored in Stortinget. For aquaculture, it's not the most uncritical of the industry, which is the best friend in the industry. I think the best friend in the industry is the one who has a positive basic attitude to the industry, who wants further development and growth in the industry, but who at the same time also wants to set requirements for nutrition. Because there are challenges in the industry, and the balances have to be made by the Storting. One of the things that the uroar Center Party is the future development of the structure of the farming industry. Can we be at risk in various ways of contributing to a development that means that we are left with a few actors in the aquaculture industry? The need for capital to create growth may indicate that. The system of development concessions may have been good for the larger companies, and all of the regulations and requirements will, relatively, be more burdensome for the smaller players than for the big players. It is the Senterpartie’s strongest call that a regulatory approach to the aquaculture industry takes into account what this will mean for the structure of the industry. So we have had some rounds in Stortinget which have our unnecessary and which have created unnecessary unrest in the industry. The round of land-interest tax on aquaculture still with nothing. An unnecessary process created unrest. The fact that a Finance Minister from the Progress Party started this process, and that not a civil plurality on the Storting stopped that process, is to me a wonder. But one is still happy that the result was as it was. So there's been one thing that I and the Center Party I think have got too little attention. It is good that we have a farm fund in place; it is good that the municipalities should receive an annual income by having a farm. But on the way here, what I want to call an rank of 2 billion was happening. kr, because the auctions gave 2 billion. kr more than had been foreseen as Stortinget held the discussion on the distribution between the State and the municipality for the years 2020 and 2021. The two billion go straight into the state treasury, and the municipalities don't get as much as a penny of them. It's an injustice that I think the government should have fixed up to do what's one of the most important challenges for the aquaculture industry, simply to have coastal communities on the team, coastal communities that facilitate, coastal communities that demand, but coastal communities that demand a positive basic attitude. That's what farming needs. They don't need uncritical folding, they need a lot of demanding support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4343	I fully agree with the inter-pellant and the last speaker on the need for open debate about just the aquaculture industry and fisheries. Earlier today, the Energy and Environment Committee had consultations on marine protection zones. There we also see clear divisions, differing attitudes and the greatest conflicts related to just the aquaculture industry and fisheries. There are very strong counter-forces against industries that are actually among the most sustainable. They produce protein-rich foods with the least climate pressure, so it should actually be the opposite, for those who are active, whether it's aquaculture or fishing, know that they depend on clean water and clean coastal areas to produce and manage to sell the products. Sustainable growth is the mantra of the industry, and everyone knows that there will be no growth without sustainability. But then I've also been asked by the industry: you politicians keep saying "sustainability," but what are you doing? We have been able to develop a traffic light management system that has given clear leadership, but then there has been no further development after that. We know that feed is one of the biggest climate impressions. This applies both to the transport and to the content of the feed. So there's also something that the industry wants. What has really been the starting point for Norway to succeed in developing such a sustainable and strong aquaculture industry is that we have used our natural conditions in combination with a good management system that has challenged industries and that has actually made them competitive and resilient to the changes that have taken place along the way. When we say "natural conditions", it's the good current conditions, the clean water, etc., and the coastal area, which the Council of State was also in, while very many of the support schemes have supported under large offshore facilities. Now we see that more and more people are talking about land-based facilities or that larger parts of production are going to happen on land, but what might give the lowest image is developing and exploiting our advantage, which is coastal, with semi-closed facilities, which are also more reasonable, and which also makes us able to maintain a diversity in the industry, which contributes to innovation by having the family-owned companies and not just those who depend on a lot of capital. It's true, as many people have said, that a lot of the premise for the industry may have been put up a lot for the big ones in disfavor of the smaller ones, while we need both to develop the industry further. There has also been evidence of EU taxonomy, and in the future, perhaps more of the total image – transport and feed content, but also interference on land – will actually affect what is profitable to invest in in the future. So the councils were in on it with the fragmented administration. The undersigned and the Workers' Party have several times lifted the fact that it often characterises new industries as being placed on top of other laws, while what was done with petroleum was to establish completely separate institutions that understood the peculiarity and managed to develop it there. It's happened very little there, so it's also an important theme in the future to be able to see how we're going to solve it much better than what we've done up to now. In conclusion, I fully agree that we must promote this industry. I don't know if it's because we're always going to be so critical to our own, but it's a great industry. I know that last year there were a lot more people looking for current lines both in higher education and in the higher education system that are relevant. It's a very good sign when young people are looking for the directions in which they believe. I haven't had time to investigate what has been happening this year. I hope that the trend still has, because it is also part of being socially sustainable. We've seen how the yard industry has been vulnerable now, and ensuring recruitment, people wanting to work in this industry, establishing apprenticeships and opportunities to develop further in relation to different positions, is absolutely crucial, we need both a viable industry and an important coastal industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4358	Let me start with the notes that the last opus ended with: we need to remember that it's a great industry we're talking about here. We often define ourselves as the oil nation of Norway, but we are just as much the marine nation of Norway. And we've been incredibly lucky in that way that we've had two industries that have evolved in such an amazing way parallel. It is amazing to think that at the beginning of the 1990s we had a total production of farmed salmon of about 110 000 to 150000 tonnes. It was at the time that we frozen large parts of our production because we thought it would lead to market imbalance to release such a large amount of salmon on the international market. Today we deliver more than one million tonnes of salmon to the same international market. This means that there has not only been an incredible development of technology, practice and investment in Coast Norway without equal. There has also been a development in the market that has made today Japanese and Chinese – and Norwegian – eat sushi with salmon, which they never really did. Salmon was a niche product far from the sushi table, and has now become market leader in several of the segments of seafood. It's a great story. It's also a great story to think about that this is one of the most sustainable industries in animal husbandry – let me call it animal husbandry, even if it's in the sea. We're talking about an industry that has some of the lowest climate footprint, some of the lowest environmental footprint compared to other industries. When we talk about a high climate footprint from feed to salmon, we don't talk about it measured against other types of feed. We talk about it measured in relation to the assumption that if the soya they use in salmon feed had not been purchased – which, after all, is sustainability-registered, sustainability-certified – forest would have been planted in the areas. There is no realistic assumption. Anyway, I think we should first remember that this is a sustainable industry, this is an important industry for Coast Norway, this is a profitable industry, and it's a profitable industry with a great potential in the future if we do things right. Yes, we have to make demands on the industry. It's important. We do that in every context. But we're not going to make greater demands on this industry than on other industries. We have to set the same requirements as we expect from all sides. And we're going to brag when we see that the industry is doing something good. And really, this industry is doing something good. We have many examples of amazing products, amazing market work and amazing operations that come out of this. Seeing an industry that actually delivers on all the criteria we want it to be delivered on is amazing. The future can also be great when we do the right things. We are on the threshold of an absolutely amazing development. We're on the threshold of succeeding with cod. Cod – if we succeed – can become as large and important as salmon. And in ten years' time, if anyone stands in this Chamber and discusses Norwegian fisheries policy, maybe one will discuss a cod farm that is as large as the total trawler catch in Norway. That means that we get a completely different opportunity for the mainland industry along the coast. Consider that we can get cod delivered in the quality, at the size and at that time fresh, as the whole industry demands. It's a great opportunity, and we have more of these great opportunities with new species. At the same time, we should remember that Norway is not condemned to succeed in aquaculture. Over the last few weeks, we've seen old blue mussels being cleaned up in the South. It is a memory that it is not that everything succeeds and that all trees grow into heaven. It takes effort. It requires a talk. It requires effort and research. And this is one of the industries that are required to allocate parts of their turnover to research. That's very good. I will admit that I am pleased that we have this debate and that this debate has been initiated, but I may not fully share the enthusiasm of the Minister for Fisheries for the Workers' Party's programme proposals. I must admit that. I would therefore like to say that there is a large-scale programme proposal, but as a point-by-point point, it says how it is going to be more difficult to achieve that objective by making costs higher, regulation more stringent and opportunities for industry more difficult in the future. Furthermore, I would like to say that it is an interesting proposal – to conclude – about a climate agreement. I would like to remind you that a climate agreement applies to our own emissions. The emissions we are talking about here, which are the biggest for the aquaculture industry, namely feed emissions, would be outside such an climate agreement because they are being processed in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4377	The opportunities for future aquaculture are great, and more have said so. The centre party is committed to facilitating further growth in the aquaculture industry while safeguarding the marine environment and life. The centre batch will intensify measures and instruments to prevent the escape and spread of salmonids. The industry rules must be based on zero tolerance for the escape and spread of diseases from rams. In addition, industry and administrations must contribute funds to research and development in order to ensure consistent and sustainable management of the aquaculture industry. The centre batch will remove the concession for methods of production in the aquaculture industry that do not adversely affect the environment, such as terrestrial farms and closed sea facilities. On the edge of the Ice Sea is South Island. Fresher and cleaner water is not available. There are no other facilities nearby. Nevertheless, farms are affected by the infectious disease ILA. This happened not long ago, and 2.3 million salmon were hit. This represented approx. 10 million kg, i.e. a loss of approx. 600 million. kr. We can conclude that the ILA has not been applied to the plant by external factors, but is something that is entirely due to the mode of operation of intensive farming. I was so lucky to have visited a closed facility in Vevelstad, which had no lice or disease, and took care of sludge and dirt. The fish was in amazing condition. It is an example of how breeding can be carried out in a sustainable way. The centre lot will continue to be a driver for a greater return of taxes and charges from the aquaculture industry to the municipalities that set the area of marine installations. The centre party will maintain ownership restrictions in the farming industry, strengthen public R & D efforts for sustainable and increasing production of current farmed species, and initiate projects for other sea-based production. The need for municipalities to have more to set aside land for the aquaculture industry is also important. Not only does it have to be demonstrated that there is growth, but more needs to be done to municipalities that have set aside sea areas for farming. The concern for wild fish must be properly taken into account. We can, for example: not risk that cod will stop spawning in its normal spawning fjords. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the control of the marine environment as a national task, which must be done in a reliable manner. It must be the task of the nation, and there must be enough resources to do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4392	I can, of course, recommend to the Minister a lot more good reading material as well. Even I haven't read what he refers to, I might have to do that at some point. This is an interesting inter-pelling debate that in many ways highlights several aspects, not least the fact that the fisheries, maritime and marine food industry is one of the largest and most valuable we have in Norway – after oil. This industry has a large, high potential for growth, but one must also always take into account the resilience of nature. The traffic lighting system established as the basis for managing the development of the aquaculture industry needs to be developed and gradually strengthened with new knowledge. We need to dry up to set stricter requirements for better animal welfare in the farming industry, combined with increased investment in research and technology development. The farming industry is important for Norway and also brings with it some challenges that we need to work with the industry to address. We therefore need to look at the possibilities for adapting rules for farming in order to ensure sustainable solutions, not least for the conservation of wild fish stocks, and to ensure that municipalities have a reasonable compensation for the area used by the farming industry. The industry also has a high potential to create new jobs and is therefore important in the green shift. It is also important to maintain diversity in the farming industry, where a greater focus should be on feed production and not least on sludge management. This could create many new, exciting jobs through sustainable and circular approaches. I was so lucky last year and was looking at such a plant in Brønnøy. There's still a little pilot, but I have a lot of faith that there's actually going to be several things in one: a feed production that's more sustainable, and a sludge management that can also be an industrial bet on land. It must then be remembered that salmon production is a food production with very low CO 2 emissions and feed efficiency in terms of protein production. We have some great advantage given that we have great competence in the industry and a research environment that is world-leading. This is definitely a district-based industry. The Norwegian coast has some great advantages along the entire coastline. Now we are talking primarily about salmon today, but also other species will definitely be able to do so in the future. There have been some spice attempts to breed cod, but I think we'll be able to crack those codes in a few years, and then it might also be an industry as big as salmon. I hope that in the future we will be able to see more of development concessions that focus on the circular and, not least, are more coastal. I believe that through the possibilities there we also have greater opportunities for just what I said about sludge management and feed production, which can give a lot of power in the future. I don't think there's any reason to talk Norwegian salmon industry and aquaculture, because Norwegian salmon is a strong Norwegian international product with its good market apparatus. Here, not least, Norway's sea wire has done a strong job for many years. Where our neighboring country has IKEA, LEGO and Nokia, we are so lucky that we have the salmon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4416	It's nice that the Workers' Party programme was also the subject here, I'm very proud of it. I'm a little unsure whether the Minister has actually read the Workers' Party's program, maybe he actually took a little Spanish one there, because does the Minister agree that there should be a goal to double the value creation by 2030? Does the Minister agree that temporary rearing permits should be introduced? Does the Minister agree to further develop the traffic light system with several environmental indicators? And does the Minister agree to do the opposite of what the government has done, namely to reintroduce the demand for apprentices, further processing and research for the major operators in aquaculture? I'm a little bit uncertain about it. But it may be, all the time that the Right has begun to copy the Workers' Party slogan, 'Work for All', that it was on the outside that it was thought that it was the Workers' Party program you read, but it was perhaps its Right. There's no doubt that we have good reason to be proud of ourselves as a port, but it's also important to ask the critical questions to come forward, to get future-oriented and sustainable coastal development for those who work there, to ensure the value creation of our country. That's why this interpellation is lifted. That's why the Workers' Party has a very clear, good program when it comes to seafood, fisheries and aquaculture, because we want something more. That's why it's nice that the Center Party also believes that there are similarities between our programs. That means that we can get to a new course for the country even when it comes to the sea, a more active policy. But there was one thing I asked questions about, which I think it is important to get clear from the Minister, namely the proposal that has been adopted here in the Biggest on Variable MTB. The decision was that this matter should be dealt with in the Chamber at the end of this session, that the matter should be submitted in order to ensure it. That was the whole background for reaching as broad a consensus as you did. I think there are several people who know that there were opportunities to get a majority to go much further in the proposals that were in this room, but you wanted to stand together. But one has not yet received a case on the table, and I wonder what has happened. So, finally, being a trailer of the industry is also about making demands. Those who make demands may be the best friends in the industry, because you have to make demands at the same time. And this with someone talking down, while others talk up, is also a little strawman argumentation, because it must be possible to have political disagreement. But I mainly meet people who talk this industry just up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4428	I guess I have to make it clear that it was the Workers' Party's programme in the fisheries and seafood field I referred to, and I said it was hard to find anything to disagree with. Something is, but essentially, my impression is that if we look behind the political rhetoric, there is quite a broad consensus on things. I can take the point with the Marine Fund. The Marine Farm Fund is about finding a balance between value creation and local ring-effects of what's going to end in our big society fund. Similarly, the development of the aquaculture industry is also about finding a balance between biology, animal welfare and workplaces. Changes in small steps are important because economic operators need both stability and predictability in their performance. I very much agree with the representative Pollestad that we should make demands, and so do we. It's also important not to forget that we have to talk and we have to pay attention not least to the many family businesses that this is about, that are driving this industry forward. I would like to remind some of the representatives that the partial disrespectful discussion of Norwegian ownership and property tax on working capital is direct discrimination against local ownership. It is very important that one remembers it, because it concerns those who are the nucleus and spine of this particular industry, just as it concerns another important industry in Norway, which is agriculture. I want to say that we are active in industrial policy. For example, I would say that the years of investment in marine research have resulted in the success of cod farming. It should also be said that there have been private actors who have done a thorough job in Florø. Just like cod farming is interesting because the new species can help create more whole-year-old jobs in processing and further processing, perhaps especially in North Norway, where we need even more full-year-old jobs if we're to get people to move there. There is no one moving to a time position. Then I would like to say that the request decisions that have come from Stortinget are under follow-up, and variable MTB is mentioned from the interpellant. We're going to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, and I also understand that we're going to reach it within the deadline set. There are several decisions in the Stortinget there. So to the question of open debate. I feel that there is a fairly open debate. Even if we put forward a marine strategy instead of a big message, it's also about a pace. I don't see it cutting off a relatively open and broad debate. There is also nothing wrong with going even closer to work later, and some elements of the strategy may need to be consulted. I would like to make it clear that there are relevant parts of the strategy that need to be consulted. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for a broad and good debate, and I feel that there is quite a broad welcome on the direction of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4445	With that, the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4461	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4468	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for very good cooperation in this matter, which has also resulted in the parties agreeing on a common proposal, which I will come back to. The case concerns a proposal for a representative on adult child adoption, promoted by the Progress Party. This is a matter that does not concern many people, but it is very important for them. It is understandable that children of adult age who want to be adopted expect their opinion to be given weight in such a decision. At the same time, we in the Christian People's Party do not agree with the proposalers' wish that this should be something for the adult child to decide for himself, because there are good reasons why the state should be responsible for adoption. Adoption changes family legal ties with definitive effect and thus has major legal implications for all those involved in the case. It is therefore not only the concern of the applicant for adoption, but also the concern and, consequently, the legal certainty of others affected. While the adoption authorities are required to take into account the parties’ own views on the issue of adoption, Section 16 of the Act and the preparatory work show that the adoption authorities must also consider other matters. In his reply from the Council of State on 1 March 2021 to the Committee, he pointed out that the proposal for a representative seems to break with a long-standing principle of Norwegian law that one cannot decide for oneself or agree who should be one’s legal parents. The establishment and transfer of legal parents is currently a public responsibility, and adults cannot demand the removal of legal family ties, even if they believe they have good reasons for doing so. Based on simple stories that have been told in the media lately, there is reason to believe that, in some cases, the adult child’s opinion should have been more focused. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Committee in the Inner East. 347 S has gathered on a joint proposal for a decision. However, after the vote was taken, the Committee has come to the conclusion that the text of the decision is somewhat unfortunate, so on behalf of the Committee I would therefore like to make the following corrections to the proposal for decisions on pages 2 and 3 of the opinion: the words 'examined and' are deleted. The text of the proposal for a decision of the Committee is hereby replaced by the following: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the opinion of the authoritative child is given greater weight in matters relating to adult steped child adoption.’ I hope that the Storting's request decision can help to ensure that one in cases where adult stepchildren want to be adopted, with all due respect, will have the best possible chance of succeeding with just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4486	Sometimes we deal with things in this room that don't necessarily concern so many people. This is nevertheless fundamentally important, and it means a lot to the individuals it touches. It is a fact that there are not very many adult stepchildren's adoptions every year, nor are there many cases that are rejected. Of those rejected, even fewer are rejected on the grounds of the best interests of the child. The child is also here an adult. It's really the heart of the matter: the child is adult. The Stebarn Adoption Act has as its starting point such things that it concerns stebarn who is still a child. Adult stepchildren are also subject to the law and thus also to the best provisions of the child. In no other case do we treat adults like that. Only people who are unpredictable or demented are deprived of the right to know what is their own best. But in this context, this also applies to adult stepchildren. I believe it is a serious disapproval of adult people, and that is precisely the background to the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party. The Council of State argues in its letter to the Stortinget against the proposal for a representative because he points out that it is not up to individuals to decide or agree who should be their legal parents, but this is also not the case with the proposal for a representative. The representative proposal only calls for adults to decide for themselves what is for their own good. There may be other reasons why the manager of the state may reject the application for adult child adoption, but it is not, as I said, what this proposal from the Progress Party is about. Today, I am pleased that an overall committee is far on the way to seeing that today's law does not give sufficient emphasis to the opinion of legitimate children. So I'm very happy that the Progress Party raised the issue, because with the proposal that we agree on, it will hopefully mean that it will be a change for the individuals concerned. The next step, as the Advance Party sees it, is simply natural, that you stop disincentiveling adult people. I would nevertheless like to thank the Committee. Although the Progress Party today does not get a majority for its primary, original proposal, we still have a good deal of agreement. I take this up with the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4507	The representative Silje Hemdal has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4512	Thank the proposers for addressing this issue. We are many who respond to the fact that adults are not allowed to carry out an adoption even when all the parties involved have given their consent to it. The matter has been updated in the light of the newspaper's history of Aurora, who wanted to be adopted by her stepfather, to whom she had had a close and close bond with throughout growth, and which she considers to be her father. So they have been denied this, and I understand that they feel unreasonable. It is unfortunate when the interpretation of the law provides unintended consequences that deprive authoritative people of the right to decide what is best for them. It is therefore very gratifying that a joint committee is now asking the government to ensure that the opinion of the authoritative child is given greater weight in matters of adult child adoption. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's good review of the good cooperation we have had on the matter in the committee. I have also registered an opinion from the Civil Ombudsman in June 2020, which dealt with another issue of adult stebarn adoption. Here the Ombudsman concluded that the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family had interpreted Section 16 of the Adoption Act incorrectly. In the specific case, Buffdir refused because the former spouse, who is a parent of the child, had not agreed to the adoption. It is clear from the Civil Ombudsman's conclusion that in the case of an adult option under Section 16, there is no condition for the consent of the former spouse who is the parent of the child. The Ombudsman further asked the Ministry of Children and Family to explain a circular, Q-1245, relating to the procedure for applying for national and foreign adoption, so that the guidelines on the adoption of adult stepchildren were in line with the Ombudsman’s understanding of Section 16 of the Adoption Act. With regard to both the specific case of Aurora, which the daily newspaper wrote about, and the Ombudsman's opinions and requests to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, I understand that misinterpretation of the law has taken place. State Councillor Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has stated in the committee’s letter of reply that Bufdir will be asked to review the guidelines of the law to ensure that they are in conformity with the law and its preprocessor. I believe that this should be followed up soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4529	Thank you to the Cooperation Committee on this matter. I would also like to thank the proposers for raising an important case for those involved. SV agrees with the proposers that we should make it easier with adult stebarn adoption. For many people, even though they are 18 or 30 years old, it will be important – and it is important for me to stress from this pulpit – with a legal recognition of the emotional ties they are connected to a stepparent with over many years of age. We've seen things in the media, and people have made contact with their stories. In the stories people have told me, it is quite obvious that here it must be possible to make this easier. Today’s practice is too restrictive, and the adult’s opinion on what is best for the child is given too little weight. Then an alternative proposal has been taken instead of the original one of the Progress Party. I think that's wise, because this can be solved without changing the long-term practice of administration, where adoption is a task of government. That's probably good reasons to hold on. This can be solved by means of the request proposed by the Stortinget, where we ask the government to ensure that the adult child’s opinion is given greater weight in that assessment, considering what is clearly likely to be for the benefit of the person – as stated in the law today. That is why I am very pleased that a unanimous committee is promoting that proposal. The SV and the entire committee see with it the people who have stood up with their stories, listen and do something about it. I think that's very nice. Then I will say on behalf of the Workers' Party that they also join the proposal – I have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4538	First, I would like to say that I have a great deal of understanding that the subject of an adoption case is disappointed when an application for adoption is rejected. It is a prerequisite that an applicant considers adoption to be in the best interests, but it cannot be decisive either. This would break with the principle that one cannot decide who should be one’s legal parents. The law must also comply well with human rights and ensure the legal certainty of parents who will lose legal ties with adult children. An 18-year-old person can only be adopted if it is clearly likely that the adoption will be the best for the person. The proposers ask the government to propose a legislative change, so that it becomes the adult child himself who assesses what is best for him. As has been well explained, an overall committee recommends that the Stortinget take decisions to ask the government to investigate and ensure – now, if necessary, just to ensure – that the opinion of the authoritative child is given greater weight in matters relating to adult child adoption. Adoption is invasive, and it's irreversible. The desire to be adopted is important, but the authorities shall pay particular attention to the link between the applicant and the applicant for adoption, the family relationship lost at the time of adoption, and any sibling to be adopted by the applicant at the same time. Furthermore, the assessment should take into account future prospects and that relations can be changed over time. The adoption authorities shall also reject applications for which the primary purpose is outside the scope of the adoption law. Granting an adoption requires that it must be clearly probable that adoption will be at the best of the person. The adoption law does not prevent greater emphasis from being placed on what the adult child wants. I would like to thank the proposers for the proposal, because in the work on the proposal for a representative the guidelines on the law were reviewed, and the reference to the requirement of proof could be seen as too restrictive and has now been clarified. It is also clarified that contact with the original family should not exclude that it may nevertheless be natural to change legal family relationships. Furthermore, the civil officer has made it clear that adult child adoption cannot be subject to the consent of the former spouse who is a parent of the child. Policy has now been adjusted in line with this. The changes that have been made will lead to practices likely to become less restrictive in the future, and we therefore do not, in my view, need to change the law in order to achieve the desired adjustment that the Committee as a whole expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-27.ana.ud371e4555	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
