ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The called alternate of Rogaland, Tom Kalsås, is now taking the seat. The representative, Mr Vetle Wang Soleim, has requested that the parental leave granted be extended until 30 April. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Anders Riise, continues to meet in Stortinget until 28 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e55	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e60	On behalf of the representatives Bård Hoksrud, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to represent the right to drive a light motorcycle if you have a driving licence for a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e65	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will table two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e70	It's a pleasure on behalf of the big business representatives Siv Jensen, Jon Georg Dale, Silje Hämdal, Bengt Rune Strifeldt and myself to propose to wind up the unfair curtailment of pensions for married and cohabiting pensioners, and a proposal on behalf of the big business representatives Sivert Bjørnstad, Jon Georg Dale, Himanshu Gulati and myself to set up a simplification and modernisation committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e75	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e80	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the big business representatives Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Jenny Klinge, Geir Pollestad and myself on national preparedness and the production of infectious equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e85	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e101	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Foreign Minister Ine Eriksen Soreide and State Council Odd Emil Ingebrichtsen will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e110	My main question is to the Minister for Fisheries. Seafood is one of our most important industries. It creates values, jobs and life along the coast of the coastal nation of Norway. Hopefully, we now see the end of the sun-berg fisheries policy, which must be said to have been eight lost years for the fisheries policy. We should perhaps have taken the hint when the first thing this government did was put down the Ministry of Fisheries. The slogan «New ideas and better solutions» has struck with the coastal uprising against a policy with consequences pointed out by the Riksrevision. Coastal communities have been weakened. Owners’ concentration has increased and changes in the fisheries policy have not been adequately addressed. Differences have increased along the lines of frustration. Last year we dealt with the highly fragmented quota notification, which was to show the way for the fishing industry for a long time in the future. Who would get fish? Where and how do we fairly allocate resources? It's a huge belly pad, to use the industry's own words. What was going to be the solution was the problem. I don't know about any industry that had accepted such a voteable treatment. This may be a good right-wing policy, but it's a bad coastal policy. Investments are on hold. Conflicts between the parts of the country, between large and small, have flared up, while the government, with the blessing of the Progress Party, records the number of new fees this industry will pay. This is done on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries and this government's watch. What does the Minister for Fisheries actually do to clean up and calm down the temperature along the coast — yes, except to blame everyone else? What action does the Minister for Fisheries now take to provide predictability and calm down the coast and clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e123	It was a fairly comprehensive question, and I can't answer everything that came up. I would first like to say to the representative Myrseth that the quota notification was initiated by many years of discussion and public investigations. All that was presented was well investigated. The notification of quotas is due to the need for simplifications and improvements in our fisheries policy system with a lack of rules. The fact that you have different lengths on the boats is in itself illustrative of how complex this is. So we're talking about eight lost years in the fisheries policy. Then I might remind the representative that the last eight years have been a golden year for Norwegian fishing industry with good profitability and increased exports because the government has been careful to ensure that we have market access for our fish, as opposed to some other parties on the Stortinget that will spread uncertainty around, for example. The EEA Agreement. So the representative says there's bad coastal policy, and asks what we're going to do to create increased predictability. It is said in the fisheries that the only thing that is absolutely certain is that everything is uncertain – weather, wind, where the fish are etc. The people of the coast are well used to managing change, and that's how you've done very well through the coronary crisis so far. Predictability is very important for any industry, including the fishing industry. What remains as the key issues for the fisheries industry is to clarify how the structural quotas are to be redistributed when they fall back from 2027, and also the transition from the length of the base to the actual length. It's really the two main questions that we're now working on, and that, if I haven't been wrong, also the opposition wants to have a wide deal about. We spend time in a close dialogue with the industry to find good solutions, and I feel that the industry appreciates it very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e136	I'm not sure what was really the answer to the challenges. It was a pieceful and divided response, a bit like politics to the government. We got a little answer out of it. What's certain is that we dealt with the allowance notification last year, but what happened after that? No one knows. This means that investments, for those who are to invest in, for example: new green technology on the boat side, is uncertain. They dare not take these investments. It's the industry feedback. I do not know about anyone who has gone out and said that this was the solution for the fishing industry. That's the opposite that's happened. The fisherman's page says: The quota message that nobody wanted. The Minister of Fisheries is very good at blaming everyone else, but he never takes responsibility for what you've done. Thus, the Government of the Fiskers believes that the quota notification and the treatment of it have put the entire fishing industry in an almost impossible situation, because the framework conditions for the future appear to be very unclear. The last time I asked the Minister for Fisheries what the answer was, he said it was the Fishlayer's own fault. When he has been told: what is the answer to the fishing industry, which is now experiencing great uncertainty?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e147	It is a fact that the Fish Arbitration Team has conflicts of interest and interest. They've had that for a long time. The new thing is that someone has signed up from the Fiskerlage – that’s a fact. So I don't know what kind of a lack of response the representative Myrseth believes I didn't come along. I mean, I'm answering the challenges she's coming up with. In terms of industry uncertainty, and investments that are pending, we can well say that this is true of almost all enterprises in Norway today. You get unsure when you have a pandemic situation. What's the time after the Korona? You wait a little bit, you sit on the fence a little bit before doing the things you have to do. Fisheries have been through eight gold years with an increase in exports and an increase in value creation. It's a profitable industry. It's a great starting point for building further, for even more value creation and jobs along our coast. Only in North Norway are 15 000 annual works dependent on fisheries and seafood, which are working on this, and which need the EEA Agreement, for example:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e156	There will be follow-up questions – first Cecilie Myrseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e161	I would like to remind you that the last time we discussed this and I asked what is left after we dealt with the quota notification, and told you what the Fishlayer had adopted unanimously, the Minister for Fisheries came again and said that there is so much uncertainty about every other place, and that the Fishlayer is so divided. They have reacted very strongly to this and have strongly opposed the statements made by the Minister for Fisheries. I think maybe a fisheries minister should listen to the biggest organization in the industry. They have also said that they want to sit down again, because it is not sustainable what is now the premise of the industry – sit down again with the other parties to try to find solutions together with the coast, which is clearly disagreeable with what the Minister for Fisheries is now saying. The working party has called for a new review of the quota notification. Can the Minister for Fisheries agree that we should?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e168	I have registered that the Workers' Party wants to provide an allowance message of 2.0. The result will be even more years of increased uncertainty, so it should reconsider the Workers' Party. What remains to be clarified for the fishing industry is, as I mentioned in my first answer, if the representative didn't get it, that we have to figure out how to distribute and re-distribute structural quotas when they fall back in 2027, and how to get to a transition to actual length. I agree that the Storting has adopted a quota notification, and then you just have to read the map as the terrain is. We have a close dialogue with the industry. I understand that the Fiskarlag has conflicting interests that make them want to postpone that part of the quota notification. Structural quotas and setbacks are an opportunity for the Storting to decide after we have had thorough investigations, hearings and discussions. Then we get to hope that there will be a broad majority for what is proposed and that it will create predictability for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e179	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e184	The problem is that the Minister for Fisheries is blind to criticism. The criticism is that if he does not want to listen to this Chamber, he can listen to an overall industry that is critical to the Minister. That's what you should do. It's a wise thing to sit in a minority government, especially to listen to the criticism that comes. But, of course, when it comes to fisheries policy, the Progress Party is completely in the back of the government, there is no disagreement. A constructive proposal that has recently been put forward is that coastal drivers have put forward proposals to ensure that the industry can put in place more raw materials, i.e. more fresh fish, in order to create more industry in Norway. They have made suggestions on how to get the biggest trawls a bonus to deliver more fish. I have asked the Minister for Fisheries earlier what he thought about it, but he had not been able to think about it then. I wonder: has the Minister for Fisheries been given consideration now, and does he think this is a good proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e192	I just want to repeat that quota notification 2.0 will create even more uncertainty for the fishing industry. So until the last time the representative asked, "From the communautaires, there has been a proposal." We were sent it two weeks ago, and we have been thinking, not to be subjected to criticism from, among other things. Myrseth that we're not investigating things well enough, that we might have to get a little bit more than 14 days before we send a proposal out to the hearing, which we're going to do in terms of the proposals from the communautaires. I am very positive about any proposal that can help to lay the foundations for more jobs along our coast and processing and increasing value creation in Norway of Norwegian raw materials. It's very important, and I feel that there's really quite a large majority for it. For the purposes of notification of allowances 2.0, the only thing the working party achieves is to spread even more uncertainty, so if you're very concerned that there should be no uncertainty in the industry, you should have drawn that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e201	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e206	It is good that the Minister for Fisheries is going to be at his post! In the context of Stortingen’s treatment of the National Audit Office’s survey of the quota system in the coastal and marine fleets, it took place among others. put forward six clear recommendations for improvement points. Because the Council of State was somewhat unclear when he was at the hearing, whether it was something to be followed up or assessed, the Stortinget felt it necessary to take a very concrete decision requiring the Minister of Fisheries to come back to the Stortinget – ‘The government is asking the Government to come back with proposals on how to follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office’. It is not very often that it is necessary to take such a decision, but it was necessary here – a clear decision in the Stortinget. Then the question will be asked to the Minister for Fisheries: When has the Minister for Fisheries planned to follow up on the clear burden imposed by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e213	I can't give an exact date, and I'm asking for an understanding of it. But we're working on all the issues that the Riksrevision took into account in its report, and we're taking all the issues that were raised in the Riksrevisions' report, in the utmost seriousness. I think I said that at the hearing. Among other things, there are ownership restrictions in the coastal fleet, where we are going to send out all proposals at the hearing and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e218	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e223	Although it is difficult to understand the government’s fisheries policy, there is one area that is easily understood, and there is a charging policy in the fisheries sector, which the Government Party and the Progress Party have chiseled out together. A new inspection fee has been introduced, 42 million. kr, a new fish tax is announced now in spring, 100 million. kr, a reduced rate in the CO 2 charge is around a quarter of a billion a year, compensation scheme was promised, but has so far given zero kroner paid. Then comes the dot over the i, pink in sausage – so the government has put forward a plan to fuel the CO 2 tax for the fishing industry in 2030 compared to the red-green level of the CO 2 tax. My question is: Is there any other industry in Norway that has received a corresponding fee increase such as the fishing industry, and why is it so busy charging the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e239	There are several conditions that are being taken up. The overall level of taxation is one thing, but only until recently, which is based on CO 2 tax and climate. The fishing industry must also be involved and take its share of what is needed to reduce climate emissions. The CO 2 tax is the whip in that context, but the government of course adds up to a carrot as well, so in a while, when you have to implement this, the CO 2 tax has to be compensated with other tax reliefs to give incentives for a green conversion. With regard to the general level of charges, the industry pays more fees. For example, in the case of inspection fees, the industry itself will gain from it when we succeed in increasing control. You have a research fee for which the industry benefits. In the case of the fiscal charge, the government remains to make a proposal on the scheme by it, which is to be dealt with in the revised national budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e255	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e260	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In January 2020, the government decided to bring a terrorist IS woman to Norway. It was a very controversial decision that the Progress Party strongly warned against. Among other things, we warned against the fact that it may be difficult to have enough leftovers in Norway to both maintain custody and get convicted people for things that have been committed elsewhere. We warned about the safety aspect of that issue. We know from other cases where terrorist women have returned from Syria to other European countries that they have participated in terrorist acts in their home countries. There are many problems that we understand. The only reason for the government to pick up this woman was that one child was seriously ill. Later, the government has not provided the public with insight or insight into the only basis for retrieving this woman turned out to be right or wrong. Other advances are being pushed in front of you to refuse to inform you if the government is making such serious decisions on the right or wrong basis. There have been many reactions, and I think that's understandable, because it's a serious situation. When we got the news yesterday that this woman will be released – yes, then it went just as much as the Progress Party feared. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether she understands that when a terrorist-minded woman like the government and the U.D. brought to Norway, it is now moving freely around the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e271	Firstly, I think it is important to establish the obvious, namely that the prosecution authority is independent. It is the prosecution authority that is responsible for assessing the prison grounds, and therefore, of course, I have no further comment on that, other than that the case is scheduled to come up in Oslo District Court on Monday. There is no doubt that this matter raised many dilemmas, and there are dilemmas that the Progress Party also has good insight into, all the time we discussed this in government for a long time. There was no wish from the government to contribute to the return of mother, but after some time it turned out that it was the only opportunity to get to Norway an assumedly seriously ill child, along with her siblings and her mother. So it was an extraordinary assistance that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left then decided to implement for humanitarian reasons. What I said at the press conference when the retrieval was a fact was that this is a child to be screened. They have to own their story. They shall be given a safe upbringing fully in line with all other Norwegian children, and in exactly the same way as for any other Norwegian citizen, health information about these children is also subject to professional secrecy. It should be a matter of course. That means that when the U.D. completed its work on the matter on 14 January last year, we do not have information about – and we should not have – any health status and questions related to other information related to silence. It is not to push ‘other pastries ahead’, but it is to comply with Norwegian law. I believe that it should in fact be lacking that the health information for this child, like for all other children, is not personal information. It is subject to silence and health information shall be provided because the caregivers of a child decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e280	Now I asked if the minister had an understanding that people are responding to a person who is terrorist and who the government has brought to Norway, now walking around freely. I know that the prosecution authority has to work independently, but I pointed to the government's responsibility for actively bringing this person to Norway and then I had to predict that this could happen. But leave it. There are many Nordics abroad who are struggling. There are many children abroad who are stuck in a situation where they, for example: because they do not have the necessary documents and forms needed by the Norwegian authorities, they do not acquire their Norwegian citizenship. I have recently been in contact with others who do not get their children to Norway, and in this case with the IS woman, I cannot see that there has been any birth certificate or the documents you normally require. Then the question is, is it that you have to be a member of a terrorist organisation in order for the government to help the children of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e288	In this case, we have acted in the same way as in any other case. Firstly, the children are Norwegian citizens. That citizenship is established in line with current Norwegian legislation, as demonstrated by DNA testing, in a completely ordinary way. Parents have every responsibility for their children. They're responsible for where they are, what's going to happen to them, and where they live. This means, for example: that the EEAS or other Norwegian authorities cannot bring children from another country in breach of the wishes of their parents, and that of course also applies in this case. I think it's important here, too, to start from the rather obvious and self-evident. This woman and her two children are Norwegian citizens. This means that they will have the right to enter the country – regardless of how it happened. The woman is under prosecution, is accused, and the matter comes up on Monday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e297	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Engen-Helgheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e302	I don't think the minister is so interested in answering the questions, because I mentioned that there are other issues, where the parents haven't done anything wrong, and where the children have the right to a Norwegian citizenship, but don't get it because they lack a document. They don't get any help from the government, while those who are terrorists are picked up, with the risk it entails. I note that the Minister will not answer that either. I have asked several questions about this matter in the past, including: on costs, and then the Minister replied that they would investigate what this whole operation has cost, that it was the woman herself who had to pay for this operation, and that these figures were to be published as soon as they were clear. Now it has been over a year, and I have not heard anything more about that matter. Then I wonder if the minister can confirm what the cost of this operation was, and that the IS woman has now paid that cost in full.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e309	I don't have the cost picture in front of me, but of course we can generate it. It is not that I do not respond to questions, but the representative does not like the answers he receives. To have to deal with Norwegian law is something we all have to do. Nor is it the case that no one is assisted by the U.D. or other Norwegian authorities, for example. there is a need for confirmation of citizenship. There's something the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is assisting at the foreign stations. But this is what I had in mind in my previous answer: If there are children living with their parents abroad, the parents are responsible. Parental responsibility is strong, and parents are also responsible for where the children are located. We cannot pick up children in violation of parents' wishes or otherwise intervene if the parents do not want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e318	Jon Engen-Helgheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e323	I think this is very interesting, because now I have repeatedly pointed out that I myself have been in personal contact with several parents who have lived with their children abroad. Some have children abroad while in Norway. There are several different fates out there, and a common denominator is that many of these do not get their children to Norway even if they can provide DNA evidence – but they lack a form required by the authorities. In this case with the IS terrorist there was no DNA test when performing the operation. There was no birth certificate. All the demands that are usually made to other citizens in a similar situation, but that have not done anything wrong, yes, those demands were waived when the mother was a member of a terrorist organisation. That discrimination, I think, requires the Minister to explain much better. Is it such that an exception is made if there is a member of a terrorist organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e328	This is wrong. There was a DNA test that confirmed the fun and confirmed citizenship, otherwise we could not carry out the operation we did, just as when we brought five orphan children to Norway in June 2019, and had to DNA-test these children to make sure they were Norwegian citizens. It does not differ in this case from other matters. If it is the case that the representative of Engen-Helgheim has individual matters for which he is a contact person, I recommend that he contact the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these matters, if there is anything we can help with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e333	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e338	My question goes to the Minister of Fisheries, and it is about a huge government drain of billions of dollars from coastal communities. In the dark of night, the Minister for Fisheries has taken money from the coastal communities and put it into the state treasury. Raising salmon is a major industry in Norway. Breeding creates large values, but also occupies large sea areas in municipalities. For this reason, the Centre Party has been aware that the municipalities will receive their share of the value creation from salmon farming. Once new rights have been granted to produce more salmon, they will be sold in auction. The industry pays billions of dollars to allow it to produce more. It was a great saying for the coast when the Senter party through negotiations in the Stortinget in 2015 got an impact on that 80 pst. Of these money would go to the municipalities and 20 pst. to the State. In 2020, it was predicted that the auction would give a little over 5 billion. kr. So, after the model that the Storting had agreed to and the Center Party fought for, the coastal communities would give 4 billion. kr for distribution. But at this point, the government party and the Progress Party had realized that this was too much, so they took 750 million. kr of the money and put it into the treasury. What is the reason why the Council of State and the Right believe it is right and important to give a smaller share of the money from the aquaculture industry to the coastal communities, and instead to transport these money from the coast to the Oslo treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e347	I would like to say to the representative Pollestad that this government has facilitated historical local ring-effects for the marine communities. Already in 2016 the first foundation was laid, and last year we paid 2.4 billion. SEK to the aquaculture communities – approx. 140 of them — which was then an increase in relation to the period before, 2018–2019. Then there's a question about the distribution of the auction proceeds. It is important to say that the smallest breeders actually increased their share of the auction, sold new capacity last year. However, local ring-effects have become significant, and it is important that municipalities get something left to facilitate aquaculture. In addition to the distribution of the auction proceeds, the government has also facilitated the creation of a new stable, perpetual income called the production fee, which can be budgeted for outside the municipalities. It is estimated to give about a quarter of the total population. 0.5 B.C.E. extra kr to the aquaculture communities. Then we've also put the dead discussion about rent taxes. It is very important for the industry and also provides the basis for further investment. What I think is great to see, is that we have an industry that is largely filled with family businesses. Therefore, the so-called discrimination tax on the wealth of Norwegian family businesses is also important to address. This government has done so by increasing the discount on property taxes on working capital. It means mass for the backbone of Norwegian business, which are family businesses. It was a bit of a change of words about this last year, and it is heard that some of the rapporteurs are becoming very self-sufficient. The center party has been a very diligent user of the state treasury lately and seems to be in the future as well. But when you hear some of the municipalities that have received significant payments, complain that they have not received enough, it is almost like hearing a lotto-millionaire complaint that he has won too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e358	Whether a person has won 5 million. kr in lotto, it's actually not good to take 2 million. kr of the money and say that one still has 3 million. So let's add another cent. That's what the Minister of Fisheries's logic is that we can take money from the coastal communities because they have so much. But this case is far worse than that, because it turns out that by 2020 the proceeds from the auctions were not 5 billion. kr, they were 7 billion. So it's going to be NOK 2 billion. kr more than the government had predicted. With the model that was there earlier, the municipalities had to have 80 pst. So with the right-hand model, they're going to get 0, 000 pst. of the extra 2 billion. The rest goes into the state register. This shows a very strong willingness for the incomes of the district industries to enter, and for the least possible to remain in the municipalities. What was the reason for that when one saw that one got 2 billion? kr more, when a person decides to take all these money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e368	Local ring-effects for aquaculture communities are at a historically high level. I think we have found a very good balance between local ring-effects and that the treasury should also be given funds. We see, especially now in the Corona era, the importance of having an economically strong state that can thrive when needed, and when needed. The balance between local ring effects and what is to enter the state box is important. The income system of municipalities also has to balance the differences, whether they are a municipality of agriculture or a municipality of power. Neither can they be themselves enough. It's going to be distributed evenly over, and I think it's important that we find a useful balance. I think we've done that with the solution we came up with last year, which is 2.4 billion. kr to the aquaculture communities. Then, through the production fee, incentives are given to facilitate further development of the industry, of course within a sustainable framework. There are great possibilities for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e375	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e380	This is, of course, about the possibility of creating good communities along the whole coast. This is about investing in schools, on the road and in broadband, about facilitating, turning the population down and creating optimism along the coast. But it doesn't seem that the Minister for Fisheries understands what this is, he just says these municipalities are greedy. They've got so much, so if the state takes something back, it's okay. The balance requested by the Minister for Fisheries found Stortinget in 2015. That's this plural has deviations from. What does this mean for communities around 2020 and 2021? Well, that means the municipality of Stavanger loses 44 million. NOK 8 million. NOK 13 million. kr, Luray 25 mill. SEK, Rising 28 million. NOK, Osterøy 10 million. SEK, Nærøsund 79 million. SEK and Hasvik in Finnmark 6 million. kr. Think what this could create of bubly. Is it the Minister for Fisheries's view that coastal communities have enough, so do they need no more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e391	In fact, the coastal communities and aquaculture communities have received 2.4 billion. Extra kroner. It is now manufactured as if they have almost lost money, but they have actually received 2.4 billion. kr. There are significant local ring-effects and, in addition, the production fee of 40 øre per kilogram of fish produced in its municipality. I think we have found a system with a proper balance between local ring effects and that the big community should also have its share. It is very important to work to achieve a more positive development in the districts. It's related to a lot of things. Fisheries policy cannot take sole responsibility for the whole of the rural policy. It is also about facilitating a profitable industry, such as aquaculture, and also fisheries. It's a very good starting point to build on. It is about ensuring that we have market access for these products, for example. through the EEA Agreement, for which we do not need to spread uncertainty, as the Centre Party unfortunately does, and endangers many jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e398	Cecilie Myrseth – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e403	Ensuring value creation and ring-fence in coastal communities is essential for the development of the aquaculture industry. It's not like you're just taking money, you're also moving activity. On Friday, the Minister of Fisheries granted a derogation to the Sea Lines slaughtering farmed fish directly from the mermaids and for processing in Denmark. As the Fischerbladt writes in its position today, this will certainly lead to more companies flagging out and having a major impact on the rural industry in Norway, i.e. the loss of more industrial jobs. I have to ask: does the government have a plan when they allow slaughter boats to retrieve fish directly from the mermaids and for processing abroad? How will this affect the willingness of municipalities to facilitate the use of land for the industry? What is the government's strategy when you allow this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e412	Sea Line is a very special case. It has been legal, and we have found that making a comparison with individual cases that this company has been the best way to deal with a special situation. Now they're going to have a ten-year derogation to run the business they started in their time. Then the dispute has been about when this fish quality regulation was implemented. It's a special situation for a single company, and it's not relevant for other companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e417	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e422	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The development of the population in North Norway is alarming. According to recent SSB figures, Troms, Finnmark and Nordland are the most populous states, and the worst of them are in the high north. "The municipalities that have been the Troms and Finnmark of today have not had a major cumulative decline since 1997", writes SSB. It came out on February 23rd this year. This happens at the same time as the government of both the Sundvolden platform and the Granavolden platform determines that the northern regions are Norway's main foreign policy and strategic responsibility. In the Nordgebiet message we have for treatment in Stortinget no, write to the government: ‘Nordic interests in the Arctic and North regions must be asserted by a vigorous and competent North Norway. It is of national and security policy importance that people live in the north, and that communities are strong and robust.’ Nevertheless, there is a sharp decline in population which has not been greater since 1997 and which has been shown to have accelerated under this government. In this perspective, it is discouraging to read the North Region Communication, for it describes the challenges in North Norway in detail, open and honest, but then it is almost a ribba for tools for how to improve the life base of people in the north. Not only is this pointed by SV; there is the tone of transition in all replies from the government's hearing. There is a lot of description and little action here. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply: if it is of ‘national, security policy importance that there are people living in the north’, why is the government responsible for the greatest population decline since the last thousand years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e438	Here there were many different premises, but I am very pleased that the representative of Knag Fylkesnes has now been involved in the North Region Communication, because when we presented the North Region Communication, the representative was most concerned about dropping down on the choice of the place to present it, namely at Trasti & Trine in Alta, which is a fantastic example of both business life and how to develop housing in the north. So this big message has a part that previous north-eastern messages haven't had, and that's the part that's about the development in North Norway. It has been explicitly omitted by the Northern Region Communication that was submitted when SV joined the government, and from this government we believe that it is an important element in shaping the Northern Region Policy, which is about both foreign policy and domestic policy. From the Norwegian side, it has always been that we have been concerned with a very active North Region diplomacy to assert our interests in the northern regions. At the same time, the government in this message says that one of the most important things we can do, and a good investment to assert both our sovereign rights and not least our position in the northern regions, is an active and viable North Norway. This is one of the reasons why we invited a 50-year-old youth panel to point out exactly what it is that creates housing, what makes you stay in the rural area, and not least how to manage to develop the huge resource base that exists. The other thing we did, among many other things, was to decide a fund for business development and investment. It's a fund that's been in demand. The last time you did it, it didn't work out completely. This time we have great faith that it will work, and one of the reasons we're taking that proposal with us is that when half of the government in September was on a tour with the Prime Minister at the head, one of the recordings we got most of the time was: how to raise more capital for, among other things. start enterprises? It will provide housing and boating activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e449	It's quite right that I go down to the north area message, as many others did, because it's completely uncontained. She describes things well in detail, but when it comes to the piece, there's very little content in it. So, once again, there's a big event, where you're going to show the exotic in North Norway, and you're not going to point the way forward. I did not criticize the location - I criticized the message. The Spider Doctors in the Right want to make it something else than that, but it wasn't. It is very interesting that the Council of State is bringing out the Youth Panel, because it is very liberating to read their message, which is at the very bottom of this document – as an attachment. Young people just describe that there must be less pumping and splendour: ‘It must not be just talk and arrangement. We young people need something to look forward to, which happens at regular intervals, not just a one-time event with pomp and splendour, and then everyone goes. Measures and offers must be permanent.» Would you like the government to follow up on the recordings the young people have made? Nothing about this is in the north area notification. Should they just be heard and forgotten?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e462	I withdraw what I said about the representative of Knag Fylkesnes having read the Northern Territory message, for he obviously cannot have done that. Firstly, the entire input from the Youth Panel is attached, but it is also included in the message itself, and it is followed up in the budget. That was the whole point of doing that too – among other things. a fund for young people, which is one of the measures we discussed with the Youth Panel. We have many different actions, in both culture, education and industry, which are the direct consequences of the recordings we have received over two years of work on the message, through over one hundred meetings with different actors in the north. I feel, unlike the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, that there is great enthusiasm for many parts of this in the north. There will always be someone who disagrees with something, but the picture being drawn is simply not correct. It's not like the representative Knag Fylkesnes just raked down on the message – he called our launch an 'olufierung'. I think that's a very special statement, when we're at one of those places in Alta where you really get to the development of nutrition, and you really get to the home.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e471	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e476	We can go on with the 'olufisation' and ask the next questions to the Minister for Fisheries. Fishing is an important industry in the north, and decisive for the development of the continent. There too we have seen a very centralization – we have seen it in a lot of areas during this period of government, whether it has our educational centering, the municipalities, the county, the police, the Nav, Innovation Norway, cut in and weaken preparedness, food. The list is long. But especially in the fisheries field, we've seen a colossal concentration of ownership and a shift of values. Nofima has recently pointed to that development. They've come up with a report that was posted in the Christmas room. The report showed that Bærum is among the municipalities that are most interested in value creation before fishing in the north. They are significantly above Boat fjord, they are larger than Ants and so far turned by Tromsø. Does the Minister for Fisheries see that this development is negative for the part of the country – that much of the value creation goes to places other than where there is fishing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e483	I remember the Oluf sketch about the German trawler that ended up in the rocks. It's okay to reflect a little bit on it, because over many decades of good work, the Svalbard zone, etc., we've avoided wild fishing and wild west. It'll benefit the people of the coast. It's important to remember. Then we're going to work on what's at owner's concentration, which the representative is at. We will come forward with a proposal that will be put to the hearing. We want a scattered ownership, also in the coastal fleet. It is important to say that now we have succeeded in obtaining a profitable fishing industry. For approx. 30 years ago it was a subsidised industry. This has led to structural changes, fewer and larger vessels, but also to better working conditions and increased profitability, which are a good starting point for developing more activity and more jobs along our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e492	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e497	In the previous article that the Council of State had, it was about gold years for the fishing industry: It's right, but gold years for who? The background figure here is that the value creation that is generated along the coast benefits quite elsewhere in the country. We often talk about Båtsfjord and the developments there, but Oslo goes in five times more of the value creation that happens in fishing than what Båtsfjord does, which is a very important fishing force in the north. Eagles with Ants have only a little bit more of the value creation than Oslo, but are turned off by Bærum, which is almost the same size in collecting the value creation. We know that there is not a single fisherman and not a mermaid in Bærum, but they're moving in more of the value creation. This development has accelerated under this government. If the values created there are subtracted from the region, how do you construct the north areas? It is a major challenge for the Minister for Fisheries. How is he going to reverse the negative development there, if he views it as negative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e502	First we can well see that people began to move to the cities 3,000 years B.C., when the town of Sumer was founded, and that's the way it still has. It's almost like a slow river and gravity. People must also be allowed to choose where they want to live. But what we have done is to get a number of Norwegian family businesses that now have capital to make investments. See, for example: on North salmon and on the Holmøy group, which has billions of investments going on to develop new jobs, which contribute to the light in the houses along the coast, which it would not have been if we had not had these people standing on and working. Speaking of Bærum, I guess it has its answer in that there are some head offices registered there. In addition, there is a Northern Norwegian shipping company in Lødingen that has had to register its new vessel there – for the first time a Norwegian shipping company has bought a southern Norwegian vessel, and it is at present. located in Bærum. We'll see if we can do something about it. But they also pay corporate taxes, all of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e509	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e514	The point here is that a greater and greater part of the work done along the coast and the value of it benefits other parts of the country, because one has organized the fishing industry in this way. If a person is really going to get bogged down and the development of the northern part of the country, one of them has to reverse that development – of course in other areas as well. If not, one is left with a weakening of the coastal communities, as the Riksrevision has pointed out that today's fisheries policy is leading to. Here, the radical approach must be, unless the negative development of the population, with which the Foreign Minister does not intend to do anything special. So the question to the Council of State is, when does one come back to the Storting with radical grips that reverse evolution? Do you want to do it with this government, or is it what many people say, that the only thing that can know for sure about today's government is that more and more people are going out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e521	I do not agree with the representative. To facilitate profitable industries, as this government does, that we have so many family businesses in my particular area, fisheries and seafood, and the overweight of it, is a very good starting point for developing things further. I do not believe that the state will begin to establish e.g. the fishing industry. We've tried that before, and it didn't work. We have to facilitate that private people want to bet, we have to have market access, we have to have a profitable industry, and then we have to have a sustainable management of our fishing resources. So let's see, for example. In Finland, more fish are now landed in quantities, but are not able to convert it into increased value creation in the form of processing. It requires, among other things: has a processed fish market, so to speak. I think the most important thing we do is to cheer up family businesses, the backbone of Norwegian business. The people who stand there every day to build both their business and their community are the best starting point we have to do something about the population development in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e530	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e536	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Without a doubt, the kids and the most vulnerable among the kids are paying the highest price for the coronary apathy and shutdowns. A pre-filled child protection without enough people is an example of how bad it is now. Children and young people who need special efforts to meet their needs and their parents have experienced, through the various closures, that relief offers and necessary follow-up have been taken from them completely or have been drastically reduced due to infectious agents’ concerns. Many parents around and their kids are very tired now. In our children’s minister, the government assured that all municipalities should be able to, and also monitored, to maintain relief and relief services and to find other and equivalent solutions where there was a need for changes in infectious diseases. So they should have their needs met. It hasn't happened. Both the Løvemmane parental group and a study by the Parental Association of Disabled Children show a serious gap between the child minister’s promise and the reality of these children and their parents. Parents and young people have lost all support, meet closed rather than open doors, and desperate employees in municipalities around have called for resources to be able to handle this through the crisis. Why has the Minister for Children not managed to ensure that his promise that our most vulnerable young people would have their needs met while maintaining the protection of their infection has been kept?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e547	First, I would like to thank you for a very important question. This is one of the governments that has had the highest on the agenda throughout the pandemic – how can we avoid having children and young people hit by the strict measures that we have had to take in the meantime? Therefore, once we have put forward the main strategy for how to deal with the pandemic, taking into account children and young people has been the number one priority. If one settles for 2020, the government has compensated the municipalities with approx. 19 B.C.E. kr. In the budget submitted for 2021, we agreed with KS, i.e. the municipalities, extra expenditure of 7-8 billion. kr. We've allocated almost 9 billion. NOK, so we actually granted more than that working group pointed to. So we've always said, from day one, that we're going to compensate for the extra costs associated with the corona. We have also said that now, and I stress that again, so when the revision comes, this will also be one of the points that we will of course consider when it comes to the need for additional appropriations for the municipalities. We have also been on guard against the state administrators, which in turn apply to the municipalities. I have met with many both state administrators and municipal politicians who are making a crazy effort to just ensure that the kids get a good offer. They're doing a very good job. They have demanding assessments when dealing with an outbreak, while knowing that it can have consequences for children and young people. But what we've been saying all along is: don't re-dispose health caregivers, because they are vital to children and young people, so instead of using them for infection tracking or testing, you can use others, for example. from emergency pools, make your own list of who can do so. We have had specific actions aimed at the different groups to which the representative refers in order to ensure that they are provided with funds. But here we just have to realize that this is a demanding field in the middle of the pandemic, and this is some of what I'm most concerned about, and has the most attention focused on. I can promise that I do not think the last allocation for this has come from the government either.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e558	There is no doubt that there is a excruciating need in the municipalities for reimbursement of the additional costs incurred in all sectors of society through the coronary apathy. It is up to the Minister for Children and the government to ensure that municipalities are able to provide their citizens with the most basic well-being. I'm very concerned about the stories we're hearing, about the most vulnerable kids and parents of these kids who already have it tough party, even before the pandemic, now through the crisis have experienced losing support measures, losing relief and being exhausted. The Minister of Children guaranteed that he would see to it that these were met through the crisis. It hasn't happened. Then I hear the Council of State say that he is aware of this, and that is great, but I wonder: What has the Council of State and the Government done to monitor how the practice has been in the municipalities and in the urban areas of the largest cities to have the overview enough to be able to go in with extra resources and impose obligations where children and parents do not get their needs met?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e565	We have had regular surveys in the municipalities through the state administrators just to get feedback on this. As I said, the government has had a working group with KS – with municipalities – to identify what the costs are. The municipalities themselves have said here is the amount, and then the government has gone even higher and given even more to the municipalities than they pointed out where they needed to meet their needs. As I said, we also see the situation on an ongoing basis – this is a continuous working group, and when the revision comes in May, this will of course be one of the issues where we have said that if there is a need for more money, we will come up with it. I'm very clear to every municipality that there's no need to take away the health care providers, there's no need to remove the relief offer. If there's extra costs that are the challenge because they're going to have infection tracking or something else, yes, they're going to have to cover it. Obviously, if there's a huge outbreak all of a sudden, we all understand that for a few days it's hard to deal with the situation and you have to change your mind. But let there be no doubt: there is no need to cut off the important offers, on the contrary. I am more concerned about the future, and therefore we need to ensure that these offers are up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e572	There will be follow-up questions – first Anette Trettebergstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e577	Yeah, we can look forward, because there's no reason to think that the last local cases of shutdowns are over under this pandemic, it's going to continue. Every time it happens, it's these kids and these parents it's going to go the hardest way out. The Council of State boasts of the appropriations allocated to the municipalities. It's a reality in which the municipal politicians and the employees of the municipalities don't recognize themselves. Additional appropriations are urgently needed to deal with this sector in the future. The Minister for Children is responsible for the care of these children. We can stop talking about the snow that fell last year and last year, but let's look ahead. How will the Council of State now ensure that the municipalities have both resources and personnel, and in fact ensure that these young people and these parents get their concrete needs met in the course of the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e586	I would first like to repeat that together with the municipalities we have a working group that points to what the costs are. Together, a result can be found. The government has overcompensated it precisely because we do not want the municipalities to cut off the offer, and we are concerned about the offer to children and young people. It's a line we've been on until now, and it's a line I want to continue because I'm concerned that the services are up. I'm worried about the short-term consequences that come if there's new infections, because we know with this mutant there's probably going to be local shutdowns, but I'm just as concerned about the long-term effects. We've been living with a pandemic for almost a year. For many children and young people who have a hard time, the consequences can be dramatic in the future as well. That is why I am pleased that the government and government parties, together with the Progress Party, have granted 100 million. kr extra to the BUP this week, e.g. – child and youth psychiatry – but we also want to follow the longer-term consequences closely. This is something the Minister of Health is also working on just these days to get a better overview, to know what action needs to be taken to help in the short term, but also in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e593	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e598	I take it for granted that both the Minister for Children and the Minister for Health follow closely the long-term consequences of the pandemic, but that doesn't mean that you shouldn't be concerned about the short-term consequences for those who have the very tough thing right now. You have to solve that, too. It's great with money for the municipalities, but it's not like that. The municipalities need more. It also limits the possibility of making an offer in these areas. You have to find creative solutions. The council points to a working group, and it is also great, but everyone who lives in the municipalities and has a tough situation now knows that things are going on. People are worn out. This is not the case with a working group and that long-term consequences should be considered in the future. What we need is a real crisis package for vulnerable children and young people in all areas of society and urgently now ensure that the most vulnerable young people who need special efforts, and their parents who are exhausted, can breathe out in the future and think that at the next shutdown they will all get their needs met. Can the Council of State guarantee it, as he actually guaranteed this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e605	I can stand here and say that in 2020 we granted 1.5 billion. kr for exceptional targeted actions. In this year's budget, we have hundreds of millions of different measures, as I said. This week we've allocated 100 million. SEK 100 million for child and youth psychiatry. SEK for low-threshold services, school health services, etc. But at some point, it's not necessarily just the money that's enough. It is important that the municipalities prioritise this in their municipality. A person may understand that for a short period of time, when it is an exceptional case, it is difficult to enlist, but they must have emergency lists. They must be able to pick up other staff, so that they do not take those who either relieve a family or work in the school health service, because these are staff who are scarce and who are vulnerable. Then they must also work with the most vulnerable children and young people. This is something we follow very closely, and I'm going to promise that I, the Minister of Municipal Affairs, the Minister of Health and several people have met regularly with state administrators, and we'll send letters to the municipalities and remind them of it. My impression is that very many people do a great job, both in dealing with infection and in ensuring that children and young people get a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e610	Anette Trettebergstuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e616	Yes, the employees out there in the municipalities who are going to follow up these kids and their parents and stand in the middle of a pandemic, do a fantastic job – so that's what they say. But they need extra resources and support from the government to do their job. I hear that the Council of State will not give the kind of guarantees that he gave us, that he will not make any extra efforts towards the municipalities to ensure that these needs are met in the future, and that he will not do anything special to ensure that the municipalities do this. But let me go over to another area that's in the Council's portfolio. Child protection was already before the pandemic was overburdened by cases; there were not enough employees to deal with matters. There is a shortage of staff in the important child protection. This has been exacerbated by the pandemic crisis, and child protection needs extra resources. Will the Minister for Children, the Council of State, follow up the Workers' Party's repeated calls for a crew plan and increase the number of child protection posts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e625	First, I just want to say again that no matter how many times the representative repeats it, it should not be allowed to remain as a leftover impression: we have compensated the municipalities. We have dialogues and groups working with municipalities to find out what the municipalities are for, and we have compensated for more than what the municipalities say. Then there are certainly some municipalities that are in an extraordinary situation. That is why we have granted a large proportion of the funds as a discretionary resource, so that the State Manager can grant more to those municipalities that are struggling extra. At least I can almost guarantee that it will be increased in revision, because due to the recent rounds that have been, the estimate will increase, and then the government will come back to it. I can't stand here and guarantee in each case, in each municipality, because it's the municipalities that run this for themselves, but we set them up financially, and then we clearly tell them to do this. In the case of child protection, the last report of January shows that there is relatively good child protection status. Since 2013, there have been 1,400 more employees in the protection of children. That's an increase of 30 pst. This has been an important priority for the government, and I'm very happy that we've got that increase, so that they can take care of the very most vulnerable kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e634	Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e639	Unfortunately, as the representative of Trettebergstien points out, it is too obvious that the vulnerable children with the need for additional assistance from the public are those who suffer extra now under the pandemic. This applies not least to those who had extensive, serious and life-threatening mental health disorders before the Corona, as 245 psychologists and psychologists earlier this week rewritten in a chronicle of the NRK opinion. According to the many chroniclers, these children and young people now have much more serious problems than before the pandemic, and these professionals also write about healthy children becoming ill. The chroniclers demand proper action from the authorities, and they therefore do not believe that it helps with increased funds for municipalities and health businesses as long as it does not lead to more employees in their field. They require more staff in the service and the establishment of several emergency services for seriously ill children and young people. We think this in the Center Party is very serious. I expect the Council of State will like that. He is now talking in the Questionnaire about a grant for mental health, but does that money go directly to what is demanded from these professionals? What other things will the Minister do now to comply with their recommendation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e646	I saw it excited, and I look very seriously at it and share the concern. As I said to the representative Trettebergstien, we are also concerned about the long-term effects of the pandemic. It's clear that it's extremely demanding for many kids and young people who have it tough, to experience that everyday life is going to be very different. The most important thing for a lot of these kids is that they have safe adults around them. Many don't have it at home, and then it's our job to set up for them. The most important thing we can do is to make sure that they have the school health service, that they have the health center, that they can go to school, that they can go to leisure activities, can experience meeting the safe adults they are used to meeting. As the representative refers to, we've made 100 million. kr to child and youth psychiatry, The Storting granted it this week. Exactly how these funds are to be distributed, one almost has to ask the Minister of Health, but this is something we are still going to follow very closely. We're also going to look in particular at what it's going to have in the future. Now we hope that we can open up society more and more, and hopefully we'll get into an even more normal situation over the summer, but then it's also important that we're shot to meet the wave that can come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e653	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e658	My question goes to the Council of State, Ropstad. It's been almost an entire year since the Constitution of Religion was passed in Stortinget. In this law, the Progress Party negotiated the majority take-up of religious communities receiving money or contributions from countries that do not themselves respect religious freedom to lose government grants in Norway. The text of the law was adopted directly in Stortinget after the negotiations, but although it has been a year after this happened, the government has not yet implemented this part of the law. In the meantime, The newspaper in a series of cases revealed how both Norwegian and Swedish communities have had connections with very worrying actors – with dubious intentions, if I dare say – from authoritarian countries that do not themselves respect freedom of belief. My question to the Council of State is: Why has this taken so long, and how long does the government need to implement the law that the Stortinget passed almost a year ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e669	Foreign funding for Norwegian religious communities is something I am also concerned about. It can threaten important Norwegian democratic values on which our society is founded, and fear is also that it can lead to increased segregation, and that in the worst case, there may be ties behind these means that we really don't want. Therefore, when we proposed a new creed law for the Storting, we also introduced a reporting requirement from the religious communities to make it clear whether they had financial funding from abroad. As the representative points out, we already knew that since this was not done, it would not be possible to bring into force the rest of the religious community law, which came into force this year. But I can promise that we have a joint working group with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs working on the matter. That's a lot of stuff. Exactly the exact date for when Section 6 of the law can also come into force, I cannot come with me now. It is also a little about the dilemmas you face, because what the Stortinget adopted in the legal text was for example. accepting contributions from States which do not respect the right to freedom of belief and freedom of life. It is important to capture what is the intention of the Storting here, and then it also requires that you have done better than what was on the basis. But this is a major priority for me, and I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also giving priority to the matter. We hope to return to Stortinget as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e678	In the case of the Creed Society Act, the Progress Party was given the impression that the government would make legislative changes in order to prohibit so-called fixed overnight afterschool offers, which could contribute to negative social control, radicalisation or segregation. This was a breakthrough for the Progress Party, among other things. after the detection of so-called Koran School SFOs, which caused great concern. The time is ticking, the ageing period is approaching the end, and we now have a majority who have committed themselves in the negotiations to support such a ban. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State when he will come to Stortinget with these legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e685	This is a request decision followed by the Ministry of Knowledge, but, as the representative is familiar with it, we are working with an action plan related to negative social control, and this is one of the actions and areas that it would be natural to work with in that context. Just when it comes, I can't stand here and say, since it's under the Ministry of Knowledge, but there's no doubt that here it's important that you have good measures. I would also just like to stress that the very religion law that we agreed on and that was adopted has more detailed clarifications about what is needed to lose some or all of the state aid. There it points, among other things. negative social control as one of the criteria. It is the state administrators, former statesmen, who administer this scheme, and the ministry is the Board of Appeal, so I guess there may be several issues related to these challenges that will be addressed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e692	There will be follow-up questions – first Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e698	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It has been revealed that 16 mosques in Norway have received financial support from religious dictatorships, such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the Emirates, Kuwait and Turkey. Large amounts of money are being sent to individuals in Norway, with a record of 30 million to date. kr sent from Saudi Arabia to a private individual. This is money that finances radical mosques and imams that spread anti-democratic attitudes, it counteracts integration and undermines our freedom and the values of our freedom, not least. Religious freedom is that different religions are accepted, that each can choose his religion or not have a religion. It's not spreading hateful messages. I would like to know: What does the Foreign Minister think is the reason why authoritarian Islamic countries want to fund radical religious communities in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e707	As the representative is involved, we take this issue very seriously, and the Council of State, Ropstad, has also explained how the government works on this. It is a problem that is not unique to Norway, and it also makes us follow the international picture on this. We're working from the U.D. with the BFD to put the criteria for this in law. It's simply because it's a complicated process, it's not a very straightforward process, so we also work together to find good criteria. I would also like to add that freedom of belief and life is a matter of government priority in foreign and development policy. We have doubled the support for this work globally, because we see that freedom of belief and life – and also the right to not believe – is now under strong pressure in many places. We also experience that there is a kind of first indicator that there is a wrong way with other human rights when that type of rights is put under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e714	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e719	This was a non-answer. I'll take the question first, and then I can take the reasoning afterwards. What does the Foreign Minister think is the reason why authoritarian Islamic countries want to finance radical religious communities in Norway? I would like an answer to that question. So I've heard from Minister Ropstad and now from the Minister for Foreign Affairs that you have full pressure, it's hard, you don't get it, you have to talk to abroad, and you spend a lot of money abroad. But that's not what we've decided in Stortinget. We want to know what the government is doing to stop these cash flows. Is it such that a small deal has been made to accommodate the Security Council, or are there agreements with these countries? Why can't you immediately say that they should not get money from Saudi Arabia – Saudi Arabia, President – to Norway, to Norwegian mosques? I don't understand why you have to have an investigation – Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Ine Eriksen Soreide are going to sit together to find some way to punish these countries, or that they don't get any support. It then goes on without spending years on it. Now it's almost a choice. You might think that in a few months' time I'm not a foreign minister, so I don't have to do anything about it, but it doesn't last.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e730	Here it was as usual a lot, and the representative Tybring-Gjedde does not allow a question time to go away without making a link between the Security Council membership and almost everything he thinks is bad and difficult, even this time. It is neither my opinion nor that we are not getting this done, but since this was adopted directly within the committee and thus has no preprocessor or specifically any other connection to it, it is simply a complicated task to find the right criteria so that we are sure that we are making the right decision to comply with the Storting decision. Norway’s work on freedom of belief and life internationally is important, and there is no contradiction between it and at the same time working on this issue – which is what governments are now doing and follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e737	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e742	The question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last Wednesday, the Prime Minister was here in the Questionnaire and assured the representatives of the Central Party that the government can deal with challenges with foreign purchases of key Norwegian infrastructure or strategic interests based on the Security Act. It concerns everything from land to natural resources, strategic infrastructure and ownership in Norwegian companies. The reason why we asked that question to the Prime Minister last week was that it was two weeks since the PST launched a new threat assessment for 2021, where the warning comes against especially Chinese and Russian buying-in of important, strategic Norwegian companies, natural resources, properties and companies. It didn't take very long before that issue was updated, because it was recently known that Rolls-Royce has now signed an agreement with the Russian company TMH International to sell an engine factory in Bergen, among other things. delivering marine engines to the Naval Defense. Among other things, the new coastguards get their engines from Bergen Engines, and one of the ships has already had such an engine installed. With the purchase to which it is now subject, not only do Russian interests gain control of the factory and technology there, but they are also given responsibility for the maintenance and follow-up of Norwegian coastguard ships. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has only shown that this is a commercial agreement between two commercial operators they do not want to engage in, and the U.D. has only shown that Bergen Engines is still going to be subject to export control. Then I wonder: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the Security Act is comprehensive when a sale like this is feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e753	It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is responsible for the Security Act, as the representative well knows. In this case, we are concerned that the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has said that this is a transaction, a commercial agreement, and that is also the case that the Ministry of Defence then has to assess the agreements they have on, for example. construction and maintenance, and the companies they want to use. That being said, it is generally such that this is a problem the government is considering on an ongoing basis. In today’s security policy situation, it is also important to have both an alert eye on the Security Act and always ensure that the Security Act is adequate for the needs we have. When we created a new security law, which came into force on 1 January 2019, it was 20 years since the last security law was passed. It did not take account of this type of problem. What we have now done with the law, and what was the whole main point of the law, was to ensure that in today's situation, the businesses subject to the security law must also be subject to a clause, a basis that allows for example. in a given situation, a transaction with a company governed by the Security Act may be terminated. But in addition to this, the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and the Ministry of Justice and Defence are responsible for these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e762	This is a matter that seems to be going between many chairs, because here we have both the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and Defence that push the ball a little over to each other. But it's about security policy and foreign policy. The defence expressed concerns that this sale could contribute to a safety risk for the Norwegian defence. According to a researcher at the Marine War School in Bergen, who is researching security and defence policy, this technology could help to strengthen the Russian Navy because they are currently struggling to build their own engines for semi-finished military ships by shipyards in Russia, which they now have access to through the purchase in Bergen. He says that it will give a large technology transfer to Russia that will make it much easier for the Russian Navy to grow fast. The question is, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that such sales can contribute to a faster build-up of Russian defence capabilities? If yes, what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about the significance of this for Norwegian foreign and security policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e771	The representative, Mr Eger Mehl, is concerned about what the defence has expressed, and the opinion of the Ministry of Defence about it, and it must be addressed to the Minister of Defence. I do not understand what concerns the defence may have provided, and that question must therefore be addressed to the Minister of Defence. Having said that, as I said, it is an important priority for the government to contribute to the fact that we have legislation and legislation that allows us to have a very tight framework around critical infrastructure, procurement, etc., and we also have that through the security law that was passed. We are in Norway quite far ahead of many other countries in terms of pensions, for example. to stop buying or acquiring units. We believe that this is important, because even with today's technological development, there are often quite different assessments that need to be made than it was when the Safety Act was relatively new, that is, the old Safety Act, which could not take up these types of assessments and which also had insufficient warranties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e778	There will be follow-up questions – first Sigbjørn Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e784	I hear the Foreign Minister points to other government councils. It is well that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is part of the government's security committee. This is quite a fundamental question. Coast Guard is part of the military defence of Norway. They themselves describe their own goal of being: “Always present – do with what we have”, throughout the year. The first thing that they're drawing out as one of their many tasks is sovereignty. This sale is not just about future acquisitions. It is a coastguard ship that today has engines from this company, Bergen Engines, which will also be responsible for servicing and maintenance in the future. This is about Russian interests, that is from a country with which Norway does not cooperate in security, and against which the PST warns in its threat assessments. Does the Foreign Minister not see the seriousness of the situation, and why does he not consider using the Security Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e795	I just have to repeat that it is the Ministry of Justice and Security that is responsible for the Security Act and the Defence and Defence Department that has to answer any questions related to maintenance agreements or how they assess this. I don't have an in-depth knowledge of that, and it's therefore important to keep the division of labour that is. I just want to repeat what I said to the representative, Mr Mehl, namely that the government is generally alert to these issues, because there is a trend towards this being an area that is becoming increasingly complicated, where there are more and more actors inside, and where we are interested from the Norwegian side at all times in that of course we both have good control and that the companies subject to the Security Act are complying with the Security Act. We also have an up-to-date and modern legislation, which we also need to consider at all times whether it needs to be further updated or whether it needs to be added in order for it to be in line with developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e802	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e807	For approx. two weeks ago I took the initiative to meet the Minister of Defense just because I had heard rumors or information about this situation, that this company Bergen Engines has been bought up. I spoke to the Minister of Defense, and he made good mines for a wasteful game, as it is called. I don't think he knew about this – it didn't work like that. He would follow it up further. He could not follow it up, and I do not know what he has done. In any case, there were leaks to the media around, it was both in the Defence Forum online and in the Official Journal of Bergen, so that matter is followed. This is a very serious matter, and it does not help to be from another department. This is just as serious for the Foreign Minister as it is for the Minister of Defence or another minister. Maritime defence depends on a Russian-controlled company for operation and maintenance on a number of vessels. The Russian Navy is given access to advanced engine technologies that make their vessels both faster and more stationary, and advanced engine and turbine technologies are transferred to Russia. Does the Foreign Minister see that this is serious, and then I am serious about the status of ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e816	In fact, it is not possible for me to give an answer to what the Minister of Defence has said or done in meetings with the representative Tybring-Gjedde. Once again, the question has to be addressed to the Minister of Defence. As I have seen in all my previous answers, the Security Act is the most important tool we have. So the businesses that fall under the Security Act have specific obligations under that law. It is always important to be vigilant about individual countries, individual purchases, acquisitions of units, etc. may conflict with either the Security Act or for other reasons not be in line with Norwegian interests, but it is therefore the Security Act that is the legal framework around and that may stop a purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e823	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e837	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The changes were as follows: Question 1, by Mr Olsen, representative of the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative Sylvi Listhaug to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e857	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e865	‘In several articles in the newspaper, we can read that Avinor assesses the co-location of control centres in the smoke and in the sun. This is a kind of decision Avinor can usually take alone, because they are organized as a separate AS. Does the Council of State agree that since this may also weaken the preparedness of the Central Rescue Centre of the Sun, should not Avinor decide this alone, and in that case has the Council of State considered taking action to prevent the closure or movement of the Central Control Centre of the Sun?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e872	I would like to thank the representative, Roy Steffensen, for a very good question. I want to say, in the introduction, that aviation and Avinor are hard on the pandemic. By 2020, there was a need to pay out an operating grant to Avinor of 3.6 billion. kr, and recently the government has asked the Storting for a license that takes a height for an addition of another 2.75 billion. kr first half 2021. It is therefore important to facilitate long-term reconversion and planning of Avinor’s remuneration in general, in order to limit backs demand. This question, which is an assessment of a co-location, is a result of a requirement from the authorities. Avinor needs a larger area for the underpass, located at Stavanger Airport. Avinor is currently working on three different options to resolve this, and one of the options is the co-location of the control centre at Stavanger Airport with the control centre in smoke, as pointed out by the representative Steffensen. Another option is to move to another location in the Stavanger area, and the third option is to stay at today's location, but with a larger area. As a background for the distribution, Avinor has asked for input from key actors such as the move, and the Main Rescue Center has expressed concern about the consequences that pilots will no longer be physically present to assist in rescue operations if the en route service is moved to the Smoke. For the government, it is decided that the capacity of the rescue service and the ability to carry out complex search and rescue operations shall be maintained. In case of major rescue operations, coordination of air resources is very important. I experience having a good dialogue with Avinor on this matter. In general, I believe that in their conversion processes, Avinor takes care of safe and stable operations and has a good dialogue with social actors and added them as the switch-over. In this specific case, I therefore particularly consider that Avinor has a good dialogue with the Head Rescue Centre, so that preparedness is maintained in this distribution process. I feel that it's an important question. I feel that Avinor has made sure that they should have that dialogue now. So they're evaluating three different options. It is within the mandate of Avinor to do so, and I feel that I have a dialogue with Avinor on the matter that I think is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e893	Thanks for the answer. It was more uplifting than I might have hoped. I am pleased that the Council of State is making it clear that it is very important to bring with it the preparedness capacity of the Main Rescue Center and is clear that Avinor must have a close dialogue with HRS in the further work before a decision is taken. I think that's very positive. But the Council of State also said that Avinor is experiencing a decline in the economy because of the corona, and that the reorganisation must be seen in the light of it. Then I wonder if the Council of State seriously believes that it is right that we should live with a possibly permanently weakened preparedness as a result of a momentary decline in the income of Avinor due to a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e900	No, we're not going to experience that. Security goes above all in aviation. My point is that I feel that there is a two-part question from the representative Steffensen. I'm concerned that Avinor should have his usual freedom; they should be able to evaluate things. We know that when the extension of Gardermoen came, there was never a decision in Stortinget. It was done on Avinor's own behalf. And then I feel that this case, which involves the disposal of - call it - authority imposed things: they need more space, and they consider three alternatives. Then it's very important with that dialogue with HRS, just to see that perspective. I feel that Avinor is taking himself inwards. It's not like they're looking at one option, moving to the Smoke, that's not what they're doing. They're looking at three options, and they have a close dialogue about this. Nor do I see that there is any decision in the near future about this, and we have to see the wholeness in the matter, as the representative Steffensen points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e905	Thank you very much for your answer. I interpret this as having to land quite positively in the end. It is also mentioned that several alternatives have been discussed, including: area. It's about the need for a simulator. The municipality has pointed out that it is important to compare the economy of the various projects, to compare apples and apples and pears and pears, and it has been suggested that a whole new construction on the Sun is needed in order to be able to move on. The municipality of Sol has pointed out that a small addition to the existing location will be sufficient and that it will give a completely different cost picture. It must be taken into account in the calculation, while taking into account the cost of moving to the smoke, where appropriate, while at the same time introducing new skills, and the costs around it. I hope that the Council of State sees the value of this and will ensure that the decision is made on the basis of as much equal a basis as possible in the further calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e914	Yes, exactly the points that are made here are part of Avinor's assessment. There is a good signal from the Sun Municipality and the local environment. That's why two of the options that you're looking at are just another location in the Stavanger area, or you're going to be there, but you need a larger area, and it's also based there. So I'll say to sum up: the most important thing is that the security is taken care of. That's why the dialogue with HRS is very, very important here. Nor is there any reason to believe that these are decisions that will be taken in a very short time. A time to watch this. Security should be taken care of, and I think it's natural that when this decision is taken, we have to see the health, as the representative Steffensen points out in his question. Therefore, I am not concerned about the development of this matter further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e924	‘The consequences of the cancelled exam mean that this year we will have three coals competing for the same places for further training under very different conditions. Without a change to the recording system, the principle of equal rights to education will not be recognised. A third of the allowances so that the students in each coal compete for an appropriate number of places within the individual coal, and not 'all against all', could be fair. What action will the Council of State take to uphold the principle of equal rights to education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e931	Let me thank the representative Heggø for the question. It was not an easy decision to cancel the written examination. It wasn't last year either. Depriving students not only has consequences for the individual, but, as the representative points out, it can also have consequences for former and future students. That's not easy for the government. Any changes in the recording system must be carefully considered. What may seem like a reasonable solution for some may have unparalleled consequences for others. That is why I have set up an internal working group in the Ministry of Knowledge to provide an overview and assess possible measures, such as sharing the quota, to which the representative points. I also want to invite the student organisation and Norwegian student organisation to a meeting to make recordings. In addition, Unit, responsible for the Coordination of Recordings, will look into the record in 2020. The work the department is doing, I believe, is in line with the overall education and research committee, including the Workers' Party, which has also asked me to do, i.e. to make an assessment of different measures without pre-conclusion. I can assure the representative that the government is busy turning all the stones and assessing what best ensures the fairest possible admission to higher education in the autumn of 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e942	I thank you for your answer. It is very good that a group has been set up to look at this, because I was a little worried when I heard the answer that the council gave to TV 2, where it was shown that the exam had also been cancelled before, and that it has gone quite well. But I hope the Council of State sees that there is a big difference between the cancelled exams in 2008, 2010 and 2012, which was due to strike, when people could take a year off or work. Now you can't travel, and you can't get a job, in the situation you're in now, with a pandemic. And it's the second year in a row that the exam is canceled. Can the Council of State say something more concrete about what action it is thinking of? Are there several places of study to study and will there be new places of study or a continuation of those who are?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e951	One of the answers can be several study places. In the autumn of 2020, we established 4 000 new higher education places and 1500 new post-secondary education places. These have been continued in the budget for 2021, so that there will also be 4000 more places for those applying for higher education. In addition to that, we've got a lot of ideas about many different potential solutions, and I can mention two that I'm not going to go further with. One is to zero the exam character for those who have had the exam. I think that would be very unfair for those who went on the exam, and even more importantly, some people might have got the grade 1 in one subject, so they didn't pass, but they were on the exam and thus got their diploma. And then we can't just cancel out that result. The second thing is to look at different types of algorithms, so figure out what would normally happen to exams. It may make sense in an Excel sheet, but it's very unfair for each student, and that's why I've mentioned this in interviews to break up the quota. But we have to remember that dividing into several allowances also means fewer places to compete in the different allowances, and those who are not applying within them will have fewer places to apply for. Then the average can go up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e960	Thanks for the answer. I share that view, whether that council should not go further, but what I really want to get a guarantee from the Council of State, is that the admission should not go as normal this year, and that he will look at this with regard to doing something about it being an unfair competition, as it is. I really want to get that guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e967	Since we haven't pre-concluded, because we're going to have a meeting with the Student Organisation and with Unit, who's organizing the Coordination of Recording, and with the Norwegian Student Organization, I don't think I'm going to guarantee any outcome, because it's quite obvious that in such a situation we're in now, someone will experience injustice no matter what we do. That being said, there is a reason why we have started this work, and there is a clear signal from the Storting that you want to find solutions that make it as fair as possible. That's what we're working on right now. But I can't guarantee any outcome, simply because we're not finished, and because we haven't met the students yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e983	This question has been postponed to the next question hour. That being the case, it is no. Two over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-24.ana.ud486e999	There is no record available. This way, the map is ready for processing today. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
