ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e72	An application for welfare leave is submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal on 3 and 4 June. From the first alternate of Mr. Møre and Mr. Romsdal, Mr. Tove-Lise Torve, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of Mr. Fredric Holen Bjørdal for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates for More and Romsdal, Anne Kristin Bryne, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e97	Anne Kristin Bryne is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 and 2 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e131	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given until 11 replies are received from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e138	Thank you for the cooperation on drug reform. While there has been a strong thank-you in the debate on drugs, we have had a constructive dialogue throughout the committee's proceedings. We are set to land this and determine the further political fate of the drug field. The majority of the population does not support the drug reform. This is a lost opportunity, but it is not a lost cause. The right will continue to work to realize what will become the greatest social reform of our time, a knowledge-based drug policy, and a common recognition that we will not succeed fully if we continue on the same track. Not to change course is also a choice, but we won't stop with this. Although the government’s drug reform is falling, work on it has not been wasted. We have had an important debate on the field of drugs, on society’s views on people with drug problems and on the mechanisms that drive the drug field, from both a seller and user perspective, and on society’s responses and instruments. I could choose to spend time complaining about those who believe that the threat of punishment is effective and will continue to play a role in dealing with issues relating to the use and possession of small quantities of drugs, but rather choose to note that we have different views on the effectiveness of penalties and whether it is possible to distinguish between groups of users in the law. In addition, I do not understand how to find a legal definition of ‘heavy drug addict’ suitable for legal regulation. I also wonder why the threat of punishment works better when you're young than when you're heavy. Russ reform would be a major change in Norwegian drug policy by choosing to help instead of punishing people with drug problems. This is largely about a shift in thinking and attitude towards what a drug problem is. Punishment damages and stigmatizes. Removing stigmatisation will change society’s view of addicts and make it easier to seek help. For those young people who are at risk of developing serious drug dependence, punishment stands in the way of prevention. Punishment marks an action to be blamed. Our democracy is based on respect for human freedom, human dignity and equality. When, as legislators, we give penal shelters, it must be primarily for acts that harm others, and punishment must be something a user in the last instance. A penitentiary must point to an action and be independent of who is carrying out the action. Only in cases where we believe an act is harmful to others do we have the basis to impose an intentional evil on citizens. If we take this into account, it is difficult to justify punishment for the use and possession of minor quantities of drugs, both from a legal and moral point of view, precisely because the actions primarily harm the user himself, and it is impossible to distinguish between who should be hit by such a penal barrier in the legal text, without going beyond the principle of equality. A minority in the committee solves this by asking the government to propose such a legal text, but it's just to lend ear to a close-knit legal environment – that's not possible. We've been given a new light on police methods. It has been interesting to get insights into the police's different perceptions of what are proportionate investigation methods, and the internal disagreement of the prosecution authority about the same. Of course, we take into account the Rikslawyer's clarification of this, by letter of 9 April this year at the latest. Obviously, here's the legislator's view coincides with that of the Riksadvokat. We expect police practice to be consistent and in line with this. Even if we do not adopt a Russian reform today, we will go a little further. There will be a majority to create municipal drug follow-up units. In the light of the fall of the reform, we are voting in a subsidiary way for the proposal to block information on criminal law responses to possession and use after three years. There is also a majority for a so-called good Samaritan law, which ensures that one is not prosecuted for requesting help for himself or others in a drug-induced condition. Both of these would be superfluous with the government's drug reform. The same will be true of removing prison as a criminal reaction, but we are promoting subsidiary proposals to remove this criminal code and a few other adaptations to the law in the light of it. There is no majority in favour of this, since the Workers' Party will also adopt a request decision on the same subject. We can support this subsidiaryly, but I would ask the Workers' Party to reconsider, because that saves both time and work. We have the legal text ready and promote it. This can take effect quickly. Most recently today’s morning news, we heard how prison as a punishment in drug matters hurts worse. We don't have to figure this out. It's just to vote in favour of our proposal to remove prison as a criminal reaction in such cases, we're going to get it sorted out now. The government parties vote in favour of the government's Russian reform as a whole. As it falls, we are voting in favour of the proposals to which I referred. We shall vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Labour Party. 10 and loose proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox Right and Christian People's Party votes against III. I will take up the suggestions we are making here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e161	The representative of Sveinung Stensland has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e166	Drug addicts have the right to a decent life and to the necessary health care regardless of the drugs they use. Let's emphatically establish it. The Labour Party wants a change of current anti-drug policy. Drug addicts should be met with help and treatment rather than criminal responses. Drugs must be illegal. Drug use is a social problem that brings great costs and human suffering. Drugs not only threaten the health and safety of individuals but also support organised crime in Norway and internationally. The Russ reform of the Workers' Party is based on a long-standing and strong commitment to our party. Gradually, the idea of severe penalties deterring drug use has been replaced by a perspective that addiction is best met with action and help. In 1998, we received nationwide provision for maintenance treatment with methadone, and addiction was defined as a disease at the beginning of the 2000s. The Stoltenberg Committee, set up by the red-green government in 2010, raised many of the debates that still characterise the field. The working party has provided for final legal fixing of spray rooms and a closer follow-up of pregnant women in LAR. In big cities, we have gone ahead to establish heroin smoking in our own smoking room and injecting drugs other than heroin into user rooms. We have seen to it that the outreach offer is extended to those with higher levels of drug dependence, for example. through a reinforced commitment to field nurses, and the job of multiple drugs and increased freedom of choice in the LAR. The Labour Party will maintain a ban on drugs, but proposes changes to the law that ensure decriminalisation for the use and possession of minor user doses for heavy drug addicts, so that this group meets with good health care and follow-up rather than criminal reactions. The treatment reform for drug addicts should not weaken drug prevention specifically for young people. It is necessary to strengthen drug prevention in cooperation between school health services, youth councils, local police, organisational life and the FAU at schools. Such work must be knowledge-based. We need to facilitate the early capture and meeting of young people with drug problems with help and close follow-up. In this setting, we are also in favour of legislating the responsibilities of the municipalities for a drunkenness unit in the municipalities. They shall be responsible, not for reactions, as the government originally proposed, but for social and health follow-up. We also give the police permission to use the municipal equipment for the follow-up. The municipalities themselves are free to organise this, in line with their local freedom of action. KS shall be involved in the work on professional guidelines. It should be possible to go on after getting help and after you have been wrong in life. It should not be attached to one too frequently. Therefore, we will also limit the duration of use and possession of user doses in the reaction registry to three years, and we are pleased that we get a majority for that in this position. We also have to make it safe to ask for help. The working party considers it necessary to make it clear that those who turn to health professionals for help and treatment or who call for assistance in the event of an accident should not be afraid to face punishment. We also get an impact and a broad majority in this position. Nor should the police use coercive measures in investigations into the use and possession of drugs that go beyond what is proportionate. There has been a great debate here. The State Attorney has already acted. We believe that this is important, and the principles of law must be founded. Here it's the proportionality that's revealed, which is not proportional, simply. Finally, I would like to promote the Workers' Party's loose proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox I'm a little uncertain about whether Stensland might have done it for me, but I'm now doing it again at least. That is equal to the setting, but because the setting on an incursion lacks the time of entry into force, we have to do it this way. So it's going to replace the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e187	The President expects the representative to also address the proposals of which the Labour Party is part?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e192	I will – thank you for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e197	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e202	We are dealing with an important matter today. It is important for individuals, for relatives, for families, for youth, for society, important for the future. The progress party has always been clear that we do not support the government's anti-fraud reform as it was presented. The signal effect of decriminalisation will be worrying, and general decriminalisation is very controversial among both research environments and professional environments working in practice in the field. Both the Committee on Drug Reform and the Government continue to use the phrase ‘from punishment to help’ for the proposed reform. Nevertheless, there is little in the reform that points to how the provision of prevention and services is to be built up as a result of changing the form of responses to drug use. The Progress Party will have a drug reform that strengthens treatment provision for those who suffer from addiction and are ill, and a drug reform that helps young people out of drug use with good follow-up, regardless of where they live. The government's anti-crime reform doesn't guarantee it. The proposal we are discussing today is not good enough when it comes to following up and working against youth. It is not good enough when it is going to follow up those who have landed on the slope and who want help. Prior to the treatment of the drug reform by the Storting, the Progress Party challenged the other opposition parties to support a post-crisis reform for drug addicts and better follow-up by young drug users. Several of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party seem to have a majority today, and I am pleased with that. Then we will have a drug reform that will give better follow-up to heavy drug addicts. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the Labour Party or the government parties support our proposal which would ensure that young people experimenting with drugs receive an obligatory follow-up from the municipalities. Treatment provision for heavy addicts has improved in recent years, but public failure too often when it comes back to everyday life. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes an after-care reform, in which drug addicts are to be systematically followed up after treatment and imprisonment, with follow-up and housing. Today, many addicts are sent straight back to their former drug environment without a proper follow-up from the auxiliaries after they have finished their zone or have been on detoxification. Some do not even have a housing offer waiting for them, which makes the way back to the drug setting short. We must therefore ensure today that the after-care of drug addicts is strengthened, which I am sure will help to ensure that far more people are able to stay free. The Progress Party believes that young people experimenting with drugs should receive mandatory community follow-up, regardless of where they live. Young people entering drug use must be helped not to get into a drug scene. Then it does not help with just one hour of non-committal follow-up, as the government suggests, but we must learn from the projects that have good results, such as the TIUR project in Ringswagen and Similar Practice in Trøndelag. I hope the other parties see the importance of this and, in line with the Progress Party, want an obliging follow-up of young drug users. Drug use is prohibited and should continue to be so. Drug use is a social problem that brings great costs and inhuman suffering. Drugs not only threaten the health and safety of individuals but also support organised crime in Norway and internationally. I take this up with me the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e225	The representative of Morten Stordalen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e230	Today, we were able to debate one of the most important political issues in this process, namely a reform of solidarity policy, which is combined with a prevention and treatment reform. Unfortunately, such a reform is not adopted today. It's because the government party had decided in advance to go through a reform that didn't support either the population or the Storing. Justifiably, a selection was set down, but the drug selection had a binding mandate to set out a model to implement government’s drug policy for a general decriminalisation of drugs. The selection was clearly informed that they would not know if general decriminalisation was right, but how decriminalisation could be carried out. The selection was also mandated to prepare a model that could be implemented within the current economic framework. The centre party does not support the general decriminalisation of drugs. We are concerned about the signal effect this will have, and that drug use is left untapped. In particular, we are concerned about the consequences of such a reform on drug use among young people. Drug use in Norway is low compared to other countries. We cannot support a reform where we risk an increase in the use of drugs as a consequence of general decriminalisation. We want a reform that involves a reversal of today's drug policy, where people who are addicted to drugs are met with help and treatment instead of criminal responses, but without a general decriminalisation for everyone. The Government Party believes that there is no knowledge to suggest that the abolition of criminal liability in itself leads to an increase in drug use. That claim has created a great debate. The Public Health Institute has reported that ‘one cannot exclude that drug use in the population will increase as a result of the reform’. They note that the conclusion of the drug selection that the reform will not significantly increase its use is ‘not sufficiently scientifically justified’. SERAF, i.e. the Centers for Drug and Addiction Research, also points out that bans on a general basis have demonstrated a general prevention effect. It has been suggested that there is a real risk of sanctions by breaking the ban. It is in stark contrast to what the Minister of Health said in the presentation of the reform, that it is based on the best knowledge available. The threat on which the government builds its drug reform is not only controversial in the professional community, but also among the majority of municipalities, police districts and professionals working closely on young people with drug problems, such as health professionals. Health caregivers indicate that the government’s drug reform would be taken from the tools that they see to be working well, without being replaced. The precautionary principle of public health policy argues against the launch of a liberalisation of drug policy that goes beyond any other country, when there is so much uncertainty about the consequences for children and young people. The fact that decriminalisation removes stigma associated with drug use is also uncertain. Stigma may be related to relationships other than penalties. There are currently stigmas associated with people who are addicted to alcohol, although alcohol is a legal drug. What is a big deal is that addicts have a major need for both health and social services, and that punishment is not appropriate for this group. The Government Party criticises the Central Party’s proposal that addicts should not be prosecuted for the use and possession of drugs for personal use, but this proposal is a good reason to go further. Former national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch states that Constitution does not prevent differentiated legislation and that there are several examples of different groups being exempt from criminal liability for acts that are otherwise punishable. The central party believes that a drug reform must aim to reduce drug use in society. The government's reform has no such objective. The centre party makes a proposal for a prevention and treatment reform in the drug field. The government's reform has no objective of strengthening treatment and post-protection. The government's reform doesn't get multiples today, and that's good, because there's a Russian reform that Norway doesn't need. We need a national commitment to drug prevention and better treatment and aftercare for drug addicts in health services, in municipalities, in prisons and in society. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e259	The representative Kjersti Toppe then mentioned the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e264	I am proud that SV received a large majority in 2017 on the Stortinget to shift drug use from punishment in the justice sector to healthcare assistance – a large majority, with SV, Right, Red, Left, Environmental Party of the Greens – and the Workers' Party. We have an opportunity to remove stigma — an opportunity to open up society for better health care. We do not have this opportunity since the Workers' Party has changed its policy. There are some parties that listen to those that apply, and to those that have the expertise, like Arild Knutsen or Kenneth Arctander Johansen, who have shared their knowledge of why punishment has never worked. That's what the WHO experts say. For me, the fight against punishment became personal. My friend Chris died of drugs four years ago. Penalties, fines and prisons couldn't save him. Neither can it save others. Criminal policy is unfair. There are two groups who are severely penalised: minorities and young people or adults who have little resources. We know that the use of drugs is more west of Oslo than east of Oslo. Criminal policy will be a control of poverty, not a control of poverty. The debate on the drug reform has given users a voice. The Storting heard a whisper of drug policy a few years ago. Now we hear a call for change – a call for help instead of punishment, a call for an end to illegal searches by mobile and home, and end with forced stripping or urine or blood tests. We are losing an opportunity now, but I am absolutely sure that a drug reform with decriminalisation will come, as all knowledge shows that it is the best solution. We have examples that people don't call ambulances when their loved ones take an overdose because they're afraid of the punishment they can get. SV has suggested not to punish those who are trying to help others or themselves. It was only the Greens and Reds that supported it. I'm proud that SV gets the majority so that those who call for emergency situations will not be punished. It will be easier to use healthcare when they are not afraid to apply for help. The Labour Party and the Center Party propose a drug reform for only ‘heavy’ drug users. SV does not accept that these parties will push any people under the bus because they are not heavy enough for them. In their proposal, you get punishment if you use e.g. one heroin syringe, but if you take two, you will not be punished. The Russreform has great support on the left, with SV, Red, the Environmental Party De Green – and a large minority in the Workers' Party. I have to end by saying thank you to Bent Höie. He has changed his personal view and got the whole Right to help, not punish, drug users. Høie and the government have promoted a knowledge-based drug reform. Thank you for everything Höie has done to promote a modern drug policy, and for giving users a voice in politics. I'm promoting all the proposals SV are on. SV votes secondary for proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party, in Innst. 612 L for 2020-2021 and to resolve the proposal of the Workers' Party. We support Mrs Red's loose proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e289	The representative Nicholas Wilkinson has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e294	This was the day when we were going to put two lines under one of the most important social policy reforms in many decades. This was the day when we were to bring new hopes to thousands in this country who are struggling with drug problems, to their relatives and their friends. This was the day when we were going to look over to a new page in the turnbook on Norwegian history, to begin setting free a large stigmatized group of patients – people living unworthy lives, under poor housing conditions, often with poor hygiene. They carry a cross because they have been punished for their addiction diagnosis over much of their lives instead of being given appropriate treatment. This was the day when, with the user organisations on the team, we were going to start a tailor-made treatment device of a completely new dimension, while at the same time we were going to stop the new recruitment to this destructive environment. It didn't work that way. And why? Well, because some people are still stuck in the prejudices that have shaped Norwegian drug policy since a bid was issued by the American administration in the 1960s and 1970s to make us slaves of the world's drug lords. We were so close. In 2016, the Labour Party’s leadership stood ahead in the newspapers and wished the Right ‘welcome after’ when Bent Höie announced a complete turnaround in his party’s Russian policy: Höie opens doors, according to Vice President Hadia Tajik. Now the Workers' Party has melted again the door they were talking about, not just in the nose of the Minister of Health, but in an entire generation of Norwegian youth. For this, there was once a reform of the future – carried to the back of the UN and WHO, the Norwegian civil society and organisations such as the Church's Bymition, the Salvation Army and the Change Factory. In all the most important welfare reforms in the last century, the left has been side by side with the Workers' Party, from child law to legislation related to serious working life. These are many examples of which the representative Kjerkol mentions. After the shift in line — and the split in the Labour Party at the last national meeting — we separate layers of social policy. We go each way. The fact that the Workers' Party is no longer to be trusted in the defence of «those sitting at the bottom of the table», as the jargon goes, will stand there as a symbol of the party's history for a long time to come. There should be something for the voters to think about in the harvest, because with the combination of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, it may take a long time for us to get back to grips with the drug reform investigation – this groundbreaking legal thesis that has aroused great recognition. It's not a time we have, because while the Workers' Party is struggling with the disagreement in its own party, the annual overdose statistics are yelling at us and reminds us that we get the politicians we deserve. What we're left with after voting today is no reform. Reform is gone, removed, scraped, destroyed, waited. The rest of it is a limed grave over Norwegian Russian politics. But something new is born. The alliance of parties on the left and right sides of Norwegian policy, supported by numerous organisations working in the field of drugs, together with the Academy, represents the heaviest professional environment we have in this field, and will not surrender until the reform is adopted. As Arild Knutsen of the Association for Human Drugs Policy said yesterday during the marking in front of the Storting: We have reached the point of no return. We're talking about an alliance that looks across conscious misinformation, misunderstandings and denial of fact from backward political parties or lobby organisations that have the common ground that they rely on out-of-date thoughts from the U.S. Nixon administration. There is an alliance with a broad international network in its back, which will not turn out until the decriminalisation reform has become as obvious as electric cars or Fridaystaco. It is difficult to describe social liberalism, the ideological foundation of my party, without mentioning the word destigmatization. Removing the nail marks of prejudice stands for me as one of the most honorable things that politicians can contribute to. But retiring is not just about liberating and liberating them. Learning to live with dissatisfaction intimately – to tolerate the deviations from what is perceived as normal – is also enriching and liberating for each of us. Within the drug field, destigmatisation is entirely dependent on decriminalisation, i.e. a fundamental legislative change. Without doing that, we can get completely wrong out of the jumping edge. This has been widely known by previous support groups, and I will come back to that in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e315	The Christian People's Party's primary position in this matter is widely known. Through the agreement of the Granavolden platform, we agreed that government parties should propose a drug reform that changed the responses of society to the use and possession of illicit drugs by transferring responsibility from the justice sector to the health sector. We support a health reform for drug addicts, and I will highlight the importance of good treatment provision, help and follow-up for those who need it. The Grana violence consensus does not coincide with our primary view of drug policy, but on the basis of the consensus, we will nevertheless vote in favour of the proposal for decriminalisation today. This government and its cooperation party have been committed to care and prevention and early intervention every year. The bet is not finished. The children’s and young people’s mental health follow-up plan facilitates the strengthening and further development of follow-up and treatment provision for young people with drug problems. General prevention work is also important. Through the escalation plan for the drug field, annual work in municipal mental health and drug work has increased, and appropriations have exceeded the target for the escalation plan. Both experience and reports show that there are often patients in this group who go between two chairs and become caste balls between the community health service and the specialist health service. Through the 19 health communities established by the government and the KS, the aim is to create better common understanding and interaction. Noise and mental health are among the four priority groups for these health communities. I have faith that this will lead to good cooperation and good solutions in the future. Through the escalation plan for the drug field, the municipalities have been allocated funds. I hope that the municipalities give priority to the drugs field, so that the offer for those who need it is strengthened. I am pleased that the government has systematically built up capacity in drug treatment these years. The waiting time has almost halved since 2013, and the capacity of the TSB, multi-disciplinary specialised drug treatment, has been strengthened, for example. through cooperation with non-profit actors. From this year onwards, regional mental health protection functions and multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment for prisoners, which will involve the presence of specialist health services in all prisons at fixed times, in both of these areas, shall be established. Much good has been done in both prevention and treatment in the care of drug users, but much important work remains to be done. I am pleased that an overall increase is seeking a better health provision for drug addicts and that the assistance each needs must be available. All those in need of this offer are different, and it is therefore important that the diversity of actors in the care of drug users facilitates the adaptation of each individual offer and its situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e328	Red believes that the time to hunt, punish and stigmatize people for drug use and addiction should be over. Punishment doesn't work, but it hurts and pushes people out of the community. Decriminalisation is recommended by the various UN agencies, by the WHO, by the user associations and also by the Psychological Association. There is every reason to be concerned about the harm potential of drugs for human lives, but decriminalisation is not legalisation. And there is no research evidence to claim that decriminalisation increases the use of drugs. What we know is that every year about 260 people in our country die of overdose, and that happens with today's drug policy, with punishment for use and too little help and prevention. In 1984, the Storting decided to increase the maximum penalty for drug law offences to 21 years in prison, the same level as for killings and national fraud. Between 1986 and 2001, the use of penalties and coercive measures against drug users has doubled. Norwegian politicians imported uncritically the so-called US war on drugs, which was in reality a war against drug users, minorities and poor people. The number of annual deaths related to drug use in Norway almost doubled, from 45 to over 400 in 2001. Today, Red has a proposal to have a broad and thorough review of the consequences of the use of sanctions and coercive measures from 1984 to now, in order to get facts on the table about the consequences of this policy. Today, there is also a difference between the legal certainty of those who have money and networks and those who do not. It is very rare for white-collar offenders who use drugs in closed companies to be caught. It is very rare that the police train their drug dogs at Oslo Børs or at Tjuvholmen. The presence and attention of the police are not directed at these people. But as you look, you get an obvious answer, because the research shows that you are a youth who has parents who have less than four years of higher education, and if you also live in a low-income area, you have seven times the risk of punishment than young people who have parents who have longer education and who live in richer areas. So today's drug laws hit those who are vulnerable, severely healthy, but also criminal. We believe that the proposal to let heavily addicted people escape punishment would mean treating people who commit the same crime differently, which would conflict with the Basic Law principle of equality for the law. We think it is wrong to distinguish between drug users: needy and not needy. I'm not sure how it's going to be done in practice, and what it's going to mean for the lives of individuals to get such a type of registration that this will lead to. We know that the drug reform has support in the population, among users and among professionals in the drug field. It's a shame we can't adopt this one here in the hall today, but we'll vote for all the improvements and steps that take us in the right direction. The main means of preventing drug dependence lie far beyond both prisons and police responsibilities. We have to work for small social differences, good public health, work and education for everyone and also secure and work for people to develop and get secure and long-term relationships. I don't think we want to be helped by someone who at the same time threatens us with punishment, which is part of today's policy. So prevention is about facilitating belonging to society and for good choices that should be easily accessible to everyone. Then we have to stop thinking about punishment and jobs in order to strengthen well-being, local economy and, above all, leisure activities for young people and pursue policies that give young people confidence in the future no matter what background they have, the situation in the family and the economy they live with. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e347	The representative Bears Moxnes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e352	This is a historic day. The size should address a paradigm shift in Norwegian and international drug policies. Today, the size of the population can end 50 years of criminal law approach to a societal challenge that would be consistently met with health and welfare policy instruments. For half a century, society has deliberately attributed stigma to its fellow human beings and systematically excluded them from the community for drug use. Today, we will meet people with life challenges with adapted help, treatment and follow-up – without increasing guilt, shame and extravagance. In line with the previous view of the majority of the population, the government proposes to transfer society’s responsibility for responses to drug use and possession for its own use from the justice sector to healthcare. The proposal is based on the thorough review of available research literature by the Committee on Drug Reform and international recommendations and experience. The committee found no link between changes in criminal regulation and use of drugs, and consequently no increased use of drugs as a result of the abolition of criminal liability. Research has not been presented, as many seem to believe, that contradicts the conclusions drawn by the sample on the basis of the research review. The selection took the principal positions to which the government has joined. In a criminal law perspective, punishment is not a legitimate response to drug use and possession because punishment does not have a proven general or individual preventive effect on use. At the same time, it is unmistakable that punishment has major adverse effects and affects socially skeptical. Furthermore, there is reason to believe that the objective — to reduce the use of drugs in society — can be achieved with more modest instruments. In health law, the imposition of penalties is contrary to fundamental principles and professional considerations, and there is no professional basis for the application of more coercive measures. As a rule of law, we base the principle of non-discrimination on criminal law, a principle also enshrined in the Constitution. Therefore, the reform must cover all user and age groups. From a prevention point of view, it is also important that healthcare comes into contact with all types of users, including those who do not currently have a drug problem. As a legislator, the Storting should look at principles of criminalisation as assessed by the Penal Commission and the actual knowledge base. The size of the population should not maintain criminal liability for the use and possession of drugs because society disapproves of this, or for fear that someone will believe that drugs are no longer dangerous. We cannot use society’s strongest instrument to condemn our fellow people for fear of something happening, especially because this ‘something’ has not occurred in countries that have de- or decriminalised drug use. Today, the size of the population will take up two further proposals: a proposal not to penalise addicts and a proposal for a prevention and treatment reform. I categorically reject the first. In addition to the technical and practical issues raised by the proposal, the principle of non-discrimination is fundamental. The second proposal is also not a reform proposal, but a collection of proposals to strengthen different parts of the drug field. This is already government policy and an ongoing priority task for all of us. Decisions of the Inst. 578 S for 2020-2021 appears at best to be unnecessary. The proposals and settings are not an improvement on the government's drug reform, but a training. We could agree on a reform that ensures both prevention, treatment and follow-up within the framework of the government's proposals, as we also pointed out in the bill. The Government Parties shall stand behind the Inn. 612 L for 2020–2021 on the non-criminalisation of callers for emergency situations for their own use of drugs and proposals for a time limit for data blocking, but this is only a small step on the way. The battle for the Russian reform is being lost in the Storting today, but the war is going to be won, for this is tomorrow’s drug policy – based on knowledge, which is humane, effective and not least decent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e377	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e382	On 2 May, prior to the Højres national meeting, Prime Minister Erna Solberg stated in the Dagbladet that drug users have been the lowest priority. It's a strong statement from a prime minister who's been in power for eight years. The right to decriminalise all use and possession does not have a majority, and the Prime Minister instead launches a treatment reform. What is new is the reform of LAR treatment and a bullet point on faster help for young people who are struggling with alcohol – proposals that the government parties have voted down in several rounds while Erna Solberg has been Prime Minister. The working party will have better health care for drug addicts, a treatment reform. The Minister for Health ordered an investigation without strengthening the treatment offer. What does the Council of State think today when he laments saying that the battle is lost, but that the war will be won? What does the Council of State think about a treatment reform for drug addicts, and would he do something different to get a broadly anchored drug reform and get it through in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e389	First of all, the Prime Minister's proposal was not rather a Russian reform. The point one of the proposals put forward by the Prime Minister at the Højres national meeting was to implement a drug reform. There was also a key point in the Prime Minister's introduction to the national meeting. The country meeting unanimously agreed that there was also a Right’s policy for the next period, and the Prime Minister also raised it in his closing speech to the Right’s National Assembly as one of the most important issues of the Right’s for the next enlargement period. If we're going to move on in this case and get a drug reform done, there's two things that are needed to get it done quickly. One is that today’s government continues after the election, and the other is that in two years’ time the National Assembly of the Workers’ Party will take a different position. I hope both of these things happen. When it comes to strengthening the treatment offer, both I and the government parties were prepared to negotiate anything with the Workers' Party if they had been willing to participate in a drug reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e399	Judicial drug reform would mean going from punishment to treatment, but the reform does not provide any strengthening of treatment. Now the Council of State says quite unobligatoryly that it would have been negotiated. The main interventions for drug addicts in Norway have been helpful for a long time, not punishment. One problem is that many people can't stop with drugs because they also have other problems, other problems. This is a main problem of treatment, and the reform would hardly have had an impact on it. It writes several hearings from the processing side. Punishment does not help addicts – we are in complete agreement. However, in the debate it is often extended to a claim that treatment under coercion does not help. It's a myth. Many research suggests that treatment under proper coercive use can help. Should not a drug reform also refer to drug treatment and the use of coercive measures within this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e406	Firstly, treatment provision for drug addicts has been strengthened every year during this government — both the specialised treatment provision and the follow-up offer in the municipalities — among others. in the event of a sharp decline in the number of homeless people, a sharp increase in the number of job creations, inclusion in working life, which is one of the main challenges. We are willing to – and will – continue the fight to improve treatment provision. The challenge is that punishment is a barrier to reaching out with help. It is an obstacle to the young person who for the first time has tried an illegal drug and who does not dare to talk about the problem of a safe adult, and it is an obstacle to the person who has developed a drug addiction and who experiences the punishment as a stumbling block on the way back to mastering his own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e413	In the proposition submitted to Stortinget, the Ministry writes: ‘The Ministry’s proposal does not imply the creation of new forms of services, either in the municipality or in the specialist health service.’ Furthermore, no new rights are proposed to people with drug problems or drug abuse who do not comply with existing legislation and who do not need any additional funding at that time. It is strange that so many members of the government party are talking about an increase in treatment now, while the government in the proposition refuses that this should involve any kind of better treatment, and in particular it should not cost more money. So my question to the Council of State is how he can present a reform that has completely eliminated the need for increased treatment for addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e427	That's not right either. Firstly, it becomes clear that what fortunately gets the majority today, to set up units for drug addicts in the municipalities, is going to cost money, and the government has said that we are going to follow up in the budgets. Moreover, it is not that adopting this reform itself would require a strengthening of treatment provision here and now, but I am absolutely convinced that the strengthening of the treatment and follow-up services needed to be provided had the need to increase further as a result of this reform, precisely because this reform would have contributed to the achievement of more and we could help more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e434	It is strange to hear what the Council of State says here, and what he himself writes about the reform in the proposition. It says: ‘The Ministry does not expect an increase in the number of persons entitled to the necessary health and care services from the municipality to an extent that requires significant financial strengthening of the local government sector.’ The Government Party notes that ‘the Russian reform is not intended to be a treatment reform’. The reform stands out as a purely decriminalisation reform. It has been clear to the councils, but I think it is especially when so many young people don't get enough drug treatment, especially those with cohabitation and mental disorders. When many addicts do not receive adequate treatment today, does the Council of State think that there is no need for additional treatment, as it says in his own proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e444	As the representative knows, I believe there is a need for both more help and more follow-up. The representative has been with and treated all the seven state budgets that I have presented as a health minister, and each of the seven state budgets has included improvements in treatment provision for drug addicts. So the representative knows very well that I believe it has been necessary, and that it is necessary further. But the representative cannot use this as an excuse when she contributes to voting down one of the most important social reforms of our time, which would have contributed to more people getting the help that one offers today. That is what is at the heart of the representative's line. An attempt to excuse itself for agreeing to an important social reform, pointing to challenges in today’s treatment provision. Yes, there are challenges in today’s treatment provision, and it is absolutely necessary that we work to improve it, but there is no excuse to vote against the decriminalisation of drug use and possession.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e451	In this case, I have thought back several times when I was on vacation in Colombia and was in the ruins of Escobar's holiday palace. Why wasn't it turned into a cool hotel? I was told that there would not be raised monuments over him, for he was no hero. An amazing country is destroyed by extensive organized drug crime. Is it true that if someone just wants to go to a stripe at a party, you won't under any circumstances have any criminal liability for what kind of crime you contribute to in Norway or abroad? The government also believes that drugs should continue to be illegal, and that necessarily large parts of them must have their roots in such destructive criminal networks. The government's drug reform should have given some space to the question: Where is our solidarity with those who live and die in countries where the drug cartels are almost free? Why does the Minister of Health think it is unproblematic to exempt healthy people, who indirectly support serious organised criminal activity, from any criminal liability?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e460	This is because criminal liability does not work, either to reduce use or to help people who need help. So the whole premise of the representative of Mørland's line had to be that one still believes that punishing for the use and possession of drugs is important for the use. It is well refuted through international research and through the work of the sample. Then I fully agree that we should also work internationally to help reduce the major negative effects of drug crime on those affected by it. But once again, this cannot be used as an excuse to vote against this social reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e467	I think the Council of State takes the question lightly and is probably bombastic in that criminal liability does not work. It may well be that I have not attended, but I have not heard the Council of State take up a similar position, for example. for those who have purchased small doses of smuggler liquor, homeburning or using doping drugs without being part of the help of competitions. It is also the case that alcoholism can be dependent and defined as a disease, but there is still a criminal liability. Isn't that a paradox to the reasoning that the Minister of Health is now leaving?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e474	No, definitely not. Drug trafficking will be as criminal after this reform as before. The most obvious parallel is that people who are not allowed to buy alcohol in Norway are not penalised if they use alcohol. However, no youth in Norway perceives that it is okay to drink alcohol when they are under 18 years of age, even if they are not punished. So if you're going to draw a parallel to the alcohol policy, the Workers' Party's representative should think through that paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e479	Now the Minister of Health made a premise that's not right. I'm not talking about those who smuggle alcohol or produce homeburn, I'm talking about those who buy small doses because they might have alcoholism and can't afford to go on the pole and buy the liquor there. I have never heard the Council of State say that criminal liability is not working here; we must therefore have a reform that relieves them. Apart from those who produce themselves and make money on it, isn't there a lack of consistency here in what the Council of State argues for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e487	I'm perfectly open to see if there's any criminal liability related to the use of alcohol that prevents us from helping alcohol addicts today. I'm absolutely open to looking at it. But there is no excuse not to carry out this reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e492	SV believes that we should have a principle to avoid damage. We know that the analysis of illicit drugs can lead to less use by users and better control of the drugs we have. A study from the United Kingdom shows that two thirds of those participating in festival drug testing chose to discard the drug when the analysis showed that it contained substances other than those expected. SV suggests analysing drugs in order for people to use less of it, and also in order not to have more overdose deaths. Why won't the government parties support a drug analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e499	This is part of the government’s action plan on overdose deaths. There's two points where the answer to this SV is taking up. One is that we want a national monitoring system in order to be able to alert drug settings if batches have entered that have even more harmful substances in them. However, there is also a task here for the Health Directorate to assess what the representative is addressing, to develop test kits for drugs that can be used to detect that kind of condition. So that's something we're positive to and we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e504	Now I was very happy. That's great. I have another question. We know that we do not get a majority for a drug reform supported by SV, but the government proposal was for example. that young people and children should meet with their parents on a compulsory basis at the first meeting. I have talked to several of these young people who have been using drugs and trying to stop, and they say it could be awful to have their parents in the meeting. For many of these young people, the problem is their parents and what they have been through with them. Therefore, SV has proposed that the first meeting should be with only the youth or the child and that adults should attend the second meeting. I know we don't get a majority, but I hope and believe that we get through a drug reform. What does the government and the Council of State think about the proposal that children and young people should have their first meeting alone in order to be able to talk openly to health professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e513	I think our starting point is that the meeting should be with the parents unless there are good reasons for anything else. Then it is that this is a reform that we should have undertaken, which, of course, also had to have an evaluation that followed. This could be a central question in such an evaluation of what works best. I fully agree with the representative that, in some cases, for example. are the abuse of the children by parents or that they do not provide care for their children, which may be the reason why children start experimenting with drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e520	I just want to follow up on the theme in my last line, that the government brings about a drug reform that does not deal with either prevention or treatment, saying that it is carried out in the plans that have already been put forward, and does not seem to be concerned with this at all. Right now, at 0 p.m. 11, the National Audit Office has published a report on how young people with mental health problems and drug problems are currently being cared for in the health services, and there is serious criticism of today’s supply. The report states that: ‘Many outpatients in mental health protection do not have the necessary framework conditions to provide treatment for those treated for the benefit of young people suffering from concomitant mental and drug problems.’ Now the Council of State can only dismiss this question and say that it is now about decriminalisation, but I have to ask the Minister of Health if he does not see that there is a great weakness in the reform that treatment does not come from the government when we see the challenges that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e532	No, there is no weakness in this reform, but that does not mean that I believe that today's treatment provision is good enough. It's not like I had worked to strengthen treatment provision in the field of drugs and mental health for all the seven years I've been a health minister, if I thought the offer was good enough. It's not like my party had gone to the elections this fall just to strengthen the mental health offer and the offer to addicts as a main thing if the party had thought that today's offer, even after we've been responsible for it for eight years, is good enough. That is because we believe that there is a need for improvement. This law to be taken into consideration by the Stortinget today is about a drug reform that would help more people, that the threshold for seeking help had been reduced, and not least it had helped to combat the stigmatisation experienced by people with drug addiction and by people using illegal drugs in Norway today. That is what is happening today. Then I discuss improvements in both mental health and drug use at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e539	I'm not going to make it a habit to ask questions to the Council of State, but now the opposition had not used up its line round. The last few months' vocabulary has tragically not been without humor, voluntary or involuntary, such as: that the Labour Party, in debate after debate, has almost accused the Left of leading the Right on the Wild Roads of the Russian Policy. Let's say, for fun, that's right, and as a result, it has to be deduced that we've managed to infect 35 pst. by the Right-Leadership. I thank you in this way for your trust and have been illustrated in this way that the Left has made a formidable effort in terms of the drug reform. The question to the Council of State is, can this still be a true description of reality? Is it so that the Right is infected by the Left, or how deeply anchored is this drug reform in Norway's conservative party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e548	I'm the first one to acknowledge that the Left took this position before the Right and has worked for this for very many years. But the right has taken a stand for itself in this matter. We did so at our national meeting in 2017, before the elections. That is, we told our voters that this was a reform we went to elections to implement. That is why this was a common issue for the Left and Right in the first government negotiations we had at Jeloea after the 2017 elections. But there's no one to take from the left that left took this position before the right. On the right, this position was taken at our national meeting, which adopted the programme for this magnification period, and adopted this point by a very, very overwhelming majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e553	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e560	Today, we are dealing with one of the most important issues for the Health and Welfare Committee during this period: the drug reform. Unfortunately, there will be a day with some lost opportunities because it has not been possible to bring together a majority on important changes in Norwegian drug policy. I want to start with my personal position on the matter. The current party programme of the Labour Party was a long way towards decriminalising all those with a drug addiction and that criminal law responses would only be used in extreme consequence to those who could obviously be said not to have a drug problem. It is a line I support, and therefore I do not support my national meeting’s new decision on the drug reform – nor does it define decriminalisation to only ‘heavy’ addicts. 'Cause when are you heavy enough? And what really happened to early efforts? However, the main responsibility for the follow-up to the drug reform lies with the government. It is with the government that has ruled the country since 2013, where it is the Progress Party – and not the Workers' Party, which is now perceived in this debate – that is actually the supporting party here in the Stortinget. The Labour Party has always been clear that we need a drug reform that is not just about decriminalising, but about how we provide better help to those who are struggling, while at the same time preventing the threshold from trying illegal drugs. However, the government has presented a proposal for a drug reform where decriminalisation appears to be the whole answer. Taking the Workers' Party's support for such a proposal for granted is to bill without a host, for the Workers' Party has never adopted a full decriminalisation for all users in any case. In particular, the government's proposals become demanding when they do not, at the same time, strengthen prevention and follow-up and treatment provision. On the contrary, during this period they have voted against many of the Labour Party's proposals, for example: on a parallel treatment reform and on strengthening the after-care of drug addicts through integrated after-care. I am pleased that today we seem to have a majority in favour of no-one being punished for their own use when calling for help in emergency situations, so that use in young people will no longer be linked to one on the flyer forever, and that the responses people face to problem drug use must be proportionate, for example. do not punish people who have never driven in the drunk state, with the loss of their driving licence. This is an important breakthrough for the Workers' Party. However, in such a difficult case as this, there should be room for more reflection and dialogue and less use of dissatisfaction. Unfortunately, I think that's some reason why today we are missing out on opportunities to do something more for those who labor the hardest in our society. Of course, all of us in this Chamber have a responsibility for that, but the main responsibility for the government's proposals for drug reform must of course be precisely that of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e576	Since 1960, punishment has been the response of society to drugs, and it has been considerably increased over the years, both in Norway and internationally. But what's the result? The use of illicit drugs has increased, and in Norway we have had high overdose rates. The war on drugs has not given us the results we might have hoped for. Instead, it has led to much suffering and has had great consequences for people with a drug addiction. That's the actual situation. Time is ripe to think about drug policy. Then I believe that a good place to start is to look at what the situation actually is, after many years of current policy, and then we need to find good and knowledge-based solutions for future drug policies. Punishment is a means, not a goal in itself. Therefore, it shall be used when it has the desired effect. There is a clear and broad consensus in international research communities that punishing and possession of drugs for personal use does not have the effect of current drug policies. We shouldn't use punishment as an instrument because it feels uncomfortable not to punish behavior we don't like. As long as we do not have evidence that punishment has an effect on the use of drugs, it is those who are victims of punishment as an instrument who have the burden of proof. I think most people see the point that it is pointless to punish heavily addicted people, but there are several people who think it is hard to imagine that young people who are trying an illegal drug for the first time are not to be punished. To punish someone based on who they are, and not on action, I believe is legally unsustainable. I also believe that there is a good reason in itself not to punish young people. The same arguments about why punishment does not work also apply to young people. And then we know that those who are mainly hit by punishment are those who have a more demanding starting point. I often hear the argument that young people are preparing for a full party now that drugs are legalized. I think the young people are smarter than that, and I don't think the consequences that punishment brings will contribute positively to them either. They also need help over punishment. The drug reform we are discussing today could be the most important social policy reform of our time. I am sincerely disappointed that the Workers' Party does not agree with us today. But we're not giving up. This was the first round, and then we get rusted for the second round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e591	On April 10, 1915, six laws were amended in this hall, six laws that led to social cohesion without a shift of money, six laws that changed the stigma and moral condemnation, and that led to more justice and less social inequality. It was the Castberg children's laws, the laws that many here in the hall condemned and thought were going to lead to moral corruption because all the maids now came to run after the man in the house to make sure to have children with him to gain access to the inheritance, namely the children's right to inherit their father anyway. They led to the opposite. They led to justice, they led to social cohesion and lack of stigmatisation, and they led to the men of the house leaving behind the maids. I think a lot of times about the time people went into town here and allowed themselves to almost write about people who were out on the street. How did they explain inside themselves that it was morally right to do so? What was moral then was sin. The one written over, was marked by sin; therefore it was morally right to just write over the outcasts. What is the sin of our time? Our time's sin is the rush. It's the rush that makes it right to just write over the outcasts on the street, because it's their own fault, and it's the moral rejection of our time. There are still people out here standing on the pulpit and saying that drug addiction is a disease. What other disease are we trying to stop with punishment? Are there other diseases we can ban if we don't like them? Or are there other ways we can meet moral guardians – just as we fought them down when we fought for the Castberg Children's Laws? They got into a completely different moral concept, a moral concept that was socially equalizing and fair, and that increased the morale of a society, you ask me. This might be my last post on the pulpit. I would say that the Left has always been in front of reforms. We're going to do that, whether it's about women's voting rights, school reform, the Castberg kids' laws, drug reform or eight-hour day. And then the parties have to learn to cooperate. I am very sorry today that the Progress Party went out of government. Had the Advance Party been in government, this reform would have been in the box. It would have helped thousands of people. Cooperation should be valued much more in this room than it has been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e602	I would like to start by thanking the case-speaker, Mr. Stensland, and the chairman of the committee, Mr. Becquerad, for the good and respectable contributions. I think the debate in the Chamber today has actually shown that. We all know that there is a demanding debate to stand in, with very many strong opinions, so it was good to observe. We had a common hearing in the Justice Committee and the Health Committee. She was useful and good. It became clear that at least none of the people who were asked questions about it, who thought that the proposal from the government today would affect the number of overdoses. We asked FHI and more questions about one with the government's proposal could ignore the fact that the use of drugs in society would increase. It couldn't be done. The Labour Party wants a prevention and treatment reform, and I think there is a great risk of doing that government and especially the Left struggles for it. I also found the debate to be a bit one-sided when it comes to the role of the police. Now I'm a lawyer and I'm obliged to say something about it, but I would like to remind you that there's a lot of good police work done in Norway, a lot of good prevention work, a lot of good dialogue and cooperation with young people, municipalities and health services. We know a good example where drug contracts and youth follow-up have worked very, very well, even with the young people's own voice. So we also know the opposite. For this reason, I am pleased that we are getting a majority in favour of the proposal that we follow up and evaluate youth follow-up and youth contracts. It is not possible that a person is experiencing class-justice with some places. Nor is it good that there is too much difference between police districts in Norway. The responsibility for that is the government that has. We don't get any today, nor about the solution to the differentiation. I think it's worth listening to not only Tor-Aksel Busch, but also previous Supreme Court rulings Georg Rieber-Mohn, who clearly rejects the fact that a solution where one could provide health care rather than punishment for addicts would be contrary to the principle of equality in the Constitution. But in this case, it is well that everyone listens to those who give some kind of confirmation of the political vision you have, but at least it is not impossible to get a solution today where we could and should be some about giving those who are addicts, who have a fight, health care rather than punishment. Then it's not useful to come to Stortinget with just promise changes. It will require far, far more, such as The working party has proposed, within the framework of prevention and treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e613	You're a typical coward politician, a spineless liar. He's a man on his way up and up. First make the pomps in the Ap satisfied, and then climb the career path over some corpses in the Brugata, a fictitious but effective shortcut. No one should be in doubt about his total lack of integrity. – You look like clowns with bigger noses for every day that goes. – The untruthful and immeasurable answers from Toppe in this matter confirm the impression that she is unfit to become a health minister. I have never received as many stifled messages as in the matter of drug reform. And as the last statement shows, there are several people who have received such messages. As a politician, you have to endure a lot, but you don't have to endure everything. The more we expect politicians to bear the heat, the sheer and the ridiculous, the more unbearable politicians we're going to get – that's my claim. Over the past six months, I've met a lot of people with a lot of commitment to the drug reform. They have had different solutions and answers. Regardless of whether I have agreed or disagreed with them, I do not come up with a single one that I have doubted has had good intentions. However, this debate has been lacking in generosity, with a few honourable exceptions. The head of the Human Drug Policy Association, Arild Knutsen, made a settlement with the heat and shame campaigns in the class struggle. I've missed the Minister of Health doing the same thing. Honor be the minister that he has taken the user voices seriously, but there are some of the same voices that he has used politically, who have helped to make the room for others' opinions less in this matter. One thing is that I've left off taking things up because I don't have the strength. But when relatives to addicts send me messages that they are unable to express their opinions – because the debate is like that, not many people are able to say it loud and public – then the debate on the drug reform has really become poorer. The health-policy spokesman of the left was anxious about the national meeting of my party: Ap has today voted on whether the earth is flat or round, the flat side won by 184 against 101. I don't think the debate gets any better, even though I wasn't one of those 184. Let's be honest: deep into the government there have been doubts about the matter. The Christian People's Party has demonstrated against its own Russian reform in the VG. Right Tetzschner has called the reform a major social policy experiment, to which he says no. The representative of Benestad spoke about his doubts in the article ‘The difficult drug reform’ in his fatherland friend. The experience of adding motives you don't have, just because you haven't supported the government's proposal in this matter with skin and hair, makes me sad. I also fear that it will help that it will take longer before you can take the matter up again. It's a shame, because in fact, we're many in this room today who want addicts to meet with help, not punishment. But it doesn't seem to be adopted either, because the debate has overshadowed the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e628	My sister Janka shot a lot of heroin. One day she put the last shot. That was the last thing she did. With her first squirt with heroin, her fight for life and my fight for her life began. The fight for addicts has followed me and will follow me all my life, but to stand here in this hall and know with certainty and scrupulously point to right and wrong, who cares, and who doesn't care, who listens, and who doesn't, I won't. The debate deserves a respectful and objective form. Our society's betrayal of sick addicts is not about whether a user dose is decriminalised or not. It is about the Community’s failure to prevent and follow up people at risk of becoming or being seriously ill as a consequence of drug use. As a community, we bear part of the responsibility for people who are in deep-seated life crises in the use of drugs. In the footsteps of heavy addicts, there are difficult crops and heavy lives. We as a community were supposed to be there when she and he were five years old, when they were eight, when they started their youth at high school, and when they finished it, probably on their way into an abuse. Too many, too many, have experienced that the community has failed. Then we have to take our responsibility and ensure people the opportunity to live a good life. It's about so much, much more than a user dose, while we know that too many people come to the last user dose not as the beginning of something new and nice, but as the end of absolutely everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e639	The dream of a non-drug society cannot be more important than saving lives. It's hard to get away from the fact that the country we live in, with its few inhabitants, has had a rather large and visible drug environment. Overdose rates have been high compared with other countries. There are few young people in Norway who use drugs compared to other countries, but of the few who use them, a rather large proportion of them will die a few years in advance. Why in the world is it like this? Why is it more dangerous to experiment with drugs here than in Portugal, where the number of overdose deaths is lower than the average in Europe and much lower than in Norway, despite the fact that there is a higher proportion of the population who use drugs there? We're used to thinking that consumption increases with availability, and that therefore it's a goal to have the lowest possible availability. But maybe this is the wrong focus. Instead of focusing on the number of people who try a drug once, we might want to focus on those who develop addiction and the reasons why this addiction arises. Being met with punishment instead of help may be one reason why the use becomes problematic. The proposed drug reform involves decriminalising use and possession. In other words, if you experiment with drugs and let go of your brain, you've gotten away completely. You can go on in life – with SV's suggestions even without dots on the scroll. This is probably a little provocative for some of us. But think of a society where those who are at the bottom of the ladder, in the gutter, are lifted up and integrated as full members of society, fellow human beings in line with you and me, with the same rights and the same demands to be met with respect and dignity. Think about it. Dear opponents of the drug reform, it is allowed to want a society free of drugs, but after many years of misguided drug policy it is time to think again. If fewer people die from overdose, maybe we can live with a few more people trying a drug once. The dream of a non-drug society can never be more important than saving lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e656	Let me start by saying that I think it borders on the inconvenientness of the Workers' Party to make itself into some sort of persecuted or perhaps victim in this matter, that place is the other one that takes before them. The health figures for the Labour Party and the Centre Party were present in Lisbon when I asked the Director of SICAD, the Portuguese Directorate for Drugs, about the main impact of the country’s reform programme, which started some 20 years ago. He did not respond by referring to the large decrease in overdose deaths, from 600 to 700 to less than 50, he said: it's restigmatisation. Of course, it's easy to roll over that some people think it's a little crazy to remove the stigma by separating groups of people from each other, as the Workers' Party and the Centre do in this case. But I remember a talk by Karen-Christine Friele, Secretary General of the Norwegian Homo Association of 1948, held in the Blind in the mid-1970s. She said, "Sometimes I want all the gays to wake up in the morning and be green in the face." That would get people's eyes up for how many we are. The point here is that if you're going to do something about destigmatization, you have to start with a reality description, a reality check. We have to understand what we're talking about. Norway does not have a small drug problem, as someone wants it to be. It's big, it's growing, and it's made up of everything from pill-using high-class people behind closed villa doors on the west edge to odorous portraits on the east edge. Recruitment to this environment ranges from 'Exit' environments and experimental youth from resource-intensive families to deeply traumatised victims. The environment does not grow because politicians talk about drugs or normalize the problem, as some claim, cannabis use grew dramatically at a time when we never talked about decriminalization, and it is going to grow even more in the time to come, among other things. Because we're dealing with international trends. The substances consumed become more difficult to trace and detect, and they become more dangerous. I wish sometimes that all the people who are disposed of a problematic drug behavior, one morning woke up green in their faces, because then maybe the regressive forces in the Center Party and the Workers' Party would get their eyes up to reality. Diverging ‘heavy’ drug users from ‘light’ is a fiction, a legal fairytale country. I record that in order to make this pointless calculation go up, I have to give proof of indebtedness to the most vulnerable groups in the country. So, of course, you just make the matter worse for them at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e675	I would first like to thank the representative, Tellef Inge Mørland, for the article on the climate for debate. I think it's important. We also heard it at the hearing of several opponents of the drug reform, such as the former leader of the RIO, the Rusmis users' association, Jon Storaas, who asked for respect for different views when backgrounding the drug environment. I also know many people who say that they find it difficult to speak because the climate of debate is so tough. Then we won't hear all the voices. My background to thinking about this is that I have been working with the environment, first among addicts in the 1980s, and I have been a recreational club manager for many years and followed child and youth work after that. I have been in many contexts where I have seen the work of young people who get lost in drugs run. When we talk about punishment not helping, we have to see that what these young people are meeting is help with the framework. They have individual follow-up plans — for some people it helps with just a voice of concern — it's youth follow-up, it's drug contracts, and it's prosecutions with conditions, depending on the background. But what's common is that they don't get it on their flyer if these agreements are followed up and you go on. We heard this at the hearing. There it was, among other things. nurses, and a lady told me she had 20 kids she worked with on a drug contract. She said that she thought none of them would meet up if there were no frames around this, if there were no consequences and frames there and an obligation to participate. Fortunately, this has led to low levels of drug use among young people in Norway. According to the ESPAD report for 2019, among 16-year-olds in Norway, 6 pst. by the girls and 12 pst. Among boys who have tried drugs, in other countries we compare ourselves with in Europe — I’m not able to mention all countries — there are 20–30pst, and higher among boys than among girls. We don't have to play this game, that's my opinion. In the hearing on the drug reform, 44 municipalities expressed themselves against the drug reform, with these reasons and the good preventive cooperation between the police and municipal services, and only 13 in favour. I believe that the framework we are talking about here is about positive actions for young people, and it is important not to give the negative picture created by these measures in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e688	This matter has been with us in the Health Committee for the entire period. Through visits to countries that have changed their drug policies, we have gained experience, from among others. Portugal, the Netherlands and Canada. I do not have a background from the drug field itself and I went into this work with a certain scepticism that we should make extensive legislative changes. I am soon a teenage mother myself and understand that many parents are concerned that the threshold for the use of illicit drugs will be lower. However, I personally exit the process with a conviction that major changes to Norwegian drug policy are absolutely necessary. Norway is at the top of a gloomy statistics in Europe — overdose deaths. We have to do something about that. On the other hand, we have less use in the general population, and we have traditionally been low in Europe in drug use among young people. However, the trend has reversed, and there has also been an increase among young people in the past ten years. We have to be on guard here. Perhaps today, the government had looked differently if it had put forward a more comprehensive reform of prevention, treatment and aftercare in focus, along with the legal changes to shift society’s follow-up of drug addicts from the justice sector to the health sector. We're not there today. There are many who are disappointed because they feel that the changes are not big enough in this round. However, I would like to point out that there are more progress, although many would wish that we would take even greater steps. The debate and discussion of this matter have actually led to progress towards a fairer drug policy. The debate on police prosecution procedures has been put under scrutiny, and the police have to change their procedures towards drug users. Those who ask for help should no longer be afraid of punishment when they are drugged. We're going to give people a new chance to erase the scroll after three years, so you don't have to pay the price of a mistake for the rest of your life. It is for the other government parties that ensure that this does not have retroactive effect. We're going to have a review of the lost driving licence practice. We no longer want it so that you lose the note and get out of the community because of a drug use that cannot be connected to the driving. Government parties do not support this either. The national meeting of the Labour Party said no to a general decriminalisation of the use and possession of smaller user doses. That is why I do it when I vote today. However, I hope that we have started on a path with less stigmatisation, better prevention, better health care and better aftercare for drug addicts. For me, the work on the drug reform is political. For others, it is deeply personal. I would like to thank the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud for the strong contribution she made to the pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e705	Today, the Stortinget could have taken an important decision for the most important social reform in Norway for a long time. We are one in a special situation, where we have a progressive government that proposes decriminalising user doses, a drug reform, but that faces a conservative, reactionary increase that still chooses to insist that punishment has a meaning. The criticism of the government we meet in the discussion is that it is a drug reform, but we do not have all the measures for treatment, prevention and the other proposals. But that was an independent point when we conducted the government negotiations on Jeløya, that we should not wait for the drug reform with the other measures. Therefore, in the last few years, heroin-assisted treatment has been attempted. We're implementing an escalating plan on the ground. We have implemented injection rooms to be user rooms. This can be done in areas where important changes have been made. Now it's the drug reform, and the parties who vote against do not respond to it, is why they want to maintain punishment for the use of smaller user doses. One thing is the concern that this will lead to an increase in drug use. There is no professional basis for saying that it will lead to increased use, perhaps not that it will lead to less use – it does not affect much. You can also argue that punishment doesn't help. But what you don't answer is why you don't want to make changes when we have a professional basis to say that punishment hurts. For young people, punishment has a greater negative effect than the drug they use. It's the very punishment that brings young people to the slope. It is the punishment that makes it difficult to make changes in a course of education or to get a difficult entry into a working life. Why one wants to maintain punishment when we know that it not only doesn't work, but also makes it worse for those who are users, is incomprehensible to me. Now, what you do with any suggestions is you punish people a little less. That we now go in order that you will not be punished if you apply for help, is a matter of course and shows how absurd this law has actually been. Unfortunately, there will be no drug reform today, but this fight is definitely continuing into the next majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e719	Today, after all, we're going a little step in the right direction. I hope that's a comfort to the users, to the auxiliaries, and to families and friends of addicts. But a Russian reform, for which many have struggled, is not getting us today. That is bad, because in a liberal democracy with respect for individuals, the burden of proof should lie on those who want to punish people, not the other way around. Penalties do not have a demonstrable effect, either for individuals or for society. It prevents people who want to end their drug use but who are struggling with underlying mental or trauma, from getting help and resuming a normal life. Drug crime has created an atmosphere of suspicion in auxiliaries and society. It contributes to stigmatisation and to putting an inferiority mark on people who need help. Consequently, punishment also destroys the prevention work, especially in the meeting with vulnerable young people, and we know that many young people start using alcohol to suppress the pain caused by violence, assault or crime. When we punish them, we actually punish them for being left alone with the consequences of what they were exposed to. Penalties are hitting even more. "The Russian policy cost me two parents and one childhood," wrote Celine Our Sollie in a chronicle at Nrk.no. As a daughter of two drug addicts, she would want parents to get help instead of prison sentences that made life even more difficult and the already narrowing economy of their own. Today, we received new research from the FHI, which shows that very many people who used illicit drugs were imprisoned at least once, and that one third of this was fines. There is nothing to suggest that that punishment prevented new prison sentences or drug addiction. At the National Labour Party meeting, Anniken Huitfeldt said that it was fully possible to distinguish between addicts, and promised that heavy addicts could escape punishment, because this is what we do with children under the age of 15 and people who are unpredictable. Those in this room who are concerned about the public word change associated with drugs should listen to that statement. The representative Gahr Støre said on the NRK that night that the Workers' Party will help those who deserve help, while the rest is still to be hit by a penalty. So the working party wants to earmark impunity for a single human group that deserves it, on a scale that is, to put it mildly, medically, legally and ethically questionable. I think it's actually allowed to say is incomprehensible, and I don't think it's going to stand in the history books either. Then it may not be a drug reform today, which is the most important social policy reform I have had in the last four years the opportunity to be here and debate and vote over. But today, at least, I am proud to vote in favour of a drug reform, and I am confident that it will come to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e736	It is good that there is cross-political support for the Russian reform, for example. by the representative of Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde. It is the Right, Left, Christian People's Party, such as the Red, the Green, SV and a large minority in the Workers' Party. I have to say, I was shocked at the hearing on the drug reform. The leaders of the police and a state attorney said very clearly that they thought they could search the cell phone and home only on suspicion of drug use. It's wrong, and the lawyer told me very clearly about it. But it's a problem when the police think, right now, that it's legal -- we've got a lot of information from the Norwegian Drug Police Association, which means it. Then we have a problem, because we've seen all of these numbers. This organisation has received a huge number of millions of dollars from public agencies. It's very worrying. Public agencies shall not give to organisations to work for a political stance. I hope the government will stop and control the use of this money. We have a lot of good police officers who follow the law, even before the drug reform comes, but we need to see the whole thing. Therefore, SV promotes a policy environment to look at these issues now and in the past. So to another important point: I hope that the Left and Right will look at proposal No. Eight. SV has fought for those who have been punished not to have it on the roller coaster all their life. I've been talking to a man who has a family in the United States, who lives in Norway. He cannot travel to the United States because he has been punished for smoking. He smoked cannabis once. He can't travel. Come on – we need the proposal to be retroactive, so that everyone who has made one mistake can have another chance!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e747	When I take the floor now, it is for the public change of words and the climate of debate. It has been said before, I think it was the representative of Mrs Lagen Waogslid who said that it is largely a good climate for debate here today. I agree, with a few exceptions. I will read the introduction to my first post: «We are dealing with an important matter today. It is important for individuals, for relatives, for families, for young people, for society, important for the future.» We talk about them at the bottom of the table, it's said from the pulpit. Yeah, it's a vulnerable case. I call it a raccoon. That's, President, maybe it's not allowed to say that, but that's what it is. We all have our stories. I think Maria Aasen-Svensrud will be allowed to have his story. It's one of many stories. Many of us know some. We all have our stories. When we deal with such an important issue, with so vulnerable groups, so many people involved and co-patients, it deserves a better climate of debate. I have always learned that there are two sides to one thing – plus the right one. To stand here and say that we who are opposed to decriminalization, are wrong, is to be very bastant. Me and the Progress Party believe that decriminalisation is the wrong way to go. We're sending a wrong signal. I have young people of the right age, and they have friends. We have a lot of kids like that. The signal that's been sent is that it's a legalization. You have to say that it's not, but that's what it's supposed to be, and for the Progress Party it has to be criminal. Norwegian prisons are not filled by those who have consumed drugs. There's a completely different reason they're sitting there – it's not alone. The drug chain, human trafficking, violence, killing, poverty, organized crime must be punished. It's a chain. The image is so much, much larger than that. The fact that you are standing here with your index finger and saying that we are wrong – I would have asked for that. I would like to thank the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud for sharing the story. She'll be allowed to keep it. We should accept that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e767	The representative Tellef Inge Mørland spoke in reply to Bent Höie about the criminal liability of snorting a strip of cocaine and that the majority would do so without punishment. But too many of them on e.g. Oslo’s western edge, which uses cocaine, is almost punishable today. Today's drug policy is fundamentally unfair. There's class justice in the system. Young people on the east side are punished three times as often as young people on the west side of Oslo, although young people on the west side use twice as much cannabis. Having a parent with lower education, there is a seven-fold higher risk of criminal prosecution than if one has a parent with higher education. So Russ dependence is going to be socially skeptical. Punishment is the most severe condemnation by society of undesirable acts by citizens. Punishment should be well-founded professionally, not just an expression of what we feel is best or right. Punishment also leads to stamping. In many cases, it is an important part of the justification for punishment. But in the russ field it hurts worse. With punishment and stamping, we get exclusion and marginalization. It stands still in the way of listening to those involved, and not least it stands in the way of meeting the individual user with help, offer and follow-up. Young people in need of help are punished, but research shows that people in contact with the justice sector are more likely to continue their criminal career. With today's Russian policy, which the Workers' Party and the Centre are now maintaining, this punishment continues to be socially biased in the future. I'm absolutely sure we're going to get decriminalization in the end, because that's so obvious right. But it's incredibly bad that it's not happening now, because the Workers' Party is stopping it. It is not useful to transfer responsibility to the government, which I feel is being done today by the Workers' Party, because that election has been taken by the Workers' Party itself. Decriminalisation is a prerequisite for a drug reform, to ensure that people get help. I am incredibly happy that we have made significant progress along the way, linked to the fact that there has been a flood of light on police practice with illegal search, and I have a great hope that we will never again see pictures of the police investigating a young boy's sexual organs in the open street. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who have taken the debate and argued for decriminalisation, including in the Workers' Party, but above all the organisations outside this house, users and former users who have shared their stories. They've made us wiser.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e782	The Russian reform has been referred to as the largest social reform in Norway in decades. Today it falls. It is not a cry for drug reform among most people, several newspaper commentators have written. No, sometimes the policy actually has to go ahead. And what I heard among those who stood before the Storting and demonstrated for drug reform yesterday was also not a cry for more intoxication; it was a cry for help, a cry for dignity, a cry for being seen and heard. Because that's enough now. Sometimes the sender counts. At that time, the right would never be in favour of a release of drugs or of a reform that would make vulnerable young people more vulnerable. If we had thought that punishment would have been preventative, if we had thought that punishment would have saved lives, if we had thought that it would have helped persecute vulnerable, sick people, we would still have done so. But we know that punishment doesn't work, that it raises the threshold to seek help, that young people actually lie to health professionals in fear of punishment when they themselves or friends need help, and thus put themselves or friends in greater danger. I have chosen not to be a voice in this debate, despite having been in favour of a drug reform for almost 30 years. Gradually, there was such a great deal of voice in this debate that, with credibility and weight, could witness how today’s drug policy is destroying lives. Many of them were in front of the Storting yesterday, some of them, with today's drug policy, are no longer with us. When I turned around, it was because one of them said it didn't help to remove the rush; we had to remove the cause of the rush. That's what she meant, among other things. years of sexual abuse and failure in society around her. No one chooses a life in rushes. They choose a life where they die the pain life has caused them. Therefore, punishment for drug use is a double penalty — punishment for what has led to drug use, then punishment for drug use. It hits unevenly and unsocially. Despite the increased use of drugs in the west of Oslo, young people in the east of Oslo are the most penalized, especially minorities, and especially those who have difficulties in the past. Right doesn't want it like that. That is why I would also like to thank Bent Höie for giving this matter the credibility it needed. Finally, I would like to say that I know today that many people are voting against something they are in favour of. But I'm also going to be so honest to say that I believe that in my own party there are also people who vote for something they're against. I have respect for both. It's hard for many. But most difficult it is for those who are double punished for a life they have not really chosen themselves. This is not a lost cause. There is a lost opportunity. From now on, there is the struggle to get this opportunity again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e799	I'm in favour of the Russian reform. I've been there for many years, and I really thought we'd get it now. A lot of people ask me, are you liberals, you? Then I have to answer as true is, that I'm total and I've been it almost all my life. But I don't believe in punishment. It shows the use of drugs today, but it also turned out when we tried to ban alcohol, that it does not help. I can have my view of it, but it doesn't help. And that makes the situation so much worse for those who are being hooked. Penalty knows we're going to be socially horrific. What we know is that there are a lot of people who use drugs, but they don't get caught, and they go completely free, while others get it on the scroll, get punished and have to struggle with that for the rest of their lives, sail if they've done the exact same thing. It's ruining life. So people ask me, aren't you afraid of increased drug abuse? Then I just have to say, yes, I'm afraid now, I am. I'm terrified every day because I know that rush is a magnet that makes many get stuck, and I know how it destroys. Several have told personal stories. I won't tell, but most of us have them. Rus is a dangerous magnet, and it takes life. So I understand those who are afraid, and I think we should have a debate about the general drug culture in this society, because it's pretty strong, even in the case of alcohol. It kind of doesn't seem to have fun without rushing. I think maybe the signal effect of it, which many have now been concerned about, is at least not insignificant. I'm not sure anything but that I know that punishment doesn't help, and I know that those who have it very difficult and struggling with intoxication, today have a totally impossible life situation. It took the Minister of Health quite a while to turn around, it was too long for too many, and now we're going to wait even longer. I agree very much with what the government has put forward, but I think it would have been much wiser to put forward rehabilitation, post-protection and treatment at the same time, because then I think some of the counter-arguments had been gone. That's what SV does, and we're now proposing it, for example. in the treatment of the municipal economy for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e810	Russ reform is not about law paragraphs. It is about people, about dignity, about eliminating stigma, about facilitating the health of people who, for various reasons, are using illicit drugs, and of their relatives. It's about opening the door to hope, help and dignity. It's about making it easier to ask for help, and not getting in the way of help. Today, punishment and fear of punishment stand in the way of people struggling, asking for help, and for help. Punishment stands in the way of a better life for sick people. Penalties do not help against drug use and abuse. Penalties prevent both prevention and assistance. Penalty reinforces challenges and problems, and punishment creates exclusion. Punishment creates more problems for people than drug use does. And drug addiction and punishment for drug use are socially skeptical. It is grossly unfair and cannot continue. We have to offer help instead of punishment, and if we are to succeed in doing so, decriminalisation is a fundamental prerequisite. Saying no to decriminalising use and user doses and justifying the fact that it is important for young people that it is still criminal, as more parties now do, is pushing young people in front of us as politicians, and having to take responsibility, because we have that knowledge. It's about giving people freedom and opportunities. The left will continue this fight. The Russian reform will come even if it is not adopted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e821	I come from a city, Haugesund, which has given birth to many town children. Everyone in Haugesund personally knows a drug addict. Only from my elementary school class, four of us, 28 students, heavy drug users, did not become an unusual picture of the situation as it has been and is in a city with large access to illegal drugs. My highest level of involvement is for ‘heavy’ drug users and as much prevention as possible for the youngest. I don't think there's one model for decriminalization. The countries that have decriminalised have done so in different ways and with different starting points. A Norwegian decriminalisation must be wise and well-considered and adapted to Norwegian circumstances. We have to keep what we've already done that works well. Norway is, independently of Haugesund, one of Europe’s least drug users among young people. We must do this in the future as well. The involvement of the working party in this debate is maximum live. We are a bonfire of will, and I feel that it sparkles in our party for a good policy for addicts also in the days to come. Like Tuva Moflag, I would like to thank the representative Maria Aasen-Svensrud for her contributions today. It gripped me very much, and it shows that you can use both personal experience and, not least, a little more distant experience in the policy we are going to be making together in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e834	We are beginning to approach the rounding-up of the debate. What concerns me in this debate are the rightful ones. Here, the complex causality behind the history of each drug addict is linked to the individual’s problems and life situation. The sloping safety that several people put for the day here, I'm worried that doesn't help a single new ruspacent. A number of things have been said here, in particular from the representatives of the Left Party, about the Workers' Party's policy that is completely wrong – direct strawman arguments from both the representative Grimstad and the representative Elvestuen. The representatives of the Labour Party have said the opposite from the pulpit. I don't want to punish addicts. We are proposing this today. Would you like to disagree with that proposal, say it's not good enough, but don't say the opposite. It's not fair. Young and first-time users will meet with a waiver of charges, we say in the Workers' Party, and the deletion of leaflets after three years. The left is also voting today for responses from society. They vote for fees that are twice as high as today's fines. The shades were present in parts of the debate. It gives me hope, and we are now moving a step further to make life easier for all those who experience disease but who are met as criminals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e843	In the debate we have now, I think there is reason to remember that we have taken a lot of steps since I began to follow up on drug policy — a lot of steps towards treatment within frameworks, but treatment instead of just criminal reactions. I can mention Section 12 zoning, which deals with institutional treatment, judicial programme on drug control, detention units in criminal care, LAR programmes, methadone treatment, injection rooms – and not least the Riksadvokats directive in 2014 that the police should not go after users, not run after users, which was the headline of the media. The figures in criminal statistics in Norway have shown that the number of these cases has fallen considerably. The police have worked much less on that and much more on going after the turnover and the joints behind it. According to data provided by the SSB in 2018, one was in prison for use. I don't know what relationship it was, but we have to bring that picture of history with us. I believe that we need to continue and move forward with new reforms in this field, steps that are going in this direction. As a representative of the FHI said, the characteristics of the reform – as we heard at the hearing – are, in some areas, going beyond other countries. Centres for Drug and Addiction Research, SERAF, said: No other country has proposed it as in Norway. The National Competence Service for Co-Occurrence Drug Abuse and Mental Disorder said: We will end up with Europe’s most liberal drug policy. We want to take a step forward, and it took the step of not punishing addicts and defining it more closely through a proposal we have in Stortinget today, based on the fact that when legislators define groups, equal treatment acts within that group. On page 40, different thresholds, i.e. waivers of charges for those who are addicted to drugs, are shown in the report on the drug reform. is of five grams in the case of cocaine, while one has two grams in the case of others. Then you have to kind of distinguish between those who are going to have five grams and get a waiver of charges, and others. You have the same thing when you like. say you don't want to pay for addicts if they don't show up in the drugstores. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e858	We must try to stay within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e864	That was a good idea of the previous speakers. For several years, it has been a practice for police to rarely use criminal law responses to people who are struggling with drug problems, except for criminal responses to active drug addiction. It is widely agreed that addicts should not be penalised for possession and use of drugs, including heavy drugs. Then we hear a recent study from FHI being presented on NRK Radio today: more people experience imprisonment for minor crimes as a way into further addiction and problems. That shows the need for the proposal of the Central Party. The Health Minister uses this to legitimise the drug reform, but on the contrary: we must not mix bans and treatment, as the government does. The police need sanctions, the vulnerable need help and follow-up, the sick need treatment. The proposal of the centre party is to amend the pharmaceutical law so that we ‘ensure that if possession or use of drugs is related to the dependence of suspects after repeated use of narcotic drugs, the prosecution authority shall not prosecute criminal offences’. I am pleased with the majority to ‘ensure that the police do not prosecute an infringement of the first paragraph of Section 24 of the Medicines Act, in which the offender provides assistance or summons emergencies in emergency situations, or in which such an infringement is found in offended persons when other criminal offences are reported.’ The centre party is part of a number of minority proposals today. In short, they are concerned with the evaluation, use and impact of schemes, the obligation of health professionals to provide information, reaction records, unconditional prison sentences – not to forget the proposal for which I find that many argue, namely the proposal to ‘investigate and promote proposals for necessary changes to the law ensuring decriminalisation for the use and possession of minor user doses for heavy addicts, so that this group meets with good health care and follow-up rather than criminal responses’. If people agree with this proposal, I really encourage all parties to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e881	The representative Carl-Erik Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e886	President, it is possible that this is on the verge of parliamentary practice, but I would like to say through the President of the Council of State: Dear Bent. We have worked together on this reform in my four years at Stortinget. I would like to have four more years for both of them in this work. Maybe that's not how it works. But I want to end the four-year debate with a thank you to health and, above all, in this context, to the Minister of Care for the job he has done and has gained great international recognition for. I do so with the words of Jens Stoltenberg when he awarded honorary membership of the Workers' Party to the Kim Friele mentioned in 2008, a membership to which I do not believe the Council of State is aspiring. He said, "You have made Norway a more decent society." When I know that I get a lump in the throat of the words of the former Labour Party Minister, I guess this says a little about how disappointed I am about that party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e893	I am not disappointed with any parties here today, but I am disappointed with the result we get in this case. I am absolutely convinced that everyone is doing what they think is right, but we do not agree on what is right on this matter. I am absolutely sure that all 169 population representatives are equally concerned with limiting harmful use of drugs and limiting the harm done to society by drugs. We agree on that. And then there's some nuances in how we're going to follow it on. So it's nice that the Workers' Party tells us about its breakthroughs in this case, which reminds us that the vast majority of the breakthroughs are something that draws the majority of people into the direction of what is government's drug reform. As I said in my first post: We have had a good cooperation on this matter. In my post, I addressed this with proportionality and police investigation methods. It is interesting to see that several parties support the analysis I made, namely that the Riksadvokat's clarification of letter 9 April is what the Stortinget believes about that matter – let it be clear. And when we agree on that, we've actually gotten quite far in that field. The Police Directorate, the Riksadvokat – there is no doubt about what Stortinget thinks. The representative Vågslid was concerned that she could even name two lawyers who thought it was possible to differentiate between different users in the law. If so, what? Is that an opportunity we want? Is there any way we want to use this? Like Haukeland Liadal, I'm from Haugesund. I actually think I had more in my class than she had a drug problem. What they had in common was that when they had a drug problem, already in high school, they started running with the police — they became criminals. They became criminals before they became drug addicts. That's the whole problem. So if these legal representatives are pointing to, find a fantastic solution to such a differentiation, that doesn't solve the basic problem. Nor will it solve what we want to achieve with this reform. Stigmatisation continues, and punishment continues with its harmful effects. That's why we don't even want that possibility. Thank you for a fine debate, which is proportionate to the seriousness of this matter. Thank you to the Minister of Health, who promoted this matter, and to a government that stood behind it, almost every man.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e908	Some comments for some suggestions: First, the proposal to remove prison from the penitentiary. SERAF Report 3/2021 shows that virtually no one today is punishing prison sentences without conditions where use and less possession of drugs are the sole basis for judgment. The centre party therefore proposes that today's practice be passed on, and we do not see the need for a change in the law when this is the case. What the SERAF report shows is that many of those in prison today need treatment for a drug problem, combined with other important services such as housing, work and social networks. It is not about this reform, and it is regrettable. So to the proposal to remove information in the reaction register after three years. It's not like a law break that's being done in your youth is following you, because there are already arrangements in this field today for those who are under 18 years of age. We're skeptical about making this a general right for everyone, and instead we have a proposal to extend the current regime for those under 18 to 25 years. Then we are behind the proposal for Decision I, to clarify what is and should be the practice of the police today, that people calling for emergency situations or assisting them in emergency situations should not be penalised, and proposals for Decision III, that reactions should be proportionate. In the other position that we are also discussing in the same debate, the Central Party is proposing ten proposals for a prevention and treatment reform within the drug field. We get a lot of plurals. We should of course have multiple numbers for everything, but one important thing is that the government now has to make sure that the BUP gets its drug-free skills. That's exactly what the Riksrevision points out today in the criticism they made when it comes to mental health protection. I think that the debate that has been in the staging room today has been very good, even though the debate on drugs that we have been in has been strongly polarized, and many characteristics have been used. What we should have been talking about is that a mass mass is some of the things that addicts should not be punished. We are certain that young people should not be punished, but that one should use alternatives to punishment, i.e. exemption from prosecution, etc. But this isn't getting multiples because the government party doesn't want to work out other than its own model. Otherwise I must say that I thank Tellef Inge Morland for what he said about the culture of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e925	I was caught by my own post last time, because I was allowed to talk about Haugesund – and it's always a party. I forgot to draw attention to a slight change in the solution proposed by the Workers' Party – what we are going to support subsidiaryly. There we wanted to add the word ‘use’ behind the word ‘applies’ to the abbreviation in point (k). It has also been submitted in writing, and the proposers are behind it. Otherwise, when it comes to the culture of debate, I don't think the representative Toppe needs to go that far to find the most pointless plays that have ever been on this matter. There has been a bit of the problem in this case that among other things. Workers' Party rapporteurs have gone out very hard this week and told you that you can bring hash enough for the whole class, because now everything is allowed. Drugs are not allowed with the government's drug reform. So everyone can go a little bit by themselves. That being said, no one accepts what some have been subjected to in this case by serious and incorrect claims. As politicians, we have a special role in being just when it comes to the matter. Then I would like to comment on it as, among other things. The representative of Stordalen was concerned, i.e. the impression that this is legalisation. Who's saying it's legalization? Yes, they are against the reform. It's the police, the customs director and some politicians. This is legalization, it's in the papers. No, it's not. You have to stop saying that. This isn't legalization. In fact, the threshold for meeting young people and giving them follow-up from society will be lower with government drug reform. You have to stop saying things that don't vote about the drug reform. The fight for a drugs reform must continue. It needs the country, and it needs those who actually have a drug challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e934	The representative Kjersti Top has the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e939	I found the last post from the case spokesman to be an unnecessary post at the end of the debate. He said that there is only one party in this debate that makes claims that are wrong. We do feel that on both sides – that our policies and solutions are being misinterpreted. I mean, in case we have to take responsibility for both sides, when we mean different things. When it comes to the culture of debate, I'm not most concerned about us. One gets to hear that one must sleep well on a pile of corpses, and that I hope that you lose everything you're happy about. It's okay. But what I'm worried about are the kids. The fact that young people who are against drugs say that they try to change their names because they get so much hot, and that young people hear such things, I think we should be concerned about, because it has consequences for democracy and the open conversation, regardless of what we think about drug reform – decriminalisation or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e946	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e963	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e970	There is today an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which supports the position to legislate on the obligation to consult on matters of Sami interest. It is appropriate to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in a procedure that deviates slightly from ordinary law. The 2013 Presidency letter on the handling of matters relating to Sami interests has been followed up, and I experience that we have had a good dialogue with the Sameting in the process. It's short speaking time, but I'm going to touch some of the points that the setting picks up. Firstly, the majority believe that consultations contribute to the participation of Samer and Samer in decision-making matters that may affect them. In order to be a real process of consultation, it is essential that they are implemented with a view to reaching an agreement on the proposed measures and before a real decision is taken. However, there is no obligation for consultations to result in an agreement. The Committee has noted that good experience of consultations has been gained over time and considers that it is therefore appropriate now to legislate for the State. In line with constitutional practice, the Government has not made proposals to legislate on the possible obligation of the Storting to consult Sami interests. The majority of the Committee considers that the issue needs to be properly addressed. Therefore, we ask the Presidency to assess whether there may be an obligation or be natural for the Storting to consult the Sami interests in dealing with matters relating to Sami issues in any given case. The case must, of course, be brought back to the plenary session, and it is natural that the case also contains any provisions on how it should be dealt with in the Storting Rules of Procedure. This matter should be brought back to consideration as soon as possible during the next accumulation period. Nearly two years ago, this case was sent back to the government because there was too much uncertainty about the demarcation, obligations and scope of the consultation obligation proposed for municipalities and county councils. It is now corrected and, together with the important clarifications made by the Committee in its comments, it provides a good framework for consultation by the local authorities. There has been criticism in the process of the relationship between what is now being introduced and the Constitution. This law will contribute to the implementation of Norway’s human rights obligations and thus the Constitution § 92. Both the Norwegian Human Rights Institute and the United Nations Committee on Human Rights have recommended that Norway legislate on the rules on consultation with the Sameting and Sami interests. The law does not imply any indecent or disproportionate discrimination against co-workers at the expense of others. There are measures to safeguard the interests of minorities in a majority-driven society. The law complies with the recommendations of the UN Committee on Racial Discrimination, the Constitution and the human rights obligations of Norway. I will make a brief comment in a later article on the relationship with the Public Health Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e987	A well-functioning democracy is not just a matter of well-implemented elections and majority rule. It is also a feature of democracy that the majority respect minorities in a decent way, and in particular the Sami population in this case. As indigenous people, together have a special position in our country. The same is officially recognised as an indigenous population, and Norway has signed international agreements, among which the ILO Convention is the most important, which obliges us to do so. Meeting the interests of an entire group of people with a view to good coexistence and mutual respect cannot be about fighting battles on a case-by-case basis, but must be based on long-term cooperation based on trust and mutual understanding. In this context, the proposed changes to the Law of Association are an important step in a direction that also contributes to the fulfilment of the international obligations of Norway. Consultations are a special form of negotiation where the starting point is that one should listen and meet under an intention to actually agree, even if that will not always be the case. Over time, of course, it is important to build mutual understanding and trust. The consultation mechanism is not always a form of negotiation for individual cases. It's about building a larger whole. Consultations between the State, represented by the Government and the Federation, have been practised for many years. With the amendment we are now adopting, we are also formalising similar arrangements for counties and municipalities. I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Mr Sivertsen, for his thorough work and good cooperation on this matter, which is now largely adopted by a large majority in the Grand Duchy. A solid and broad parliamentary basis is an important and necessary foundation for the work now to be put into practice through the consultation mechanisms. But at one point, government parties and opposition separate layers, namely at the point of the proposed changes in the Public Health Act. For government parties, the principle of transparency is of course a starting point. We have also made a proposal that tightens up what was the government's starting point. However, when we cannot follow the opposition at this point, it is because we believe the public intervention is not large, and that the practical framework conditions for states and municipalities are getting worse than those we see that the state has so far enjoyed communicating with the Sameting. In practical terms, the possibilities of having the confidential conversation and sharing preliminary assessments may be an important part of the toolbox in order to find good solutions. I have noted that the whole thing shares this view. In any case, many municipalities and county councils will in the future carry out consultations with the Sami interests in their areas, and I hope and expect that they will do that in a good way. I take up the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1010	Then the representative, Olemic Thommessen, drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1015	When it comes to Sámi questions, it's no secret that the Progress Party basically has a different view than the other parties in this hall at the Sameting and that we have a separate merger. That doesn't mean we're not concerned with Sami history, language and culture. We're busy taking care of it, but as a principle, we're going to treat everyone who lives in Norway in the same way. Regardless of their origin, there should be no special arrangements for some people, but one should treat all inhabitants in a non-discriminatory way. Whether a matter has been discussed in Stortinget, in the government, in the county council or in the local council, decisions should be taken on the basis of non-discrimination. In principle, we are opposed to giving this consultation obligation to Norwegian municipalities and county municipalities. We didn't think it was a good idea. We don't think it's going to be involved and contribute to fewer conflicts in those areas giving one group special advantages versus another. Nor do we think it is good to impose a complex new requirement on the local authority sector, which means that the proceedings will take longer. If there's something the northern parts of the country need, it's growing in the population. One doesn't need more bureaucracy and things that make it hard to get the population to rise. Therefore, we are in principle opposed to the legislative changes proposed in this proposition. In one area, however, we go in subsidiaryly and form multiple numbers with the Socialist Left Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party. As the representative Olemic Thommess did well when it was open, we have chosen to form multiple numbers with the three named parties so as not to give the opportunity to exempt these consultations from openness. We think it's a bad track to be able to sit in the future without the public, media and others having insight into what's being discussed, what's being written, and what's being consulted about. We think it will only be involved and contribute to even more mistrust among those who are not on the inside of those discussions. We think there are good reasons to have more publicity and an open and transparent administration in municipalities and municipalities. So, as a subsidiary, we have that if this is agreed, which is a great reason to believe it will, we are not in favour of opening up to less public opinion. We vote accordingly with those parties, not to go as far as the government and the government party will when it comes to being able to consult without being completely open to the rest of the world about those processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1024	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for doing a very thorough job in this matter. As the rapporteur went on to say, the second round we have is this proposition in Stortinget. It was sent back to the government in 2019 because the majority thought it was too unpresidious, that the supervisor had to attend the hearing, and not least that it had to be consulted publicly. There has been a public hearing, and the hearing opinions have been very shared, from those who believe it is an incredibly good idea, to those who strongly advise against it. The center party believes that what we've got on the table now is too unpresist. We do not think it is accurate enough to define who it is to be consulted on, what kind of matters it is to be consulted on, when the consultations are to be concluded, etc. That's why we're happy to have the majority in the Committee on clarifications that make this clear. It is agreed that in order for a case to be considered to affect the Sami interests, the case must have a general interest in Sami culture, and it is assumed that it should not be consulted with individuals. The majority state that the municipality and county may and should set time limits to which the parties may relate, so that it is clear when the consultations are to be concluded. There must be a reasonable time for them to respond or act, but at the same time we must avoid any significant delay in the procedure. Furthermore, it is clear that when the Sametinget has right of objection under the Planning and Building Act, it does not enter into an obligation to consult. We assume that the Sámi Consultants are briefing the Sámi Consulting on matters under the Planning and Building Act or other matters, and that they then coordinate their position, so that we do not get unfortunate situations in which matters that have been settled in the consultations are objected to by the Sámi Consulting. Finally, the Central Party, the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and SV do not support the government's proposal to allow municipalities and county municipalities access to exempt documents from public disclosure. As I pointed out, there was a great deal of disagreement in the hearing opinions. It suggests that there is explosiveity for conflicts in these matters, and we believe that full transparency will be anti-conflict. These clarifications, which we have received in the majority remarks, have been absolutely essential for the Centre Party to now vote in favour of the proposed amendments, and we are pleased that we have reached an agreement that takes care of both the Sami interests and the municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1037	We in SV would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a very good job. We are much more satisfied with what we got back in the second round in this matter than what we were with the first. I would also like to stress that what we are doing now is part of the implementation of Norway's human rights obligations and, therefore, of the Constitution § 92. I think that's a very important starting point for us, because this is about indigenous people. That's why I think I'm going to spend some time on what the Advance Party has as an appeal point, namely non-discrimination. We who have been working on equality for quite a number of years know that if you treat people who are not equal in the first place, equally, it continues to distort the power relationship or the things we want to correct. You just have to have some tools to correct old wrongs and different power relationships, whether it's between sex, or it's in society else. That's what this is all about. This means that it does not conflict with any principle of equality, for example. to have the Sameting or to have consultations and to have it regulated, as you do now. One thing, in the case of consultations, is that it is precisely that it is aimed at finding consensus in matters before they come to treatment, and that must be a good thing. The second is that these institutions and legal entities should be involved in ensuring that there is equal treatment in these processes. That's the whole starting point, because it hasn't been before. I'm very happy that we're taking new steps on this now. I am also very pleased with the clarifications we have received, including: that there must be some time limits and there must be a reasonable time in these processes. I think that's important – that it doesn't feel like a kind of brake in the systems – and that's what I want to encourage all parties to take care of, so that these are systems that are experienced as both practical and good. The last thing about publicity, and that's where we think it takes very strong arguments to limit it. We see no reason why it should be in these cases. We believe, on the contrary, that it can help to do something about the attitudes that are still there, and on which these consultations are meant to be better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1046	I am pleased to be able to participate in this milestone in ensuring the cooperation of an important tool to promote their affairs in the meeting with the Norwegian public. We're taking some important steps forward with these legal provisions. I'm glad. The proposal proposes to legislate on the obligation of municipalities and county councils to consult representatives of the Sámi interests concerned. I am pleased that a large majority on the Stortinget support the proposal. Since the obligations of the State to consult pursuant to Article 6 of the ILO Convention will not apply directly to the municipalities and counties of Norway, we must ensure that the State as a contracting party provides mechanisms to ensure that municipal and county authorities carry out consultations pursuant to Article 6. This is what we are cleaning up by legislating the obligation of municipalities and county councils to consult representatives of Sami interests. There have been some rounds back and forth about this, and it's not unnatural. The obligation to consult intervenes in what is the usual procedure, but in Norway it is that we have an indigenous person, and we have obligations and decency to ensure a common right to be consulted on matters that directly interfere with their interests. It is not intended to be subject to consultation for matters of a general nature which must be presumed to affect the whole of society in the same way. A good clearing and clearing job has been done by all actors. It's good we've come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1057	I would like to start by thanking you for many good contributions from the Chair on this matter and for good comments in the Committee's position. The government is concerned that people throughout Norway are actively involved and involved in decision-making processes. We want to facilitate good democratic processes between the authorities and the community. Here the consultation system is an important tool. I am therefore pleased that the proposal to legislate the consultation system has brought together broad political support in the Stortinget. The bill also lays down the obligation to consult municipalities and county councils. Nevertheless, we have chosen not to propose detailed rules of procedure at local and regional level, because we believe it provides the necessary flexibility and room for local adaptation. Municipalities and county councils will often be in a better position than the state to assess the practical needs for dialogue with different interest groups, including the Sami interests. As Stortinget also asked, there will be a guide for the municipalities and county councils at the same time as the law enters into force. That supervisor is just about the corner, and I think it will provide useful clarifications, advice and tips for conducting the consultations. At state level, we have a long and good experience with the consultation system on Sami issues, and although we do not always reach agreement – because it is constantly happening – the system has nevertheless laid a very good foundation. It is a good system that provides a good basis for cooperation, mutual trust and more knowledge in administration. The fact that you feel heard, and knowing that the other party is listening, makes it easier to accept a different outcome from what you might have imagined. It's also an important value. I hope that municipalities and county councils will experience the same thing, that early involvement of Sami interests and good dialogue could lead to fewer complaints and subsequent legal proceedings. There is no reason to believe that the consultations will impose a heavy workload on the municipalities. After all, there are only a limited number of cases and municipalities already have good participation schemes that can be used. Furthermore, a good process contributes to better decisions, which in turn may lead to easier implementation of decisions and will help reduce the overall workload.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1074	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1080	I agree with the Council of State that it is important here that there is great flexibility and confidence in the ability of the municipalities to deal with it. It is difficult to predict any possible situation that may arise — from Kautokeino, who has a Sami majority population, to municipalities where the Sami population may be completely marginalised down to individuals. However, as the representative Mr Greni and several other speakers have spoken, it has been necessary for the Committee to make some clear clarifications and limitations in addition to the proposition promoted by the government. It is also a premise on the basis of the broad agreement of the government's bill. I also noticed that the Council of State in its speech praised the Committee for having made good remarks. She also pointed out that there will be a final version of the guide that we have seen as a draft as part of the committee's proceedings and that we asked for. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that the premises on deadlines, what, who and how to coordinate this as stated by the Stortinge are expressed in the department's supervisor?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1091	As the representative sees in the proposal, we have chosen not to agree with detailed requirements and criteria on how to implement things. We believe that the municipalities and county councils need that flexibility and that space to find out how these consultations are most appropriate. We also see that from the experience we have in the state with consultations, that we need to do it in a slightly different way, also because the issues and the complexity of the issues are very variable. Sitting down in front of the consultations and agreeing on a milestone plan on how the consultations should be organised is a freedom and trust that we believe should be at the level of the administration concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1096	I agree with all the Council of State said – all the assessments – but as I said, the comments that make the necessary clarifications and limitations in relation to the proposition are premises that we have managed to reach a broad majority. So there's a lack of the proposition that was put forward. That's the way it is in a democracy. A good thing can be done better, and in this case, a broad majority on the Stortinget has improved a draft law. I have to repeat my question: will the Council of State ensure that the premises and limitations expressed by the Stortinget through majority comments on this matter will also be clearly expressed in the guidance she is going to send out to the municipalities on how to follow up a law in which the legislator has expressed what limitations and clarifications should be made in relation to the first proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1103	As I said, the supervisor is coming pretty soon. We would of course wait to send it out until we had seen the final proposal that the Storting will adopt today. We're going to take with us the signals and the leaders that are in the notes, but at the same time I have to say that it's important for us that the scope of action that the parties should have in such consultations is an important principle, and that does not mean that we will have too much detail control. But, of course, the government and I as the Council of State will meet and take into account the majority comments in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1108	I'd like to follow up on the previous replicator. What the municipalities have requested in the hearings is clearer boundaries and not a larger space for action. Here we are talking about consultation obligations. There is still the right to consult, and this is done to a large extent today where the municipality believes it is necessary. However, a clear definition of the matters subject to consultation has been requested by the municipalities, as well as a clear definition of who to consult in these cases. Will the Council of State respond to this in that guide — when the hearing bodies insist that this be much more defined and clarified?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1115	As I replied to the representative Sivertsen, we would like to take with us the signals that Stortinget has included in its majority comments, but I would also like to repeat that what has happened, for example. specific time-limits relating to the law of union, something I do not think is very appropriate. I believe that it is also important for municipalities and county councils to be liberal about how they consider the consultation to be most appropriate, on a case-by-case basis, precisely because things are often very different in nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1120	The majority have made it clear in the statement that it is the county council and the municipality that are going to set those deadlines, so that's not what we're talking about here. But then to a completely different question: The department says in the proposition that this will not give extra expenses to the municipalities, and that it might on the contrary make matters more flexible. It remains to be seen. Some hearing bodies are very concerned that this will result in a lot of extra work and many extra rounds, and that it will be expensive for municipalities. If it turns out in retrospect that the municipalities receive large additional costs by now imposing this consultation obligation on them, will the Council of State ensure that it is compensated against the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1127	We want to follow up on these consultation issues and see if it actually gets the way that many people think it will save the municipalities too much extra work, and we will of course come back to it if it happens, and evaluate it if we see that some municipalities get huge financial extra costs. But that's what you're going to get back to as part of a municipal proposition or a government budget, because it's a budgetary question, and I can't stand here and answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1132	The cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1139	As previously notified, I need to link some comments to a different majority from what I last mentioned – that is, what others have been involved in – consisting of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which do not support the government's proposal to allow municipalities and county councils to exempt documents exchanged during consultations from public access rights. It is primarily because we believe that today's municipal authorities provide sufficient access to make this type of derogation for the purpose. In the process that has taken place, there have also been no good enough examples of why we are going to exempt this further. On the other hand, we support the right of the State, and also State bodies, to the Sameting and other Sami bodies, as proposed by the government. I'm very concerned that merpublicity is also going to be practiced here. There is no secret that there are still some places in the country where there are quite sharp differences between Sami interests and how they have been treated. These contradictions are often expressed in comments fields in social media or in other particularly inappropriate ways. Secrecy and exempting documents unnecessarily will not contribute to alleviating these conflicts. It will only contribute to further conspiracy theories and to the maintenance of these conflicts. I agree with the Council of State and believe that when we get started with this, consultations and thus openness around them will help mitigate these conflicts so that we can move on. These reasons are ahead of us the minor disadvantages that the administration can get by not being able to exempt the public as much as has been proposed. I would also like to take the opportunity to say thank you for your words. And thanks also to the representative Njåstad, who helped to have a factual and principleal approach to what the view of the Progress Party is. It's not always that we've experienced the same material when we've discussed the same policy in this room. I'll finish with the line chord shift. I have to be allowed to say that when I ask a government council if she is going to follow up the Storting decision and premise for a law decision, there is no other answer to that than yes. So I add the good will and understand that the Council of State takes the remarks that are to be seen as the lawbreaker and premise for how the law is to be interpreted, and that, of course, they are going to be made clear in the guidelines. If they don't, it's not like the premises and boundaries that the Storting has done don't apply. Then it will just be that they are not clearly expressed enough to the municipalities, so I do not think there is any disagreement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1150	One of the main objections in the consultation round, on which we have also received the most requests, is that there will be a penalty round. The municipalities are afraid that they will first consult together, so enter into negotiations, for example. about a cabin field, and then you're going to give and take; it's going to be reduced to half. In the next round, a regulatory plan will be adopted, there will be objections from Sametinget, and then you will be in a new round – and there will be a round of penalties for the municipality. Therefore, I would like to clarify the comment made by the majority in this case, where we assume that the Sámi consulting parties inform the Consetation about the consultation process in cases where the Sameting has right of objection under the Planning and Building Act. We assume that the Sametinget and any consultation parties strive to coordinate their views. It is our opinion that it is unfortunate that questions that have been resolved through consultations where consensus has been reached are the subject of objections from the Sametinget. A process of multiple rounds of the same issue, with both consultation rounds and objections, will create a difficult situation for stakeholders and extend the length of proceedings, making municipal planning unnecessary. We therefore assume that the Sametinget and the municipality together ensure the arrangements for the consultations – that is an important clarification. Then it's the relationship with the Storting; it's not clarified in this setting, and we're leaving to the presidency to decide whether there's matters the Storting should be subject to consultation. I have to say, for the Central Party, it is unnatural that a legislative assembly should have a consultative duty. With regard to the government’s obligation to consult, today’s legislative act is actually merely a codification of current practice. And then to the exchange of lines: I also have to say that I expect the Council of State to take in the clear majority remarks that lie here, which are important demarcations of both what kind of matters it is to be consulted on, who can conclude the consultation, what kind of circle you have to consult with, and who has the important clarification that there should be no penalty under takings with new objections to matters that have been resolved. I expect the Council of State to take it into the supervisor, so it will be made clear in line with the comments of the majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1162	The representative Sivertsen would add the credit to the interpretation of my answers, and the representative Greni expects simpler answers. If it's yes- and no-answering the Storting wants to, they're going to get it now. On both lines from the two representatives instead, I can answer yes. We are in the process of developing the supervisor and of course we have taken the majority remarks with us, and what is related to economic issues, we are referring to in the proposition, which I am sure Mr. Greni has read and knows. So I just want to say one thing about the posts of the representative Sivertsen, about exceptions from merpublicity. We see from the state that good consultations require confidential talks. They require trust, it requires the parties to share information and provisional positions with each other. It might be one of the most important tools. In particular, when the KS and the Sameting itself so clearly state to the Committee that an important tool for strengthening consultations is precisely that one can have exceptions, for example: I am a little surprised that the opposition is so strongly of the opinion that it is not a tool that the parties will be given. These are questions, for example: related not only to reindeer farming but to Sami cultural interests. And take, for example, a wind farm, that if you are to consult on such a difficult matter, you have opportunities, for example. from the administrative side of the municipality to provide information which has not yet been completed in its file. In this way, one wants to give the counterparty the opportunity to gain insight and knowledge of a whole in the matter, more than what the public knows, and then one deprives the counterparty of that opportunity. I have to remind you that it is going to be a completely open, public record from consultations. But being able to sit in all confidence and respect for each other's position and communicate information that is not known to the public, for various reasons, I think it's a pity that we don't give them the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1177	Let me start by saying thank you for yes. There was nothing else we asked for, so then we are satisfied with it. I am a little surprised by the great commitment of the Council of State to increase the possibilities of secrecy in public administration. I think everyone in this room is used to sitting in pretty intense and confidential conversations, where it helps us find solutions. But as I said in my post, this has to be weighed against other things, and one is then the principle of more openness in Norwegian administration. In my thinking about that, I also believe that there is a difference between the state, with a government that has a constitutional responsibility towards the Stortinget, and the possibility of exempting documents there, and a local government sector, which is largely governed by the Presidency principle and is an administration based on factual information, and where political considerations follow. The second, which is an essential element – as I know well from my own constituency, Northernland – is precisely the conflicts that are, and the suspicion that are from both sides, to make it simple, in the conflict between Norwegian and Sami. When we weigh it against each other, I believe that the examples of the state councils are drawing up as the reason for allowing more public exceptions, there is already a basis for today. It is based in the Administrative Act to exempt technical and economic conditions that damage business operations. It can still be used and must be used when necessary. Postponed publicity may be used. But that doesn't prove it well enough. And then, when the total is weighed against the purpose of preventing the conflicts that we have to end, we fall to the conclusion that it is right not to give the exception that the government has proposed. But we can disagree on that, we live with that. So I think, like the Council of State, that this is going to happen, that you will learn from both sides that this is useful, and that society as a whole serves to clarify these conflicts in a civilised and holistic way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1188	The representative Heidi Greni has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1193	The rapporteur explained and clarified what I wanted to clarify, that there is nothing to suggest that you cannot exempt personal data or business secrets in these kinds of cases as well. Then I have registered KS’ wish to have an expanded possibility of exception for publicity. This applies, for example: providing an unfinished map – e.g. from the administration of a municipality – which has not been provided to the public. I understand that need, and I understand the position of the KS, but we shall then balance that with how conflict-affecting such an exception law will be. I am in an area where we have a high level of conflict from before – I see only the climate of debate that has been around a snowmobile loop – and everything that gets stuck under a chair is at least by definition conflict-provoking. So for us, it's more important to have a conflict-absorbing input into this than to get the extra provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1217	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1224	With increasing climate change, there will be more extreme weather. Serious accidents of pace and race in recent years demonstrate the need to ensure that all legislation has the necessary safety mechanisms. Supervision is an important tool to ensure compliance, which contributes to the quality of construction. This was the background to the introduction of an obligation for municipalities to supervise construction works in the 2008 Planning and Building Act. In the past, municipalities had a right, but no obligation to supervise. We believe that good and comprehensive planning that takes account of current and future climate change is at the heart of a climate-friendly society. In this work, municipalities have a particularly high responsibility for taking good decisions that provide citizens with security and predictability. Climate change is increasing in flood suppression and the ability to escape flooding. This is particularly the case for areas where parts of the area are built with dwellings, commercial buildings, roads, parking spaces and other infrastructure. Close surfaces that do not allow the water to reach the underlying soil but pass it along the surface increase the risk of flooding. Climate change has consequences for roads and railways, and it needs to be ensured against more and more frequent races. It is necessary to draw up a comprehensive plan for this work. Driving on Norwegian roads shall be safe. Why does the government not give higher priority to racial protection? We need to ensure improved guidance to improve the quality of investigation work. That is why we are proposing today that: «The Government is asked to develop guidance material or other measures that enhance the competence of the municipalities on the content of impact assessments, the need and value of these as a basis for decision-making», and that: ‘The government is asking the government to clarify the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality in such a way that future risk assessments of race, pace and floods are done thoroughly enough.’ In addition, we propose that: ‘The decision asks the Government to enforce a notification obligation on all findings of mercury.’ With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1247	Supervision is an important tool to ensure compliance. This proposal for a representative is initially a proposal for amendments to the Planning and Building Act §§ 25-1 and § 32-1. The proposal is to strengthen the responsibility of the municipalities for monitoring compliance with the requirements and to introduce the right of neighbours and others to appeal to the municipality's decision not to supervise or follow up illegal situations of minor importance. The rules on supervision were tightened up in the context of the 2008 Planning and Building Act, which the case-speaker also mentioned. This is also the background to the introduction of an obligation for municipalities to supervise construction works in the 2008 Law. Previously, the municipalities were only right, but no duty. Municipalities handle a significant number of construction issues, and it would not be appropriate to supervise all cases. In the context of the 2008 Law on Planning and Buildings, it was considered that it should be for the municipalities themselves to choose how to carry out supervision, whether it is done through the allocation of resources, increased or enhanced competences, better forms of cooperation, organisational changes or other efficiency measures. Such an approach was supported at the time by the majority of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, including by SV. The desire of the representative to comply with the legislation will probably be supported by many of us. But it is also important to recognise that supervision and control are not the only way to the goal here. Preventive work on good guidance, information and clear rules is also essential to avoid misunderstandings and errors that could lead to non-compliance. However, it is important to increase monitoring and control, if appropriate, in such a way that it does not lead to increased bureaucracy, that it is effective, and that it is directed towards areas where experience shows that most errors occur and are missing. This work is well done by the department. In the Right we therefore mean that it would make sense to wait for the result of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1262	With increasing climate change, there will be more extreme weather. We've seen more and more incidents in recent years, for example. Steps and floods. It shows the importance of ensuring that all legislation has the necessary security mechanisms. Supervision is an important tool to ensure compliance, which contributes to the quality of construction. There was also a background to the introduction of an obligation for municipalities to supervise construction works in the 2008 Planning and Building Act. They used to be only right, but no duty. Municipalities deal with a significant number of construction issues, and it would not be appropriate to oversee all cases. When examining the 2008 Planning and Building Act, it was considered that it should be up to the municipalities themselves to decide how to carry out such supervision, whether it is done through the allocation of resources, increased or expanded competences, other forms of cooperation, organisational changes or other things. The centre party therefore believes this is well taken care of in today's law, and we are going to vote against the SV's proposal. The centre party meets the outcome of the government's ongoing work to amend the rules on supervision and control in line with the recommendations of the 2018 Building Quality Committee. Municipalities handle a significant number of construction issues annually, and it is not practicable for municipalities to exercise supervision in absolute all cases. For this reason, no provision has been made that binds up the use of local resources or has given specific requirements for professional competence and organisation. Furthermore, the introduction of the supervisory obligation makes it possible for municipalities themselves to decide how to implement it. However, it is important that it is done in a way that is effective and targeted at areas where most errors and shortcomings arise in experience. The Central Party refers to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation’s assessment that the proposed introduction of the right of appeal will have practical and economic consequences for the municipalities. Then I would like to explain a little bit about the proposal of the Central Party in this matter: We believe it is appropriate that the government develop guidance material or other measures that enhance the competence of municipalities in the content of impact assessments, and the need and value of them as a basis for decision-making. It is important to contribute to further empowerment in the municipalities, and the contribution of the government can relieve the large administrative pressure in the municipalities. Furthermore, we will clarify the division of responsibilities between state and municipality, so that risk assessment for race, step and flood for the future is done thoroughly enough. It is important that the State takes a greater role, so that not all responsibility falls on the municipality. Finally, we ask the government to establish a legal obligation to notify all the findings of mercury, which has recently been updated, among other things. with the terrible mercury in Gjerdrum. We have to do everything we can to make such events not happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1285	The reason we promoted this proposal was to have a safety valve in cases that could have fatal outcomes. What we know is that there's more extreme weather now, and what we also know is that construction can lead to an increased risk of natural damage, migration and race. We know that. So the reason why we're promoting this proposal is to make sure that the decisions that are to be taken before launching such projects, if there's a risk of progress and race, are actually carried out. I'm a little surprised, because this is one of the suggestions I've made, for which I was quite sure it would become a majority. I have to say that I'm reacting a little to what I think is a misreading of the proposal. It is not proposed here that all cases should be supervised. No supplementary supervisory obligation is required, only to make the assessments required by the information available and to take a formal decision if there is a request from any person concerned. Many people have called me after damage has occurred and said that they have told the municipality that you must not do this, because this is dangerous – and has not been heard. That's why it says that. It is also about the fact that this obligation of supervision cannot be something that we believe the municipalities should follow up only when it suits them. This must be a provision we have put in place because it should work – because such interventions can result in very serious damage both to barley and otherwise. It is also afraid of rematches, legal cases and major practical and economic consequences. If this procedure is initially done well, this will not cause any such problems. I don't think any neighbors are in a queue to spend a lot of money on legal proceedings if it's not that they're telling us about something that's dangerous, and then the municipality has to fix it. They actually have a duty to do that today, but this provision is to ensure that this is actually implemented. This proposal is based on, on the one hand, a balance between the interests to be safeguarded by the rules of law on the environment and safety and, on the other hand, the desire to avoid using the means necessary to ensure that the legislator has actually adopted them. I'm a little surprised that the Storting isn't part of this. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1300	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1305	Supervision is a good and important tool to ensure that legislation is complied with and to detect errors so that the buildings are of the quality they are supposed to have. I therefore share a great deal of the intention of the proposers. At the same time, I am concerned that any changes to the rules on supervision contribute to the effectiveness of supervision and targeting the areas where most errors and shortcomings arise in experience. In my view, the proposal for a representative will not contribute to this. In particular, it concerns the proposal for an extension of the right of appeal. Neighbors and others affected by a construction measure currently have a number of possibilities to appeal against decisions at different stages of the construction case. In addition, it is possible to require conversion and to request legal review under the municipal law. It is also possible to bring cases before the Civil Ombudsman and the courts. I also remind you that in 2014, there was a broad majority in Stortinget to limit the right to complain in planning and construction matters, just to avoid unnecessary rematches from the same people at different stages of the case. In my opinion, the review possibilities available today, the consideration of neighbours and others, and I do not see the need to extend the possibility of over-testing further. I agree that there is a need for more effective and targeted supervision. The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation is therefore examining a number of proposals for how we can achieve this. The objective is to clarify when supervision is to be carried out, to clarify the content of supervision and to describe a methodology for the implementation of supervision. The investigation will be completed by the end of 2021, and then we will send the proposal for changes at public consultation. It will provide municipalities, the construction industry and the Stortinget with a good decision-making basis, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee will await this work. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left, have proposed three new decisions. One is that the government is asked to develop guidance material or other measures that enhance the competence of municipalities on the content of impact assessments and the need for their value as a basis for decision-making. I can inform you that a new guide on climate and environment impact assessments was published earlier this year. The government has also recently relaunched a website, planning.no, which contains guidance and tools to help municipalities maintain, among other things. climate adaptation in spatial planning. The majority of the Committee also wants the government to clarify the distribution of responsibilities between the State and the municipality, in order to ensure that risk assessments for race, pace and floods are carried out in a sufficiently thorough manner for the future. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has already prepared its own circular on social security in planning and construction. The circular provides information on what should be included in risk assessments and an overview of responsibilities between different actors. The circular also provides an overview of references to relevant guidelines and guides. I therefore believe that the measures proposed are already well taken. The majority of the Committee also wants the government to assess the legalisation of a notification obligation for all findings of mercury. The proposal for the NVE on the legalisation of natural hazards investigations seems to me to be both good and interesting. The oil and energy minister and I are therefore already in dialogue on how the proposal can and should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1327	I noticed what the Council of State said at the end, namely that he is in dialogue with the Ministry of Oil and Energy to follow up the latest proposal that is being promoted here today. Then it is very strange that the government parties cannot support that proposal here in the Chamber today. Why don't they do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1332	It is such that the notification obligation proposed by the NVE goes beyond just mercury. Mercury is one form of natural hazard that it is absolutely relevant to monitor and report, but there may also be others. So we'll now look at how we can follow up that NVE proposal. In any case, I have no opportunity to vote in this Chamber, but I suppose that is why the representatives of the government parties have not accepted this proposal, because this is something that the government is already looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1338	I then see it as a purely symbolic mark that we cannot get support for this proposal here in the Chamber today. In 2012, the Council of State itself took note of two comments in the examination of the notification on how to deal with the hazards, where the Committee noted that basic studies and hazard investigations owned by private operators should be made available to the public. Furthermore, the Committee referred to a letter from the Minister for Oil and Energy showing that there are a significant number of basic and hazard studies in private ownership, and it was informed that contacts with the main actors would be established with a view to making this material available. The Committee would stress the importance of ensuring good and constructive cooperation with private operators. Then the question is asked to the Council of State: what happened in contact with the private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1347	I was not in government at that time, so how it was followed up in 2012, it is difficult for me to answer. But I fully agree that it is important to have good contact with the private actors that conduct these investigations in many cases, and that the public is well aware of natural hazards in all their forms. So, as I said, this is a job like the oil and energy minister and I now want to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1352	I want to follow up on the last theme of the Council of State. If there is anyone else who makes these assessments, who is responsible for ensuring the professional quality of supervision and the assessments on which they are based? Is that responsibility still one-sided in the municipality, so that they actually have the whole and full responsibility for doing it properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1357	It is a little unclear to me whether the representative Andersen now refers to natural damage, or whether there was supervision in construction matters. It is possible that the representative can clarify it in his next question, which I am absolutely sure she has. The municipalities have a very important responsibility. There is no doubt about it — both in supervisory matters and in planning matters in general in a municipality, naturally enough. Therefore, it is important that we contribute to providing municipalities with the tools they need to do the best possible job. I also referred to my response to planning.no, where municipalities can find guidance and tools to help them, among other things. with regard to climate adaptation. We have also produced a circular covering social security in the planning of construction work, and clear information has also been provided on risk assessment and sharing of responsibilities between actors and references and references to guidance on risk assessment in other disciplines, such as: construction of roads. So the information should be available to the municipalities, and we're trying to accommodate as best we can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1366	It was true in so far as both sides, because there are important balances in such cases that, as I said, can get very serious results. But I would also like to mention what the Council of State has said in a letter to the Committee, where he fears that these proposals will lead to a great deal of change and great practical and economic consequences. Does the Council not see that if good, thorough and quality proceedings are carried out initially, none of these could occur? Nor does the proposal say that these complaints should have suspensive effect. So if it is that you have made thorough assessments and can justify why you have not carried out this supervision in a given case, nothing of what the Council says will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1373	I have no reason to doubt Andersen's intention, and I have no reason to doubt that the representative believes that the representative has drafted a proposal that will prevent my department from pointing out. The professional evaluation of the department is that it is not correct. The intention may be good, but the consequence is that there will be an unnecessary risk of just unnecessary fights from the same people at different stages of the case, and that you will actually open up a new round of complaints on the same issues that have been affected earlier in the process. I think that should be avoided. It also considered that the 2014 Stortinget should be avoided – precisely because there is ample opportunity to promote complaints as is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1378	I still think that there's a lot of confusion about this proposal that makes us end up where we're doing now. This is therefore a proposal that addresses and ensures that the measures adopted must be implemented before any development that may be at risk is implemented. There may be some neighbors who see that it is not being done, but who have no opportunity to complain. Then it's implemented, and it can lead to risks, because what we know now after the last few years, is that construction within areas with, for example, mercury clay and, where it is rhazardous, can trigger race and dangerous events. It is then extremely important that the safeguard measures adopted are actually implemented before the measure is launched. And that's the safeguard mechanism this proposal is supposed to take care of. Doesn't the Council of State see that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1383	Now most people here have the same misreading of the proposal as Andersen's representative pointed out that the undersigned have. So it may be the proposal that is the problem, and not that everyone reads it badly. Because, as I said, I do not doubt the intention, but the result of the proposal as it is written, the wording of it, is difficult to interpret in a way other than that this will not have the effect that the representative is after. For example, the representative believes that: the proposal for a right of appeal does not involve the lodging of administrative appeals in the classical sense. Well, that is not in line with the wording of the proposal, in my opinion. So I believe that there is no doubt that the proposal, as it is designed, implies that it is submitted to an ordinary administrative appeal, also with the possibility of requiring conversion, and that this could be used in a completely different way from the one the representative here uses. There can be no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1388	Of course, I'm going to take up these interpretations with Professor Jan Fridthjof Bernt, who has drafted this legal text, precisely on the basis of some of the events that have occurred, where one sees that this oversight obligation that the municipalities now have is actually not being carried out, and that there is a need to justify why one has not carried out a supervision in each case. That's what this is all about. So once again, I would have to ask the Council of State when to start working on this legislation: is it the case that the Council of State sees the need for mechanisms to ensure that the necessary measures to prevent serious damage, i.e. the measures adopted, are actually implemented? And does the Council of State see that today's legislation is perfect, or must it be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1393	As I said in my statement, we are currently looking at how we can specify the rules on when supervision is to be carried out, in particular with a view to ensuring that supervision is carried out as early as possible, so that we avoid errors and shortcomings, concrete provisions on what supervision should contain, and descriptions of how supervision is to be carried out. In this I do not believe that it is perfect today. So this is a work that we're doing, and I'm glad that a majority in the committee wants to wait for this work. It will be completed during the year, and then sent to the hearing, so this is something that the Storting will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1398	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1406	I fully agree that it is very important to ensure the necessary safety mechanisms that can avert serious accidents at the pace and at the level of race. This is precisely why a major and important work has been undertaken in this area, which is a collaboration between OED and KMD. A lot has happened in recent years. Technology is an increasingly large part of the solutions that can both detect raspour and prevent escape. Sensor, radar and drone technologies are now e.g. use both along our roads and in others postpone areas where people live and travel. In the last few years, insurance measures have been implemented for between 200 and 350 million. kr every one year. In addition, map information is of course an important part of the work. Map of interest for rock jumping, snow, earth, flood and scrap is mainly automatically generated by GIS analysis. A detailed step-by-step approach shall also identify the actual step-by-step hazard to demonstrate whether an area meets the safety requirements. The mouse pointer is quantified and displays a nominal annual probability, in the form of what is called a hazard map. In recent years, a number of good new solutions have also been developed in order to be able to provide insight into spatial data. On a map basis, I can refer to geonorge.no, which came from the Staten Kartsverk, as one example of a solution that provides free access. This may be an important contribution to the transparency and prevention of the construction of razed areas. Good access to and use of spatial information is becoming increasingly important. Therefore, this is also mentioned in the message that is currently being processed at Stortinget, Data as a resource, and I would like to mention that it concerns, among other things. some of the measures it will be working on. The proposers believe that there is a need for tightening. We disagree in this, and we see it as very important that we ensure an effective system and solution that is directed towards the areas where there are errors in experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1421	What we know about damage to buildings and people as a result of race and migration is so serious that we believe this is much more urgent than what it looks like the government has understood. We have also had proposals for representatives asking for increased appropriations for this, asking for systematic monitoring of the need for flood and scaffolding measures across the country, and for which we are also asking for a full plan for financing the necessary measures for flood and rapid response. This proposal, which has been promoted today, is a very small cost compared to the serious costs of such damage. I also feel that there is very strong pressure from very strong political forces, and I understand that we want rapid municipal decision-making processes. It often takes a long time today as well, and there is a great deal of pressure for this to go faster. There are strong development interests that are also important for municipalities, because they want it to be expanded, whether it be housing or other things. So here you're in a cross-press. In that cross-press, the municipalities have far too little competence. This is also well documented in the report after the report. SV has also suggested that we have to have better competence in the municipalities in this, and we will now propose it again in the municipal bill for 2023, because this is absolutely necessary. In total, it will pay to ensure that the municipalities actually fulfil their supervisory obligations, and that they have the competence to have good enough processes to identify where it is safe and how it is safe to build. I think that if you get the skills and the data you need, it won't mean any special delay in these processes either. Here I believe that the majority is too patient in view of the very serious situation that is, with extreme weather, with floods, with pace, as we see in many places. It could be the next week, and then we could be left with an area that could be disastrously destroyed. So here it's necessary to get a much faster work going, so that at least the legal provisions we have to ensure this are followed. That was the whole purpose of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1430	This has become a bit of a funny debate. The government said that the government really supports one of the proposals that we are promoting here today, and that they are working on it, but the government parties have not commented on that proposal at all. It is difficult to understand why we are not receiving support for the proposal today, other than that it is symbolism policy. In the spring of 2012, the government of Stoltenberg pointed out the importance of collecting all information on basic conditions and hazards. In the message How to live with the dangers, the government wrote: ‘Society-based information should be available irrespective of whether it is public or private.’ The Municipal Committee wrote in a comment on the consideration of the big message that they would stress the importance of achieving good and constructive cooperation with the private actors. The newspaper has just published an article online that reveals that there are thousands of reports that are not going to be public. It is quite difficult to understand: is this the way this proposal is being voted down today, but does the government agree with the proposal? Then the question is whether they just want to wait, so that they can promote it as a separate proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1444	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1449	The reason why we are not in favour of this proposal is as simple as the fact that the proposal is unnecessary, because this is a work that is already well under way. Of course, the government takes both race and step in the highest seriousness. We record that the Labour Party in this case draws up a ten-year old message and refers to it. But in recent years, there has been an infinite amount of happening, and we are doing well; the government is working on this. Cooperation between OED and KMD has been established. We want to wait for the result of that work, and we'll see that it won't be too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1456	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1473	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1480	In this proposition, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation proposes amendments to Law 27 June 2008 No. 71 on planning and construction work, planning and building law. The Proposition proposes to amend § 8-1 of the Planning and Building Act to allow the use of land zones in regional spatial plans. Such a home would make it possible to require the production of maps for regional plans and regional planning sites to comply with the current national professional standards for such plans. The proposition also includes proposals for the amendment of § 12-6 of the Planning and Building Act, in order to clarify that in a detailed regulation there can be no definition of the area of concern in which the current regulatory plan shall apply without amendment. Furthermore, the proposal proposes to change the dispensation rights in § 19-2 of the Planning and Building Act, in order to provide the people with a better and clearer wording, which will facilitate the practice of the carers. The proposal implies that it will be explicitly stated in the dispensations that no derogation can be granted if national and regional interests are substantially disregarded. It is important that social developments do not get home from unnecessary red tape. The builders shall meet an efficient and user-friendly public administration that is busy with results and implementation. It is important that this amendment also helps to clarify which matters are of a smaller nature. The administrative authority shall not give priority to spending time on such matters. A joint committee is busy ensuring the correct and good knowledge of the types of cases in which municipalities benefit from exemptions under the Planning and Building Act. This can be found in the Committee's recommendation to B. The recommendation for A is also made by a Joint Committee, with the exception of the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 19-2, where the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to clarify the use of areas of concern. In this regard, the Government Party and the Advance Party have also put forward a proposal that we would like the government to see closer to the system of seat state administrators. With this, I present the matter and take up the proposal that Right is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1501	The representative, Toril Eidsheim, then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1506	Local authorities are increasingly responsible for climate work and natural management. Norway’s international obligations are also reflected in the Planning and Building Act, which aims to promote sustainable development. The planning processes shall be transparent and transparent. We are concerned that municipalities are working well for the climate, conservation of natural diversity and sustainable use of biological resources. As far as possible, clarifications of interest should be addressed at an overall level. It is important to ensure the involvement and involvement of citizens and other interests. It provides good democratic processes with good opportunities to make knowledge-based balances, as this process law states. Climate and nature must be the foundation and framework for all areas where policies are developed. We must stop the wallpaper by nature and call about the rights of all persons. This is in favour of a restrictive approach to exemption. We are concerned that the dispensation access shall be a safety valve, i.e. an instrument that ensures sufficient flexibility in the planning system. At the same time, increased use of dispensations will weaken local democratic processes. The number of exemptions has been at a stable high level over time, and it worries us. In 2017, more than 15 000 exemptions were granted in 352 municipalities. The National Audit Office points out in a study that the practice of objecting has been tightened from 2013 in favour of local freedom of action in municipal spatial planning. The study points out that this practice could lead to a lack of adequate follow-up of national targets to be met by the opposition mechanism. We share the concerns of the National Audit Office. Another study carried out by the Civil Ombudsman in 2021, of all the decisions on exemptions for construction in the coastal zone in three municipalities, showed clear deficiencies in dispensation practices. 85 pst. of which the applications were granted. At the same time, the Civil Ombudsman pointed out that the majority of the decisions were incorrect or missing. The changes in § 19-2 provide a clarification of the law on all-man rights and the beach zone and are a minor intensification of the law that underpins the intention of the planning and building law. The dispensation provision is a can provision, i.e. where the legal requirements are met, a derogation may be granted but no derogation may be granted. We are now given a clearer lead for the State Manager, which means that the law is clearer, and the need for political judgement is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1521	The Planning and Building Act has been a law that has followed me as a politician since 1999, and I have always heard that the Planning and Building Act is a yes law, a law for getting things done. But after listening to the two previous posts, I'm starting to wonder if it's just the Progress Party that thinks it's a yes-law, and if the other party thinks it's a law that's going to be used to stop their people dreaming about building. When I look behind me at ‘Eidsvoll 1814’, it makes me think of 1837, when an introduced presidency law in Norway. The reason one did that was that one was going to leave the state of office where a bureaucrat took the decision, to a government in Norwegian municipalities. We have over 100 years of tradition that there are people elected to make decisions, but when I read this proposition and listen to the articles, I'm afraid one is on the right track to move more power from the populace to different plan selections into an office of the State administrator. It cannot be read in any other way when a decision that a person should not grant a derogation is taken in order not to grant a derogation. Then you turn into local self-government, one takes power away from the populace, and places the power of the state administrator, with a bureaucrat. It's a line that the Progress Party doesn't think is wise and doesn't think is good in relation to the People's Government. One thing that has occurred very many, is inequality and differences between people. Now you're talking about exemptions as an expression. But in fact, dispensations may be the ability of an ordinary citizen, one who doesn't have the economic muscles to create an expensive control plan and run the huge processes that rich people and big companies have – this is going to be weighty. I think it's strange that it's the Progress Party alone that's busy with the little man, that local politicians have to have a tool to help ordinary people realize their buildings, their dreams, without going through complicated planning processes. What you're about to do here is go in the wrong direction. Finally, the Progress Party also has a very good proposal that I had hoped more people could join in, simply to do something about the situation with the State administrator. It is true that when a government administrator complains about something, and the municipality still wants to maintain the decision, it is not the municipal minister who will decide that matter at the end, but a colleague of the government administrator. So what do you think happens? Well, basically, the colleague agrees with the other, and so it goes beyond local democracy. If the proposal of the Progress Party is accepted, there will be more local democracy – and not less. Therefore, I take up our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1532	The representative, Helge André Njåstad, then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1537	It is the municipality that is planning authority. It is the local government that knows best the local conditions, and that knows best what to do to facilitate the development of its municipality. The centre party is occupied by a real local self-government. In order to strengthen local self-government, the right of objection has to be narrowed, not extended. The State administrator must act as a supervisory and review body, and political judgement must be exercised by elected representatives. At the same time, the county must play with the municipalities and not restrict the planning authority of the municipalities. It is important that municipalities have great flexibility and autonomy in planning. There are large local differences both within municipalities and in regions, and local knowledge is required to make important adjustments. This applies, for example: in matters relating to the beach zone, as mentioned in the proposal. The different municipalities have quite different challenges, and it is local knowledge that the local government has, which must be an important premise here. I would like to stress that overmanagement of municipalities may be a barrier to achieving the Storting's goal of settlement throughout the country. The central party therefore disagrees with the fact that they are to be overruled from the county and state, and we do not therefore support the proposed changes to the planning and building law § 19-2, second paragraph, first sentence. I would also like to stress that clarifications of interest must be taken at an overall level. Retail regulation should not be objected to. I'll show you, for example. that Norway’s Bondelag has informed of several cases where the State Manager is now requiring a regulatory plan to build operational buildings in LNFR areas. Thus, in areas regulated for agricultural purposes, the municipality is subject to review by the State Manager. The Planning and Building Act opens up to require a regulatory plan in such cases, but it has never been a practice to do so, and such a change of practice is very unfortunate. It gives rise to a huge impact on individual peasants, weakens municipal autonomy and should not occur. Overall plan work becomes meaningless if municipal decisions within the planning framework are to be reviewed by the State Manager. The Centre supports Subsidy Proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. I would like to make it clear that our intention to support that proposal is to reduce the number of objections, reduce the processing time and get a greater municipal autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1552	SV supports most of this matter, but we have an alternative proposal for a paragraph, and I will come back to it. I want to say that the Planning and Building Act is about how we should manage what is the basis of our lives. There are two existential crises we are facing. One is climate change, and that means a lot how we manage our land and nature. The other is loss of biodiversity and species, and there it is also important how we manage the areas. The major land use interventions in Norway are the result of municipal planning, but also of the use of government plans. There may be very large interventions that contribute to the loss of natural diversity and the disappearance of nature bit by bit, and there is pressure on ecosystems and nature types. I choose to say this because it's not just about saying yes to something here and now, but it's about saying yes to the natural basis that's going to be with us for hundreds and thousands of years to come. That's what we're set to manage now. That is why I am pleased that some of the proposals that were at the hearing were not passed on, and that we have now received a change to which we can largely subscribe, except on one point, and that is the freedom of exemption. We also believe that there is a need for a derogation, but we believe that it needs to be clarified when it can be used and given clearer guidance into this regime. It will then need to be clarified in terms of the development of natural areas or agricultural and cultural landscapes, in order to ensure nature conservation, climate adaptation, outdoor life, soil protection and the right of all persons. We believe that the derogation can only be used in areas that are built and covered by a regulatory plan for construction purposes. This clarification can be made by a clarification in the second paragraph of Section 19-2: «Dispensation should only be given in areas already built up.» We agree with the input that has been made to the Committee of the Association for the Protection of Nature, which believes that municipal land management must ensure more natural values than today, and strengthen plan competence, capacity and natural knowledge in the municipalities. Then we have a proposal in the setting that is probably not very common, but after I started my post with it, we think it is completely wrong that it should be the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation that is responsible for the Planning and Building Act. We believe that that responsibility should lie in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, precisely because it is to preserve the natural values that one must live by after us. I would like to include the suggestions from SV in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1569	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1574	The Planning and Building Act is simply a very important law. It is a balancing law that provides good mechanisms to balance interests with one another, and it is a law of democracy that provides that local authorities are best placed to balance local circumstances and interests, but it is also one of the most important laws for responsible natural and resource management. The municipalities are administrators of the sharp end of our country's natural policy, but here also comes national decisions and national priorities, and that sometimes gives us some pressure. Several of the hearing bodies had high shoulders in view of the excessive scope of the exemption. The proposition is a slightly adjusted version of what was sent to the hearing, and we are satisfied with that. Politics is balance, and here the proposition balances correctly. Local authorities are becoming increasingly responsible for climate and nature management. Norway’s international obligations are also reflected in the Planning and Building Act, which aims to promote sustainable development. The planning processes shall be transparent and transparent. We are concerned that municipalities work well for climate, conservation of natural diversity and sustainable use of biological resources. We are facing a climate crisis, but also a natural crisis where the loss of biotopes for several species is a global problem. Global problems are also local and have their main solution in local, responsible and thoughtful management. The main guides to land use and the balance of interests must be made through good and transparent planning processes, as provided by law. However, a valve in the form of a dispensation access must be provided. Some municipalities may have used the dispensation access incorrectly. Then this is what we have to correct. The freedom of dispensation as such ensures us against unfair and socially unfortunate consequences that could not be seen or anticipated at the time of the adoption of the plan. Again: I am glad that legal adjustments are implemented in a balanced and sensible way. I'd rather say that there's found good center solutions. When even the Progress Party on one side and the SV on the other is not entirely satisfied, it is, as is often the case, an indicator that a good center solution has been found. I think it is important to know how the municipalities actually use their exemption. I am pleased that a joint committee will have such knowledge on the table. It will provide a good basis for further work either with legal adjustments or with more awareness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1588	The government has worked for a long time on simplification and improvement of the Law on Planning and Building. We have taken several steps to strengthen local self-government and reduce the number of objections. The government attaches great importance to local democracy in planning and building matters while safeguarding national and regional interests. It is the task of the municipality to make an overall balance between national, regional and municipal land policies on a case-by-case basis. Land use in the municipality shall initially be managed through spatial plans. The Planning and Building Act is based on the principle that, as a general rule, land changes are to take place through a thorough planning process in the municipality, but in some cases exemptions from the spatial plan may be required because there is no time to make planning or because exceptions are unproblematic. Experience has shown that the derogation provision is difficult to practice for municipalities. It has therefore led to many complaints and conflicts. The Government therefore proposes to amend the exemption provision in order to clarify its content. The change will contribute to more predictable practice and thus fewer conflict-affected issues. By simplifying this provision, it will become clearer which action room the municipalities and the State administrator have. The government's proposal has been adjusted after the matter was heard last year, and the government has, among other things, emphasised the consultation opinion of the local authority sector organisation, KS. The new rules make it clear that the municipality cannot grant a derogation if national and regional interests are significantly infringed. At the same time, the rule that the municipality should not grant a derogation should the regional and state authorities have expressed a negative opinion on the exemption application. This means that the municipalities will be somewhat freer in assessing the judgement of the municipality in an exemption case. The Government also proposes a provision to allow for the division of land zones into regional levels. We propose clarification in the law that the area of account where the applicable regulatory plan is to apply unchanged cannot be used in detail regulation. The government also proposes some legal technical changes to the Matrikkel Act. I am pleased that a majority of committee members support the proposals. These changes will contribute to improvements for users of the Law on Planning and Buildings and the Law on Law on Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1604	I thought to hang myself up a little bit in Section 19-2 and the change that happens in connection with it. Where today's word is "should not" a word, a word now goes "can't" if it's "substantially neglected". What I'm wondering is who decides what is a regional and national interest. Is there anything that the municipality can assess, or does the State administrator decide on its own, which is a national interest?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1609	It is fairly clear what national and regional interests are, and it is also clear from the expectations of the state for the planning work in the municipalities, so there should be no particular doubt as to what expectations and interests we are talking about here. This could be done, for example, by: have regard to the provision of food land.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1614	I did not now get an answer to the direct question as to whether this is something the municipalities can understand, or whether it is determined by the custodian of national interests. Governmental councils refer to the keyword ‘mad soil’. Another typical keyword is the 'beach zone', which is often a theme. Will it say that in matters where the food soil is involved, or the beach area is involved, the municipality no longer has authority to grant exemptions, i.e. that, after the change in the law that the Storing will make today, a decision is simply not possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1619	The text as it was reads: ‘Assessing whether exemptions are to be granted from plans, particular attention shall be paid to the state and regional framework and objectives. Nor should the municipality derogate from plans, the provisions of the Act on Plans and the prohibition in Sections 1 to 8 where a directly concerned State or regional authority has expressed a negative opinion on the exemption request.» Then you have added, as a substitute for this: ‘Dispensation may not be granted if the reasons behind the provision to which it is exempted, the reasons for the provision of the law’s purpose or national or regional interests, are significantly disregarded.’; There will be an assessment of what is ‘substantially neglected’ in this context, but the fact that it is also said that it does not hold that State and regional authorities have expressed a negative opinion in order to reject a derogation gives the municipality some greater discretion to assess these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1634	I don't get any wiser for every time I ask, so it's almost so I should have sat down and not asked any more. For every time I get an answer, I get more confused, and I think the local government sector will be too. However, I want to ask you directly about the last one, because then one said that there would be a bigger assessment in the municipality. This means that the municipality should evaluate what is ‘essential’, and that means that the State administrator cannot dismiss a matter. It is the local assessment that allows a derogation to be granted and a separate assessment to be made, and the administration must deal with it. So we can be happy that the new wording will not deter things from being treated at all. However, due to the fact that the law says ‘should not’, it is possible for municipalities to make their judgements and that the cases are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1639	Of course, the municipality has to make its assessments, but it is not such that the municipalities alone can assess whether a government interest is being significantly disregarded. Then the municipality could say that no, the leaders of the state in relation to important national interests do not apply to us, because here we have assessed it differently. I can't. Unlike the one with which the representative started his speech, I believe that the changes we are now making will help clarify the legislation, and that it will once again contribute to fewer conflicts. It has to be a goal in itself. In addition, a negative opinion of regional and national authorities would no longer be sufficient to override an exemption application.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1644	So that means that the municipalities can make decisions, and then the State administrator has to decide on the exemption decision of the municipality. The new paragraph cannot be used to say that the State administrator has opposed this and said that it is national interest, so there is no reason to grant a derogation. Then I understand correctly – that one will deal with the matter. If a municipality grants a derogation, it will be treated normally. He doesn't want to be cut off just because the law says that one shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1649	I am not quite sure if I understood what the representative asked for, but I think it is interesting and worth noting that the Progress Party has very different confidence in the municipalities depending on what kind of case we are talking about. It is not that long since we were in this room and the representative had no confidence that the municipalities themselves can assess which flag they are to hang on the flag bar of a public building, but the representative believes that it is up to the municipality to assess what is the state's interests at any time. We also recently had a case here in the Chamber about the local authorities' ability to conduct foreign policy. That's not what the Progress Party wants. However, that municipalities should take over the role of state administrators and that the State administrator should be put down, the Progress Party believes is a good idea. I notice that it is very much either – or what the Progress Party believes about the autonomy of the municipalities, and how much trust we should have in the local authorities' ability to make good decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1654	It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the Progress Party has great confidence in local democracy when it comes to planning and building legislation, because it thinks it is naturally a municipality. They know best what's closest. It should be for the government to pursue foreign policy, and it should in fact be for the nation to determine the nature of the national flag and the rules for public flags. That's quite correct. But I thought it would be possible to answer the direct question: can the state administrators dismiss waiver cases with the new law secret, or do they have to deal with all the cases? That's actually what's at the heart of the question. Does the State administrator now have the possibility to say that it is not appropriate to deal with this matter, or is it such that a person can still take a decision on the dispensation decisions that the municipalities make, even in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1662	The aim of this amendment is to make it clear to both the municipality and the State administrator how the legislation is to be implemented, so that we do not get into a situation where there is conflict and complaints. This means that it is now obvious that if a case is contrary to national and regional interests and the interests are significantly affected, there is no intention either to promote an exemption case. Thus, everything is at the heart of fewer conflicts and faster and more flexible treatment, including less bureaucracy and greater efficiency. That must be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1667	That's the line change. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1674	I was a little bit inside of the line change that the beach sona is part of this challenge. Norway is lucky and has the world's second longest beach zone, just turned off Canada. That means we have a huge resource that a lot of people want to make use of. Very much of the coastal zone and strip we have is not an open-air area suitable for recreation, but it is unobtrusive and useless, unless it is convenient. Therefore, we believe that it is entirely possible to use the beach zone to secure access to people by making arrangements. In fact, if a beach sole is fixed, it opens too many of it than by doing nothing. Building a nudge or a floating bridge or using it, opening one for family and friends, opening one for children to learn how to sympathize and learn how to sail, etc., so it's a good thing to use the beach sona. For this reason, we want municipalities to be able to plan and do things in beach areas, as well as to grant exemptions where they think it makes sense. As I said in my main post, it is a class distinction that ordinary people who own a property and want to take action will no longer be allowed to apply for a derogation to do the action, but must be willing to create a regulatory plan of several hundred thousand. There's going to be a big difference between ordinary people and rich people and business, so we don't think it's the right policy, to sneak into the possibility of a derogation. A dispensation is also a thorough process in the community, where citizens search and the municipality make an assessment, neighbors are given the opportunity to comment, and there is a democratic process. When everything is going to go into the plan track, there's going to be a class distinction between those who have the economy to do a plan process, and those who may not have it. It is not possible to use the same amount of effort to plan and regulate a building as it actually does to build a building. Hence, our commitment to this matter is great. We're on a team of people. There are very many Progress Party politicians who have been politicians precisely because they have opposed the strong bureaucracy either at County, state or municipality. We're busy helping ordinary people with common challenges. So this case is very important to us, and so we don't want to go back to the government, where the governors have to decide more and local democracy less. It should be contrary to the idea that local democracy should decide more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1683	First, I just want to agree that the Planning and Building Act is a yes law, as the Progress Party called for. It's a yes-law that's supposed to keep the balance in a resilient social development for the benefit of society. In this case, the Government Party and the Advance Party have put forward a joint proposal that we want the government to see closer to the system of sit-down state administrators. Why are we doing this? Well, because we see that complaints where the state administrator himself is complaining or otherwise party to the case, often only lead to time- and resource-demanding treatment without any added value. So we want the government to look closer to how to find a more reasonable way to deal with these things. Good plans are important. Municipalities that have done a thorough plan work help to make it easier for their inhabitants, for their developers and for the administration. In addition to this, we see from the debate here today that most people believe that the exemption is important, but a large amount of exemptions contribute to the impossibility of increasing the time spent by all parties, and should therefore be right to the exceptions. The government is proposing these changes to make it easier to grant exemptions in cases that do not have a significant national and regional character. The Ministry also makes it clear that matters of a minor nature which are not of national and regional character are not to be dealt with by government administrators. It is therefore important that, in the follow-up to this amendment, the Ministry ensures that the change is made in accordance with the intention. The clarity of this legislative change should help to avoid misunderstandings and provide a more effective, prudent and resilient development of society. With this, I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1696	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1713	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1730	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1737	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. This is a matter that I have been happy to get to treatment in Stortinget. The interpretative law has its background in the Granavolden platform, and for the first time we get a law that brings together the interpretation provisions in the public sector. The public sector's responsibility for using interpreters is now established, qualifications are required, professional secrecy and flexibility rules are promoted, and this will, in some cases, involve a high level of quality. The Interpreting Act will help to strengthen communication between poor Norwegian immigrants and the public. It is important to safeguard the rights of users, and it is a prerequisite for public success in providing good and sound services to the whole of society, and with this law we strengthen confidence between citizens and administrations. In 2019, over 60 pst. of the missions of unqualified interpreters and it is serious for Norway’s reputation as a country with strong democratic traditions and strong legal protection. Many immigrants come from countries where trust in the public is rightly low, and then it all means being able to rely on your own interpreter. Fortunately, the new law makes it an obligation for public bodies to use qualified interpreters when necessary to ensure legal certainty. The same applies to the provision of sound health care and other public services. Bad interpreting services can result in serious errors, both in everyday life and in important situations. It may lead to a late diagnosis of life-threatening diseases or a breach of fundamental rights. The new interpretative law is not just a good integration tool for immigrants and residents with a different language background. I am pleased that it will now also include sign language and other interpretation of public bodies' communication with deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind, for example. tactile interpretation and interpreting. It's important to create a more inclusive society. In the public sector, we spent 843 million in 2019. kr for interpreting services, and that is a significant amount. Much was spent on assignments with unqualified interpreters. The majority of the Committee points out that the introduction of requirements for the use of qualified interpreters will require increased government budget appropriations, but we believe that this is right, and we welcome the government's return to the Stortinget with proposals for appropriations to cover the costs of the interpretative law in the future state budget. On this basis, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1754	Good communication is a prerequisite for public success in providing good and sound services to the whole of society. Where language barriers exist, the organisation of information through interpreters will be essential to reach sections of the population who cannot communicate in Norwegian. The aim of the bill is to bring together rules on interpretation in the public sector. There is today an unclear and fragmented legislation on the use of interpreters in the public sector. Several hearing bodies are concerned that the inclusion of deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind people in the interpretative law may lead to a risk of the funding model for interpretation for this group and a deterioration in the rights in the long term. Today, the right to benefits to interpreters for deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind people in working and daily life is governed by the Law on Social Security, and it is Nav who has financial responsibility in cases where public bodies are not obliged to use interpreters under other legislation. In some cases, the new interpretative law will extend the obligation of other agencies to use interpreters in relation to the law in force, in which case this will result in the public body and not the hub having financial responsibilities. We would stress that it is assumed that the inclusion of interpretation for deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind people in the interpretative law does not result in impaired rights for this group by making it unclear which agencies have the financial responsibility for interpreting services. The right to benefits to interpreters for deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind persons under the People's Security Act and the availability of interpreting services for this group must not be impaired by the fact that they are now covered by the new interpretative law. We expect the government to take the necessary steps to ensure this, including providing clear guidelines on financial responsibilities towards the public sector in question. We support the proposal to take the ban on using children as interpreters. Children do not have interpretative competence, and children who are set to interpret or disseminate information may be placed in difficult role conflicts. This also applies in public bodies other than the administrative bodies. Finally, the requirement for a qualified interpreter is cost-effective. We therefore assume that there is a budgetary coverage before the requirements that have financial implications can enter into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1767	The intention to put in place a comprehensive law for interpreting services is good, and it basically supports the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that good communication is very important, as the majority also believe, but we also focus on the importance of helping immigrants who want to live in Norway learn the language as soon as possible, and then we need some incentives to do so. It also has a cost-effective question. In 2019 it is estimated that the public spent 850 million. kr on interpreting services. There's a lot of money. With this law, it is estimated that over an eight-year period it will amount to another 459 million. kr. This means that the costs of interpreting services will only increase from an already cloudy level. It is very good in the interpretative law that the Progress Party can support, but what it lacks is limitations that can help stimulate people to learn Norwegian more quickly, and, of course, that those who have money for it pay for it. If we don't impose any restrictions based on what it's added up to here, I'm afraid we're giving completely wrong signals. I know of several cases where people have lived both 10 and 15 years in Norway and still need an interpreter. Then some signals must be given to correct it. In the past, the Progress Party has put forward proposals in this Chamber to impose restrictions, which do not need to be absolute, because it is clear that there are different needs. We have a lot of experience from other types of legislation in laying down guidelines and laws so that they can meet different needs, with exemption schemes and support schemes, but if, as a general rule, it was said to be a trade mark after five years, it would not have been an unreasonable claim. That is why the Progress Party is promoting two proposals in this matter. It is about sending the case back to a new assessment to mitigate the costs, introduce self-payment to a much greater extent and restrict the right to free interpreters for far more than those who have it today. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1782	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1787	Good communication is a prerequisite for public success in providing good and sound services to all. Where language barriers exist, the organisation of information through interpreters will be essential to reach sections of the population who cannot communicate in Norwegian. The aim of the bill is to bring together rules on interpretation in the public sector. There is today an unclear and fragmented legislation on the use of interpreters in the public sector. Public sector interpretation is characterised by under-use, lack of quality requirements for interpreters, lack of qualified interpreters and lack of ordering procedures for interpreters. Another challenge is low confidence in the use of interpreters in the public sector. This may include, inter alia: due to the extensive use of unqualified interpreters and the non-compliance with the requirement of stability and professional secrecy in the interpretative sector. The party to the centre considers that it is unreasonable to require the individual to exercise a partial right in cases where the public body has to use an interpreter for the exercise of central rights and for the proper provision of assistance and services. We will stress the importance of this law ensuring legal certainty for vulnerable groups. It's e.g. very unfortunate if family members and relatives are used as interpreters. Several hearing bodies are concerned that the inclusion of deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind in the interpretative law may lead to a risk of the funding model for interpretation for this group and a deterioration in the rights in the long term. Today, the right to benefits to interpreters for deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind people in working and daily life is governed by the Law on People's Rights. Nav is responsible for financing cases where public bodies are not obliged to use interpreters under other legislation. In some cases, the new interpretative law will extend the obligation of other agencies to use interpreters under the applicable law. In that case, it would lead to the public body, not Nav, having financial responsibility. The centre party would stress that it is assumed that the inclusion of deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind into the interpretative law should not result in impaired rights for this group, by making it too unclear which establishments have financial responsibilities. The right to benefits to interpreters for deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind persons under the People's Security Act, and the availability of interpreting services for this group, must not be impaired. Nav must keep the intermediary role that they have today. At the Ministry's hearing on the matter, the merger took place, inter alia: made the impression that interpreting training for Sami interpreters should be established at the Sami university, with the possibility of training in both simultaneous interpretation and common interpretation, as well as a high focus on terminology. This has previously been mentioned in NOU 2014: 8. That is why we are promoting proposals along with several other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1812	The law of interpreters is a very good start. We are not in the target, but I would like to thank the government for having brought this law. This was very good. But SV has some points of view and some suggestions we want to make. The first is that we think it should be an individual right to interpretation. We believe that this strengthens legal certainty, also because it is then possible to complain about the non-use of interpreters. The United Nations Committee on Racial Discrimination has recommended that the Norwegian authorities strengthen the law by legislating the right to interpret in the case of public services. So we are promoting that proposal. SV also has a different view on fees. With this law providing interpreters, the starting point is the challenges of interpreters and that it stands in the way of good communication. It is then a little difficult to see that not understanding all the information given in advance could lead to a fee. We believe that this may be the case, but not, for example. that you have not met up for the first time, because this may be due to some misunderstandings – simply because you have not received an interpreter. We believe that this should be postponed, either at time. two or three. We are also fully aware that it is necessary to ensure that the scarce interpretative resources are used effectively, but we believe that we need to look at the experience of the scheme before opening fees for missing attendance. Education: We've received recordings, among others. from OsloMet, Faculty of Teacher Education and International Studies, which points out that ‘it is possible to facilitate the inclusion of sign language interpreters in category D after obtaining 30 credits in the study Sign Language and Interpretation’. That's important, because these colleges stress that you also have to learn interpretation, not just sign language. Today, the requirement for employment as a sign language interpreter has been accepted as a sign language Bachelor’s degree and interpretation equivalent to Category B of the national interpretation register. It is important because it is unfortunate that the new interpretative law should mean that in practice it can be used as a sign language interpreter with a lower level of education. Finally, the concern that has been related to particular Nav, or that there will be funding conflicts with deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind in the interpretative law, because there is a difference between rules and realities in this area today. I'll get back to it. But I'm dealing with the proposal we have in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1825	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1830	Today, public sector interpretation is characterised by under-use, lack of quality requirements for interpreters, lack of qualified interpreters and lack of ordering practices among interpreters. Low confidence in the use of interpreters in the public sector is also reported. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is wise to introduce a separate law on public bodies' responsibilities for using interpreters. By introducing a law, key provisions may be brought together and easily accessible to interpreters. The law will contribute to increased legal certainty and sound assistance by setting a professionally sound standard. An interpretative law is inclusive and provides a law that ensures good communication also for those of us who have challenges to be understood in the language they speak, whether it is Urdu, Arabic or simply a sign language from another country. Communication is simply a prerequisite for public success in providing good services to the whole of society. By adopting this law today, we are building up language barriers and telling all Norwegians that as a society we want to include the entire population. Today, we're not just adopting a law; we're giving responsibility and increased rights. I notice that it is a desire to determine the right to an individual right to an interpreter. To that I would say that there are many challenges associated with designing this in a separate right clause. The need for interpreters will always be situational and will change over time. Therefore, it would be challenging to assess when language skills are at such a level that a right lapses. The Christian People's Party believes that the law itself gives increased rights, and supports this rather than determining this right. We believe that such a law exists today, such a right provision will result in an increase in the use of resources in appeal proceedings for public bodies. The Christian People's Party is proud to be part of a government that presents Norway's first interpretative law. By bringing together the rules on public sector interpretation while making good additions, we contribute to increased legal certainty and sound assistance to those concerned. The Christian People's Party stands behind the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1844	Today’s regulation of interpreters is fragmented and unclear, and it has also led – as many people have pointed out – to the fact that interpreting is characterised by under-use, lack of quality requirements, and not least that we have too few qualified interpreters. In 2019 it was as much as 62 pst. of all interpretative tasks carried out by unqualified interpreters, and this may have significant consequences for the individual. In the worst cases, serious errors may occur, including: for late diagnosis of life-threatening diseases or infringement of fundamental rights. It may also be unclear which rules on professional secrecy and flexibility apply to interpreters. We have seen several events in which interpreters have acted in a way that weakens confidence in both the interpreting profession and the public sector. This is why the government is now following up the Granavolden platform and promoting proposals for a completely new interpretative law. The main objective of the law is to clarify the responsibility of public bodies for using interpreters and contributing to a quality reform in the field of interpreters. The law should also help to provide the public with access to interpreters when necessary. I propose that the interpretative law should apply to public bodies that order and use interpreters. The law shall also apply to private legal entities providing services on behalf of a public body, as well as private kindergartens and schools. The interpretation law shall apply to interpretation into and from Norwegian, including interpretation between Norwegian and Norwegian sign languages. It became clear, after consultation and dialogue with organisations in the field, that there was no desire to restrict itself to sign language, for example. I stress that the proposal does not restrict the rights to interpret services under the People's Security Act for persons with hearing impairment or combined hearing and visual impairment. I propose that the interpretative law regulate public bodies' responsibilities for using interpreters. The legislative proposal also requires the use of qualified interpreters where the use of interpreters is necessary to ensure legal certainty or to provide sound assistance and service. The interpretation profession is a profession that requires competence and precision, and a quality requirement can lead to better services and increased legal certainty as well as increased confidence in both interpreters and public bodies. As of today, there are not enough qualified interpreters to fully meet the requirement to use qualified interpreters. That is why we are proposing a derogation from the requirement for a transitional period of five years. We will continue to work to qualify interpreters, and if necessary we will extend that transition period. I suggest that public bodies should be able to choose between using a show interpretation or remote interpretation. When remote interpretation is used, the proposal requires public bodies to ensure adequate technical solutions, the training of employees and the protection of privacy. Through the legislative proposal, I would also like to clarify the requirements for the role and professional performance of the interpreter. I propose a requirement for good interpretation, flexibility and professional secrecy. I also propose a number of other rules on interpretation in the public sector, including: rules on police certification, requirements for guidelines for ordering interpreters and rules on the use of fees in case of non-visitation, as well as moving the ban on the use of children as interpreters from the administrative law to the interpretative law. In this way, rules on interpretation in the public sector are brought together in a separate interpretative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1868	The centre party is concerned that the inclusion of deaf, hearing-impaired and deaf-blind in the interpretative law should not weaken their rights in the long term. As I understood the statements of the Council of State, we very much agree on that. What will the Council of State do to prevent this from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1873	I have also noticed these concerns and will once again assure you that the proposal will not weaken the rights of this group. Under the applicable rules, Nav has the financial responsibility if the performance does not fall under other legislation. This means that it is the individual sector, rather than the Nav, that has the financial responsibility when it is necessary to use sign language interpreters after, for example, the rules of the Administrative Act. The general obligation to use interpreters on the basis of the proposal would be a long way to go clarifying what can be derived from the administrative law and from non-statutory administrative law. The situation today is also that there may be disagreement between Nav and the public body on who has the financial responsibility. The new law is not a factor contributing to the risk of such disagreement. In any case, a disagreement on the financial liability will not affect the individual who needs sign language interpretation. Nav is responsible for the provision of interpretative services, even when other sectors have financial responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1880	I would first like to say that I am very pleased that this law has come, and it is very good here. But what I'm very concerned about is some of the things the Council said in its article, namely that there's a lack of interpreters, and that it's very important that the interpreters who are trained provide high quality. Then I want to review what I said about the sign language interpreters. It's important not only that you have learned the sign language, but that you have also learned to interpret, because these are complementary, and it's not useful to have learned one, but not the other. I want to ask the Council of State how she intends to follow up on the fact that there is actually a lack of interpreters – by looking at how to scale up the capacity of interpreters, so that we get the necessary interpreters in several areas – and perhaps especially related to the field of sign language interpretation and how to ensure that only those who can actually interpret are the ones who are being interpreted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1887	Of course, the representative points to a very central challenge. If we had enough qualified interpreters, we would have, for example, not provided for a transitional period of five years, because we believe that these requirements are so important that they should actually apply from day one. We know that this requirement could lead to a lack of interpreters, and that is why, since the proposal was being consulted, we have launched the initiative to obtain qualified interpreters. In addition, many of today's qualified interpreters have signaled that they want to work more, and thus have a capacity that can be better used. Of course, if it turns out that we will face challenges, we can either extend the period or put in place new measures to strengthen interpreter training. OsloMet has important offers. Educational services have also been established at the Western Higher Education School, where interpreters can take the subject of ‘Public Sector Interpreting’ and qualify for category D in the National Interpreting Register. It is also clear that now that we are making these demands, it will make it more attractive for more people actually to be interpreters and qualify for it. So we have great faith that we're going to be able to meet the requirement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1898	I really hope the Council of State is right about that, but I don't think it's going to get off the hook, and I think it's going to be very important to follow the quality of the interpreting work that's actually done. I would like to refer to another point in this draft interpretative law, and that is the proposal for a fee in the event of a lack of attendance. I get the reason for that, but the whole reason why I need an interpreter is that you actually don't necessarily understand everything you're asked for, for example. in meeting the public or what situation it might now be. Does the Council not see that it may be a bit unreasonable to charge for a misunderstanding that may have occurred just because you need an interpreter and have not received it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1907	First of all, I would like to stress that this proposal gives public bodies the right to charge, not an obligation. This means that they themselves can make an assessment of whether it is appropriate or not. We shall lay down a framework for the use of this fee in regulations. This applies, inter alia, to: the maximum amount and, where the representative was in possession, the conditions under which the individual must be informed in advance of the fact that an interpreter has been ordered, that it is required to attend and that a fee may be paid. If those conditions are not met, it must also be clear that a fee cannot be levied either. I see that there is definitely consideration for and against such an opportunity to charge a fee. That is why we have come to the solution with the possibility of charging and not the requirement of charging. This may suggest that more actually meet up to scheduled conversations and that we reduce public money spending that does not lead to any better services, but there will be a great difference between different sectors how topical it is to use this as an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1916	The change of reply has changed, and several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The size then takes a break to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1931	The size goes to voting and starts with the case no. 12-17 from yesterday, Agenda No. Ninety-two.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1943	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Geir Adelsten Iversen, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposal No 3, from Geir Adelsten Iversen on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 4–6, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government requests that shrimp industry enterprises which have been granted the right to own shrimp trawl vessels may, upon application, be granted cod trawl rights equivalent to 1,5 quota units of cod/shish per shrimp trawl licence granted. The quotas are regulated within the cod trawl group. This shall be an additional contribution to ensuring a basis for the activation of the rights granted to shrimps and to ensuring a raw material basis for the future operation and development of a living and forward-looking shrimp industry in Norway.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up specific concession terms which ensure that the cod concessions are not negotiable, that the white fish raw material from the trawls is subject to processing obligations in Norway and that the concessions are initially limited by a period of 15 years, but with the right to be extended under certain conditions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1979	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to investigate and propose measures aimed at increasing efforts in the harvesting of sustainable and under-utilised fisheries resources in Norway’s areas of interest. The shrimp stock in the Barents Sea and at Svalbard is such a resource.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e1996	As a result of the vote on proposal No. 3 deletes proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, as it is an identical proposal. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests that an activity requirement be met by the Government for vessels with shrimp trawls’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking how the charging system can be used to stimulate the exploitation of shrimps and other less profitable species by vessels authorised to shrimp.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2027	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2046	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Cecilie Myrseth on behalf of the Workers' Party the proposals No 2–5, from Geir Adelsten Iversen on behalf of the Centre Party proposal No 6, from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 7 and 8, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible with a case in which cod trawl concessions with an offer and processing obligation are wound up and where the associated cod and hake quotas are re-allocated to the coastal fleet. The new allowances shall be non-negotiable and bound to the State or region. The re-allocation of allowances should take a maximum of 15 to 30 years, in line with the commitment Commission’s determination that it is the duration of today’s trawl concessions.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2078	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 8 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a new quota notification with a change in the allocation of the resource base, a significant strengthening of traditional coastal fleets and open groups, and measures providing significantly better opportunities for women and young people to establish themselves as self-employed fishermen.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘In order to prevent a large transfer of fishing quotas to large coastal and sea-going fleets, the Stortinget asks the Government to propose a new grouping and assume that quota quantities remain in the original groups. The original distribution of the Finnland model by vessel size and balance shall be ensured to the greatest extent possible.’» The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2102	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-5, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that universal trawls actually deliver fish to the eligible fishing communities in line with the intention of the obligation system. The option would be, if not within two years, to return allowances from these companies to the coastal fleet.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to decide and propose a quota move mechanism by up to 20 per cent subtraction from the quota catch exported unprocessed to the foreign processing industry’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make conditional upon the delivery of mandatory catches fresh or frozen to the eligible purchaser at fixed minimum prices adjusted for average first-hand prices of equivalent fresh landings in the same region.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2131	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to ensure that the maritime resource laws and the Participant Act’s regional policy intentions are implemented in practice and to make the necessary proposals to ensure this.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2149	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a new and up-to-date quota notification to help build local communities across the coast, ensure a fair distribution of resources and secure future-oriented jobs. The notification shall be drawn up in close dialogue with the industry.’;» Red has announced support for the proposal. The Greens have announced subsidized aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2161	SV shall support it subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2166	The centre party also supports subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2171	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2190	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2209	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Prop. 171 S is returned to the government.» [[2020-2021]] Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2233	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2259	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2278	During the debate, Terje Aasland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to establish a pilot programme for Industry 4.0 in the context of the State budget for 2022. The Programme shall ensure simplified and comprehensive access to new and existing instruments, enhance the investment capacity of new technologies and enhance the competence of industry, inter alia, with a focus on lifelong learning.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Green Party has announced its support for the vote. The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2313	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 5 and 6, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to use the state ownership of industrial companies as Equinor to ensure that quality, environment and consideration of Norwegian jobs weigh more heavily on purchasing policy, so that these companies contribute more to ensuring the activity and jobs of Norwegian shipyards and other suppliers’ industries. The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2342	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe guidelines and other instruments that can be used by county councils to ensure increased activity and employment in Norway in the transition to zero-emission speedboats.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2359	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe guidelines and other instruments that can be used by county municipalities to ensure increased activity and employment in Norway in the transition to zero-emission ferries.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2383	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the resources allocated to crisis-packaging are used in accordance with the Stortingen’s assumption that it will increase activity and employment in Norway.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up guidelines for the future allocation of aid schemes, subsidies, emergency packages and the like, ensuring that the appropriations increase activity and employment in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to investigate and propose to amend the law on public acquisitions, so that public procurement generally increases activity and employment in Norway.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2412	Then Stortinget turns to voting in case No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2424	A total of 18 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-5, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 6, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 7, from Sveinung Stenland on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 8, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 10 and 19, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party proposal No 11, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 12 and 13, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 14-17, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party proposal No 18, from the Bears of the Moxnes on behalf of the Red Proposal No. 19 has changed during the debate. Since this is a relatively long legislative proposal, the President will not read the whole proposal, as usual practice is, but only refer to the amended part of the proposal. This is the following amendment under I § 37k, which now reads: ‘the meeting of the Advisory Unit for Post-Convocation Drugs, provided that the conviction relates to the use, acquisition, possession or storage of drugs for its own use in accordance with Section 231 or the Medical Act § 31 cf. Paragraph 24, first paragraph, or’ There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an independent and wide-ranging sample of relevant professional competence to examine the consequences of the increased use of punishment and other coercive measures against drug addicts and other drug users from 1984 to today.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2481	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–17, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that minors who are required to meet with the municipal drug counselling unit are assigned two meetings. The first meeting shall be with the minor and the unit. The second meeting shall be with parents or others with parental responsibility, the minor and the unit. Parents or others with parental responsibility shall not be connected until the child has met the unit and if it is safe for the child.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government, where mandatory attendance is proposed to the municipal drug advisory unit, to do so without charging for a lack of attendance at the same time. The municipal advisory unit on drug issues shall work out-of-office in the event of a breach of the obligation to meet.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative proposals to ensure that drug users are prevented from reporting and criminal prosecution for the use and possession of illicit drugs when they contact the authorities for help to themselves or others.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an independent policy environment to address the use of coercive substances in drugs matters.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2515	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider extending the regime of removing comments in the reaction register after a certain number of years to young people over 18 years of age.’; Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that current practices, where virtually no zones are unconditionally punishable for the use and lesser possession of drugs, continue.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2537	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that addicts who process fines are given a choice between fines, fines or treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2553	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the blocking of responses to drug use and possession for its own use after three years, given that no more criminal offences have been recorded during the period in question, has retroactive effect.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2570	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose the necessary changes to the law to ensure decriminalisation of the use and possession of minor user doses for heavy drug addicts, so that this group meets with good health care and follow-up rather than criminal reactions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2585	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate the use and impact of schemes with drug contracts and other types of obligatory agreements for young people’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the obligation of healthcare professionals to provide information related to patients’ drug use must be based on a concrete assessment, not whether the drug is legal or not.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2609	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Left and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘I Law No. 22 May 1981 No. 25 on the procedure of criminal proceedings is amended as follows: Paragraph 69 of the fourth paragraph is replaced by the following: Where criminal offences are considered to be proven, the prosecution authority may refrain from indicting the acquisition, possession or storage of drugs for its own use exceeding the quantitative limits for the freedom of punishment determined in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 31 of the Medicines Act and the third paragraph of Section 231 of the Criminal Code. The waiver of charges may be granted on the condition that the defendant does not commit a new criminal offence during a probationary period and that the purpose is to meet after the convocation of the Advisory Unit for Drug Matters, cf. the first paragraph of point (k). The rules of the second paragraph and the second and third sentences of the third subparagraph apply mutatis mutandis. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for the use of the exemption under this provision. II In Law No. 4 December 1992 132 on medicinal products, etc. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 31, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Acquisition, possession and use of doping agents, cf. Paragraph 24a, first paragraph, is penalised by fines or imprisonment up to 6 months, or both. Paragraph 31 shall be replaced by the following: Penalties referred to in the first subparagraph shall not apply to infringements of the provisions given in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 22 or to infringements of Section 24 in the case of personal use of drugs or the acquisition or possession of drugs for personal use. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for impunity under this provision. III In Act No. 4 August 1995 No. 53 on police: Paragraph 9(a) is added as follows: § 9 a Person, object or place of storage visit The police may search the person, subject matter or place of storage, where the person is likely to hold a substance which is considered to be a drug under the terms of Section 22 of the Medicines Act. Without the consent of the person, a visit to this section may only be made by decision of the chief of police or of the authorised person. If it is to be assumed that the purpose of the visit will be wasted upon delay, the decision may be taken by the on-site police. Details of the case and the scope of the visit shall be provided. The results of the visit shall be recorded as soon as possible. The police can seize and annihilate drugs held without legal access. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on visits and seizures in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph. Paragraph 9(b) is added as follows: § 9 b Testing of drug influences The police may carry out a specific investigation into the existence of signs and symptoms of the influence of a substance which, under the rules of Section 22 of the Medicines Act, is to be regarded as a drug, when the person appears to be affected by such a substance and there are reasonable grounds for confirming or cancelling it. If the police consider that the person is likely to be affected by drugs, they shall be offered to carry out preliminary tests as referred to in the first paragraph of Section 22a of the Road Traffic Act or to be prepared for breath tests, blood tests, saliva tests and clinical medical examinations as referred to in the second paragraph of Section 22 of the Road Traffic Act, in order to seek to determine or remove the influence. The same applies if the police consider it likely that the person has used drugs, and testing after the first sentence is suitable for detecting previous use. Test, test or examination after the first and second sentence is carried out by personnel as specified in the third paragraph of Section 22a of the Road Traffic Act. Information on the implementation and outcome of measures following the paragraph shall be recorded as soon as possible. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the decision and implementation of measures under the paragraph. Paragraph 9(c) is added as follows: Section 9(c) Meetings of the Advisory Unit for Drugs The police may instruct a person to meet with an advisory unit on drug matters in the municipality when it is likely that the person has used, or tried to use, a substance which is considered to be a drug, or that the person has acquired, or attempted to acquire, or hold, or has held, such a substance for his own use, according to the rules of the Act on Medicinal Products, Section 22. Police may also require parents or others with parental responsibility for a person under the age of 18 who is required to attend under this provision to meet with the drug advisory unit. Decisions concerning the meeting obligation of an advisory unit shall be based. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on decisions taken pursuant to this provision, the notification of the decision, the transmission of the decision to the municipal advisory body and the processing of information by the police in such cases. Paragraph 30, second paragraph, is replaced by the following: Penalty after first paragraph no. 1 shall not apply to failure to comply with obligations imposed in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 9(c). IV In Law 2 July 2004 No. 64 on the system of drug user rooms is amended as follows: Paragraph 4, first paragraph, is deleted. VT In Law 20 May 2005 No 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: Paragraph 37, first paragraph, points (j) and (k) are replaced by the following: (j) carry out youth follow-up in the Council of Conflict for a period of up to one year, provided that the convictions were between 15 and 18 years of age at the time of action, that the case is suitable for such proceedings and that there is consent from convictions and convictions, if any; (k) the meeting of the Advisory Unit for Drug Matters following the convocation, provided that the conviction relates to the acquisition, possession or storage of drugs for its own use in criminal matters exceeding the quantitative limits for impunity determined in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Section 31 of the Medicines Act and the third paragraph of Section 231 of the Criminal Act; or The current first paragraph, letter k, becomes the first paragraph, new letter l. Paragraph 53, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: If the offender was under 18 years of age at the time of the offence, the court may decide that the execution of the sentence shall be suspended for a probationary period: [[conditional bone]] Paragraph 231 is replaced by the following: Penalties under the first and second subparagraphs shall not apply to the acquisition or storage of drugs for personal use. The king may, by regulation, lay down quantitative limits for impunity under this provision. VI In Law No 24 June 2011 30 on municipal health and care services n.e.c. It shall be amended as follows: Paragraphs 3 to 9(b) are replaced by the following: § 3-9 b Advisory Unit for Drugs The municipality shall have an advisory unit on drug issues. This unit shall be responsible for meeting persons who are obliged to attend under the police law § 9(c). The same applies when the unit’s attendance is set as a condition for a specific criminal law response. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules concerning the advisory unit, including the organisation and content of the service, including the provision and interaction of other services and the processing of information by the municipality in such cases. Paragraphs 3 to 9(c) are replaced by the following: § 3-9 c Infringement fee The municipality may levy an infringement fee in accordance with: Section 44 of the Administrative Act twice the legal fee of persons who deliberately or negligently fail to comply with obligations imposed by law under Section 9(c) of the Police Act concerning the presence of an advisory unit for drug matters. Fees referred to in the first subparagraph may only be imposed on persons over 16 years of age. Fees may not be imposed if it would be excessive in view of the economic situation and the other circumstances of the offender. Fees shall not be imposed when the meeting of the drug advisory unit is set as a condition for a specific criminal response. The administrator shall deal with complaints concerning infringement fee decisions referred to in the first subparagraph. The central body of the country of collection shall levy a fee based on the first subparagraph in accordance with the rules laid down in Law No 11 January 2013. 3 on the Central Collection of the State. VII 1st@item: inlistbox The law applies from the time the King decides. The King may bring into force the individual provisions at different times. 2nd@item: inlistbox The king may specify transitional rules.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 195 of the Penal Code is replaced by the following: The same applies if someone is suspected of violating the penal code § 162, 323, 326, 334 or 353, or the pharmaceutical law § 31, second paragraph, cf. Paragraph 24, first paragraph.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The second paragraph of Section 31 of the Food Law and the third paragraph are replaced by the following: Possession and use of drugs, cf. Paragraph 24, first paragraph, is penalised by fines. Acquisition, possession and use of doping agents, cf. Paragraph 24a, first paragraph, is penalised by fines or imprisonment up to 6 months, or both. The third and fourth subparagraphs of the day shall become the fourth and fifth subparagraphs respectively.’; The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2812	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from Right, Left, and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Paragraph 66, first paragraph, point (c) of the Foreign Affairs Act is replaced by the following: (c) where the foreigner in this State is subject to punishment or special reaction for a situation which could lead to a prison sentence, for a breach of the second paragraph of Section 31 of the Act on Medicinal Products, cf. Paragraph 24, first paragraph, or for infringement of one of the following criminal laws: § 323 [[smaller fraud]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2841	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose legislative changes to ensure that prisons no longer become a criminal response to violations of the provisions of the Medicines Act on the use and possession of drugs for their own use, including propose remedial measures on the consequences of changes to the law.’ Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have now announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2861	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 20 May 2005 28 on punishment shall be amended as follows: points (j) and (k) of the first paragraph of Section 37 shall be replaced by the following: (j) carry out youth follow-up in the Council of Conflict for a period of up to one year, provided that the convictions were between 15 and 18 years at the time of action, that the case is suitable for such treatment and that there is consent from convictions and convictions, if any, shall be given; Paragraph 24, first paragraph, or the current first paragraph, point (k) becomes the first paragraph a new letter (l). Paragraph 53, fourth paragraph, is replaced by the following: If the offender was under 18 years of age at the time of the offence, the court may decide that the execution of the sentence shall be suspended for a probationary period. [[conditional bone]] Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have now announced subsidiary support for the proposal. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2880	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2908	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2927	The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2946	The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e2977	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party the proposals No 2-11, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 12, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 13, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 15 and 16, from Morten Stordalen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 17 and 18, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 19 and 20, from Nicholas Wilkinson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to facilitate drug users to test the purity and content of the drug and to ensure that the purchase and use of equipment that allows such testing does not lead to police reporting.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with proposals for a pilot scheme with a publicly funded drug testing service.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3028	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to establish a system of ‘social leave’, exempting those with drug addiction from paying abstinences in health care’. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the LAR scheme, including with a view to preventing overdose deaths with LAR medicine.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3050	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that measures and offers relating to multidisciplinary drug treatment teams, outpatient services, activity and housing services are measurable in each municipality, as well as low-threshold drop-in sites.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all municipalities undertake to convene young people who are taken for use or possession of drugs for discussion and follow-up within 72 hours.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3072	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that municipalities are obliged to have a multidisciplinary offer for young people who are taken for use or possession of drugs, for example by modeling the TIUR project in Ringsach, ‘Similar practice’ through the Conflict Council in Trøndelag or other similar offers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3088	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the medical rehabilitation services.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3105	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C with a view to eradicating the disease.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3122	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-11, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reform of prevention and treatment with a strengthening of the prevention services provided by municipalities, the capacity for multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment and measures to improve the quality of life of drug addicts.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an integrated after-care system to ensure that treatment institutions follow up drug addicts after they have completed their daily treatment and that drug addicts receive help to return to normal work, education or other activities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a housing offer with a distance from the drug environment and the possibility of follow-up for drug addicts.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is calling for the promotion of a national drug-prevention programme among children and young people, with the aim of reducing the proportion of young people who try drugs. The Programme should include, inter alia, information and awareness campaigns against drug use, the establishment of parental and family support programmes and the strengthening of peer work and the work of voluntary and non-profit organisations.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the establishment of pilot projects for environmental action based on the Icelandic model in order to prevent teen drug use.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a plan for increased drug treatment and aftercare in the municipal health service. The plan must include, among other things, fixed-term medical services, psychological services, increased use of immediate daily help, rehabilitation and institutionalisation, as well as prison health services. [[ØHD sites]] Objectives need to be set for multidisciplinary drug treatment teams in all municipalities, outpatient services, activity and housing provision, and lowthreshold drop-in sites.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to put in place detention centres in all prisons of the country, which have been reduced by government ABE reform, so that prisoners also get the help they need to master life after punishment.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to address the increased need for capacity in multidisciplinary specialised drug treatment as a result of drug addicts receiving health care rather than punishment, and to propose an increase in treatment capacity in line with this.’ [[TSB]] Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that addicts are guaranteed a comprehensive health service where both somatic and mental disorders are investigated and taken care of in treatment.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to provide the necessary professional follow-up of relatives to patients in the care of the drug so that they can support their neighbors in their treatment and everyday life.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3187	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting with an investigation into whether it would be useful for decision-makers and/or specialist health services to have access to print out more preparations to drug addicts in order to ensure better assistance on the road to drug freedom and a better life.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3237	It is added over IV. Right, Socialist Left, Left, Christian People's Party, Green and Red have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3251	It shall be counted against I, II, III, V and VI. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3273	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 19 May 2006 No 16 on the right of access to documents in public undertakings, the first sentence of Section 19 shall be replaced by the following: Where necessary for the conduct of the consultations, exceptions may be made to the transparency of documents exchanged as part of consultations in accordance with the rules laid down in Chapter 4 of the Memorandum of Understanding.’;» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3441	It shall be counted against II. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3455	It's votting over I and III. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3470	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3484	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3496	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law on amendments to the Planning and Building Act I [[strengthened responsibility for supervising the implementation of development and construction projects in accordance with granted permits and provisions]] In Law 27 June 2008 No. 71 on planning and processing of construction works is amended as follows: Paragraph 25-1 is replaced by the following: § 25-1 Obligation of oversight The municipality has an obligation to supervise construction works in order to ensure that the measure is implemented in accordance with the permits and regulations granted under or in compliance with this law on the basis of a sound investigation of environmental consequences and building safety and that the responsible undertakings are competent. Supervision may be carried out on its own initiative or at the request of the parties concerned. The decision not to comply with the request for supervision may be appealed against by neighbours or by others with a legal interest in appeal under the rules of the administrative law, Sections 28 to 36. The municipality shall exercise supervision under already imposed and when it becomes aware of illegalities beyond de minimis conditions. The municipality shall supervise special circumstances in accordance with the detailed rules of the ministry. The municipality may cooperate with other municipalities or supervisory bodies but is itself responsible for ensuring the professional quality of supervision and the assessments on which it is based. Paragraph 32-1 is replaced by the following: § 32-1 Obligation to pursue illegalities The municipality shall pursue infringements of the provisions laid down in or in accordance with that law. If the infringement is of minor importance, the municipality may refrain from pursuing illegality. The decision to this effect may be appealed under the rules of the Administrative Act by neighbours or by others with a legal interest in complaints in accordance with the rules of the Administrative Act § 28–36. II The law shall come into force from the time of the king's judgment." The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3574	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3609	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3625	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines of response will be given after submissions from the main speakers of the lots and up to six lines of response from members of the Government, and those who had to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3632	First, I would like to thank the Committee on Cooperation. The ban on fur animals was the victory of the Left in the government negotiations in 2018 and imposed a ban on a fully legitimate industry. The compensation scheme has been a demanding matter to find a solution, but now we are finally going to put a sentence for a very bad and difficult case for the around 250 Norwegian families who have had their lives waiting and lived in fear and uncertainty for their own future. As rapporteur, I have learned that there has been a great deal of willingness to find good solutions in the matter. For the majority of the population, it has been important to develop an economic solution that follows on from previous decisions and the leadership of the Stortinge where it has been intended to prevent the economic loss of fur farmers as a result of the ban on food. It will be expensive, but now we can finish this case. Fur farmers and their families must be sure that they will be fully compensated. They should be able to look forward. In the previous round, Stortinget stated that the compensation should follow expropriation law principles. In the proposition, the government has based its value in value measurement on the basis of previous case-law. However, the majority believe that this case is so special that it should also be allowed to use recyclable value as a value measurement method. The intention of the majority is for the interested parties to choose the method they consider best to reflect the value of the property. The husband will then be required to use this method of valuation if it is the most favourable to him in order to cover the financial loss and that that right is not dependent on any decision of the administration. I note that the government believes that the use of recyclable value would lead to overcompensation because there is no practice of using that value measurement method in the field of expropriation law. It's wrong, and I'll briefly explain why. Firstly, this is a very unique case in the Norwegian context – fortunately. Although the Storting has decided that expropriation principles should be followed, this is not a purely expropriation matter. It is therefore not natural to adhere fully to the principles of expropriation law, and the Ministry itself states that the expropriation replacement law is to be applied ‘as far as it is appropriate’. Compensation based on the recovery costs of a similar installation is not an alternative valuation technique under the Expropriation Replacement Act. There is no question of a different method of valuation from that in expropriation cases, but the majority have facilitated the conditions for recyclability in determining compensation for the economic losses of the husbandry in relation to what has been the basis for case-law in expropriation cases. There are constantly questions about using a method to determine what is the real economic loss of the fur farmer. Secondly, reference to value measurement methods in previous case-law in expropriation cases is misleading. The cases referred by the Department are, in my opinion, not comparable. As I said, this is not an ordinary expropriation case. In such a case, the legislator considers that, for reasons of principle and reasonableness, it is not surprising that he deviates from the interpretation made by the High Court of Justice in order to obtain compensation after re-establishment in expropriation cases and, in my opinion, is totally wrong to describe as over-compensation. Thirdly, it is stated in the Expropriation Compensation Act that it is possible to choose the method of valuation which gives the highest value. I assume that the government does not believe that that legal principle leads to overcompensation. Therefore, it cannot be considered as overcompensation that the head of fur shall require the maximum amount of value in use and recyclable value. To sum up, what is overcompensation? That's if you get a replacement that's greater than the real values. The majority of the population assumes that fur farmers will be compensated for by a valuation that determines the correct value and cover their documented losses, and that in this way is not an overcompensation. The intention of the majority is still that expropriation principles should be followed as far as they are appropriate. The new option is for the majority to open up the possibility of using reinsurers as an alternative to value in use to determine the compensation to cover the farmer's financial loss. The farmer shall choose the valuation method to be used. It's not an overcompensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3666	Last year, the Progress Party, together with us, stood in the Right and the rest of the Storting that there were expropriational principles that were to be used as a basis for the replacement of the fur farmers. Now there's a quite different order on the table, which puts the fur farmers in a special position. Others who, for some reason, get their property out of operation, perhaps because of road construction, do not get the same opportunities. What does the Progress Party think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3671	The progress party has always been aimed at ensuring that the fur farmer is properly compensated. The Party of Progress remains committed to applying, as far as they are appropriate, the principles of expropriation law. In this case, it is also a method of recycling that can be used under expropriation legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3676	When we started to create a system that would compensate the fur farmers, it was Bård Hoksrud from the Progress Party who was the State Council, and then the scheme had a price tag of 360 million. kr. Then came the proposition that we have to deal with here today. It has an estimate of 1.2 billion. kr. The system that the Progress Party has now contributed to is about 3.4 billion. kr. It seems to me that the Fur Animal Battle has got exactly what they wanted. Is there the thing that the Pelsal Battle has not been implemented in the proposal that the Advance Party has been involved in designing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3681	For the Advance Party, it has been important to ensure that the fur farmers are properly compensated. When you see what's been put on the table in the past, both 360 million. kr and 1,2 br. kr, it is not a proper replacement. The final sum today we don't know about. I guess the department has also said that it's very uncertain estimates. But the Progress Party assumes that we are now getting proper compensation for the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3686	This money, now mapped to 3.4 billion. kr, must be taken from a place. Will the Progress Party now cut down on its road effort? Is that where you're going to pick them up, or where does the Progress Party think of picking up these sums?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3691	The party of progress is a party of transportation. We're going to have a significant commitment to transportation in the future as well. But it doesn't get in the way that we want to clean up after the Left negotiated into government cooperation. This sum and the replacement method should have been known on Jeleua. Where the money is to be taken from, you have to see when you know the correct sum. What is important for the Progress Party here is to ensure that we get a proper compensation for the fur farmers, for whom the government has imposed a ban on nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3697	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3702	‘People, not billions’ was the title of Erna Solberg’s book published in 2011. “People, not billions” – so great! It could have been the title of this case. It is about people and a basis for legal and full compensation, which means that the fur farmer is covered by its financial losses – economic losses that have resulted from values that have become worthless as a result of a completely concrete decision in the Stortingen to ban the holding of fur animals. Today, Erna’s wise words about “humans, not billions ” are forgotten. Right, Christian People's Party and Left sacrifice people and choose to use numbers, juss and accusations of irresponsibleness as their mantra in the argument against the position of the majority in this matter. Forget about the humans. It is now two years since the Stortinget decided to give up the fur industry, and it has been more than three years since the Jeløya declaration stated that the industry should be discontinued. The Workers' Party has supported and supported the ban on the keeping of fur animals, but has always been crystal clear that we must secure those who are going to wind up, a decent and full replacement based on what is actually lost. Our responsibility is to ensure that we do not, in a reassuring way, impose greater financial losses on those affected by the 2019 decision. We therefore believe that it is natural for this to be followed by the use of expropriation law principles, and that farmers in the law are allowed to choose compensation according to their value in use or their value in return. I can refer you to the President-in-Office, who gave an excellent account of how the majority's proposals are to be understood in this area. The majority is irresponsible, we've heard so far. It is said from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. What is irresponsible in this context and in this matter? The most irresponsible thing that can happen in the Storting today is that the fur breeder cannot cover his financial losses. But it was also quite irresponsible that the government, when it proposed the ban on keeping fur animals in 2019, had a cost estimate of 350 million. kr to the farmers, and where the entire compensation was to be in excess of 500 million. kr. A lower number base should be searched for a long time. It is no longer responsible for the fact that even three years after the Jeløya declaration, the government and the Minister of Agriculture do not know the costs of legal and decent compensation following the prohibition. It's irresponsible. It is also irresponsible that it now seems that the government parties are willing to do anything to prevent us from getting a worthy conclusion to this matter. The parties to the Government state that ‘these members also indicate that the majority’s proposals will lead to overcompensation’. It is a very serious claim, followed by ‘which may be problematic in relation to State aid law, in particular where there is no clear and prima facie justification for derogating from the rules of the Expropriation Replacement Act’. What are these statements based on? What is the basis and the size of a number? What is overcompensation in this context? Is that all about what the government itself has proposed? What would be serious is whether we come into a situation where there is no full compensation, so that it is the individual affected by the decision, who has to bear the costs of the decision. If the government parties have not understood the very principle of this matter, it is precisely to ensure that the individual is fully compensated and is covered by their financial losses. It's very principleal and very easy to understand. Making sure that the fur farmers are financially harmless is not overcompensating. That is to provide, as the rapporteur said, proper compensation. Politics is about people, not billions. I hope that we can now set a worthy sentence for a demanding case – not demanding political, but demanding for many fur farmers and their families around the country. I expect the government to follow up and implement the clear decisions that are being made today, without delay for those who demand compensation, ensure payment, and that they bear in mind that, after several years of great uncertainty, this is all about people who will finally receive a worthy compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3724	As early as 2019, when the proposal for a ban on the keeping of fur animals was promoted, the Workers' Party proposed that the settlement be carried out in accordance with expropriational principles. Now the government has delivered a proposition in line with that, where one bases its value in use as the main principle of taxiing. In addition, a comprehensive report has been prepared by the Prime Environment of Norway in the agricultural economy, NIBIO, on the basis of which the valuation of use is based. So we see that the Workers' Party, like the other opposition, is taking the lead that one should not just base the NIBIO report. Instead, one shall oblige the government to engage in dialogue with the fur industry on how to interpret NIBIO’s recommendation on compensation. Does the representative of Aasland feel comfortable with such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3731	I feel incredibly comfortable with what is in the setting, because it is not what the representative Reten now refers to. It is not a request decision The Stortinget is going to adopt today, where one will find a agreed agreement on the NIBIO numbers. But it is very clear in the proposal that a government, along with the fur industry, is asking to find a unified understanding of what is contained in the NIBIO report. So I ask the representative to read the proposals carefully and thoroughly, so that we get a correct representation of what the proposal's starting point is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3736	The Workers' Party is a party that, like the Christian People's Party, is for a welfare state with well-developed arrangements, based on the fact that we all contribute over the tax bill to the benefit of the community. We record that Section 105 of the Basic Law states: ‘If the State’s discretion requires that someone give up his movable or immovable property for public use, he or she should be fully compensated by the State Treasury.’ On the other hand, there is nothing to say that a person should be entitled to full tax exemption, and anyone who is currently being expropriated in Norway is subject to a conditional tax exemption rule. Is the representative of Aasland saying that it is less painful for a farmer who has seized parts of the father’s yard, for example. when driving a motorway, to have to pay taxes if one does not reinvest the settlement after three years, in relation to a fur farmer, who, of course, also feels that this is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3746	I agree with the representative of Reiten that the basis for the welfare state is that we also contribute according to ability and get as needed. With regard to this case and the compensation we are now going to pay compensation for, it is quite special and is not comparable to anything else. If there is an expropriation of a farm or house, there is basically a great opportunity to reinvest this money in ordinary, similar business. But a fur farmer who gets his replacement and has no opportunity to reinvest in the corresponding industry is in a completely different situation. We've been thinking carefully about how it's best to understand how we're going to deal with such a complicated question, and we've figured out that the most natural thing is to compare with when a sheltered forest and pay out compensation to the individual forest owner. It is tax-free, and I have also reported that on questions from Stortinget, the Ministry of Finance actually stresses that this is not being proven as expenditure by the government, as it is difficult to calculate. It is also in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3753	Finally, I would like to quote from today's editorial in the Evening Post: «Note the timeline here: Friday, Ap was in a majority who would provide more compensation for farmers who would no longer be allowed to live with fur animals. On Monday – three days later – Ap sent a letter to Minister of Agriculture Olug Bollestad to ask about the consequences of what the party itself had been involved in. Some might think that the Ap, the Advance Party, the Center Party and the SV would be interested in knowing the consequences of overruning the government before they decided to do so. Of course, it is up to the Storting to make such decisions. But it's an advantage if they're well-substantiated. This time it is not.’ Does the representative of Aasland have a comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3765	We sent some questions from the farm to the department because we wanted to know a little bit about some of the claims made by the position in this case, so that we had a full overview of the various questions that not least the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have used against the majority's position. We think we have received good answers from the government on that, but the number base is highly uncertain. I think that those who know the least about the consequences of what one does today are Christian People's Party, for one has no idea what situation one puts the fur farmers and their families in if one does not give them full compensation, which one has foreseen all along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3770	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3775	I found my post from February last year. It began with that this is a joyous day, and then it went on that we saw light in the tunnel on behalf of the fur farmers. After that, there's a lot of water in the rivers. The size has now undergone another round of compensation for the fur farmers, and I hope that today we are able to put a sentence on the matter. It's been tough for a lot of fur breeders to walk in uncertain ways. There is no doubt that the road has been extremely bumpy. It's still so that in the Right we're not for the liquidation of an industry in this way. But when that happened, we want to be able to provide full compensation, and we have submitted that through Storting's order last year on the principles of expropriation law. It is also worth reminding the assembly that the right of expropriation is the law and practice we use when the state requires property or industries. The government has gone a long way in measuring good compensation for those affected by this ban. In addition, we have clarified in our remarks that recyclability as a principle should be possible when the value in use does not fully cover the individual loss of the fur animal. We have also made it clear that breeders who, for weighty reasons, did not keep fur animals on 15 January 2018 will be compensated. We also want the fur farmers to have their expenses covered for necessary legal assistance, and we have added a little extra there, so now Section 8 of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Court of Justice applies. We also believe that there are good reasons why fur landlords, i.e. those who own the land and rent out to fur breeders, should be able to be compensated. The assumption is that there will be a distribution between the breeder and the owner of the plant. We have also noticed that the closure of fur animal nutrition takes place at a bit of a speed, so there is a need to add up to more conversion agents in 2021. So it's increased by 15 million. kr. The government parties have listened to the industry in this round, and we have seen the need to improve the compensation system. It's worth remembering, as I also said in the line change instead, that it all started with a government council called Bård Hoksrud, from the Progress Party. That's $360 million. kr which was a stipulation. Now the proposition lies here, and in it it's stipulated to cost 1.2 billion. kr. We want the fur farmers to have full compensation, but when we see that the opposition is in charge of a scheme that seems to cost 3.6 billion. kr, we can't be a part of it. Aasland is asking here today what is overcompensation. Then I would say that it has at all expanded the number of fur animals that will be searchable, that would be it. Extension of the system to include products and services supplied to fur farmers, such as feed kitchens, would be. And then they have created a system that deviates from expropriational principles, a completely separate system that not others who are in a similar situation where one has to give up the earth, get to take part in. So you have a choice between different principles. It's an overcompensation. And full tax exemptions, like all the others who get their farm expropriated, have to deal with it, it frees the fur farmers. It was impossible for us to participate in what the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party are introducing here now. There is a system that is completely different from current practice when expropriations occur or when business bans occur. We want the compensation schemes in Norway to be fair. This isn't going to be that. Then I take up the proposal from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3793	The representative Guro Angell Gimse has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change. The representative Angell Gimse must come back. [[The representative, Angell Gimse, leaves the pulpit.]] We get to think that the questions aren't that difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3804	I thought I'd get away from this, but then one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3809	I understand that the representative prefers not to answer lines, but I'm not that bad. Full compensation and coverage of the actual economic loss are the basic assumption here. So the representative himself says that one is adding to the value in use, but in those cases where the value in use is not covering, one is going to use the value in return. Indeed, it is precisely the position of the majority, to give the individual fur farmer freedom of choice, so that he feels the security of what is being done in the Storting, as a framework for the settlement and measurement of the compensation. Then my question is, what is so irresponsible about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3818	We want fur farmers to have full compensation in accordance with the principles of expropriation law. This is the type of compensation we use in Norway to compensate people for, among other things. to have to dispose of their property. This is a law that is used as far as possible and as appropriate, also in this context. But what the Labour Party has been involved in is creating a system that is completely on the side of the right of expropriation, and we can't be on it in the right, because it becomes unfair to others. A farmer in the neighbouring farm of the fur breeder who has to leave the land, for example. building a road over the property does not have the option of choosing which you now propose for fur farmers. So this becomes a system that is unfair to others who experience expropriation of their property.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3825	First, I just have to make some comments on the post. It all didn't start with an agricultural minister named Bård Hoksrud; it all started with a government negotiation with Left, to get Left into Government. So it's a little bit special that the representative mentions a sum of 3.6 billion. kr. That's a sum that we haven't been documented by the department. It might have been nice to be able to elaborate a little bit where the numbers have come from. I note that the government parties believe that the use of reusable value will lead to an overcompensation because there is no practice of using this value measurement method in the field of expropriation law. Can the legislator, as the Stortinget is in such a case, for reasons of principle and reasonableness, find grounds to derogate from the interpretation of the Supreme Court? Is it possible for the legislator to re-establish value in such a case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3836	I repeat that it is the right of expropriation that applies when the State wants to compensate for taking over a property, and in this case it should have been indebted when the fur farmers are to be compensated. The right of expropriation can measure the values according to three principles. It is sales value, which is not applicable in this case. It is useful value that can be used. And that's recycling, if the value in use does not cover the loss that the fur farmer has. I find that in the arrangement that is now in place, the Progress Party is involved in advance of the judgement on which the discretionary power is to be exercised. Therefore, it was not possible for us in the Right to join the kind of arrangement, which remains on the side of the principles that we have had for hundreds of years in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3843	If you're busy with costs, it's a good idea not to impose a business ban on legitimate industries. Then you have to pay, and you have to pay. I am very surprised to hear that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Government Party in this debate are in the throat of us, the parties who take responsibility for this. The fur ban came because one wanted the left into the government. After all, it was known that this was not something left absolutely necessary; it was a test of the negotiating will of the Right and the Advance Party. So today we hear that they compare it with paying to get the Left into the government, with the need to refrain from building roads, which are often socially sensible. So my question to the Right is, was it worth the price to get Left into Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3854	As the representative Pollestad very well knows, we in the Right have no policy that suggests that we want to put down any nutrition, nor the fur industry. So it was that this was an agreement, and then we are very concerned that the fur farmers should be compensated. We experience that we take responsibility for our system. It started at 360 million. kr and ended up on a stipulation of 1,2 billion. kr. We stood here together one year ago, and we agreed that we wanted to give the government a mission that meant that expropriation principles should be based on compensation. Now there's a strange hybrid arrangement on the side of that court, which is unfair to everyone else. We couldn't be in the right on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3859	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3864	The case manager – and the setting – do well for measurement rules, process rules, technical calculations, and different things. I want to talk about what this is all about, just about the people – about some pretty nice people you've known about in this process. Those who drifted, worked and made a real effort for society were sacrificed in an unworthy political game at Yeloya. Without warning, one year after the Stortinget had said that we wanted a sustainable development, there was suddenly something else that was more important: it was power, it was driving black cars and getting a party into government. They thought they were going to sacrifice a group, they thought it would make little noise, they thought they could cut off the bill. It didn't go that way, because these people are really pretty. They told their stories. They chose to stand up. People got sympathy for them. People don't sympathize with the Right in this case. People do not sympathise with the Christian People's Party in this matter. People don't sympathise with the Left in this case. And when we see in the debate today that these three parties are attacking the great majority, which ensures a minimum of dignity, propriety and respect for these fine people, I'm sad. The centre party was against the ban on nutrition. We wanted a sustainable development. We want to treat people properly throughout the country. Even if they're relatively few, and even if they're a small group, we want to treat them as people. We think it's more important than power. But once a person has done this, I'm glad that four parties with very different history in this case have found together and taken responsibility. And dear Right, save me. They go to the pulpit and talk about the expropriation principle, that it was something they had been for, but in the first round they made fun of it; they didn't want it. The same thing did the Christian People's Party, they ridiculed it. And now that's the medicine. No, one should not introduce a business ban, but once one has done so, one must set up separately. And now it's all of a sudden we, the four parties that take responsibility, that should have counted on it. Maybe you should have a calculator on Jelaua. Maybe you could make some reviews there. Maybe you didn't need this. Maybe these people could have continued what they could have done best: get values, export values, to the country and take care of their animals. Can't we just allow them to do that? And so we have to come here today and be attacked. History is: They get paid too well. I'm sure if one asked all these fur farmers: if they had been allowed to, would they go to work, make the job yours, pay attention to export incomes to Norway, or would they have the situation they came into now? They wanted to work, they wanted to feed on society. I would like to thank the other opposition parties for the fact that we have, in different ways, managed to secure dignity, propriety and respect in a matter that is unworthy from end to end. The government has not done its job. Today's Minister of Agriculture has not done his job. The Minister of Agriculture has not done his job, either. But the chief responsible for this is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. It's her power games these people are victims of, and she and the government should have taken responsibility for this – and at least went a little quiet in the doors today. Because they're nice people, and it wasn't like this Erna Solberg thought. She had thought that there would be some days of noise, and then it would go over. I hope that the Minister of Agriculture understands this and today will use the opportunity to complain on behalf of the government that the government and – until today – the majority of the population have run against the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3889	Last year we stood here together and gave the order to the government that there were expropriation principles that would apply. Today, there is a quite different system ahead of us, another alternative, which puts the fur farmers in a special position as substitutes. The system of the Centre Party, inter alia: have contributed to the case, cannot initially be used by others, as far as I can see, there is an injustice in this. If you get your farm expropriated because it's going to be built a road, you don't get the same opportunities as the fur farmers do. My question to the Center Party is: Does the Center Party want similar arrangements now to apply to others? Does the Central Party wish to change the current right to compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3894	Last year, when we discussed this, the Labour Party, the Center Party and SV had some of the principles that we wanted to implement. We also got with us the Progress Party on that. A couple of minutes before the deadline for submitting proposals went by, the government party realized that they were in a situation, so they came up with their proposal and handed it in. So it wasn't like this process started because the government party was a driver for it. It's history falsification to tell it. One has been forcing what has happened now. What effect this will have on other industries: I hope that we will get a new government to the fall, which will not even think about cutting down profitable, legal industries in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3901	What is also happening in this context — in addition to the fact that expropriation principles have been waived — is that the Centre Party has contributed to the non-payment of taxes at all, while everyone else who experiences being expropriated has actually had to pay taxes. I'm curious if the Center Party thinks it's fair that there's going to be such a big difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3906	When this matter is as it is, it will stand out as immoral, indecent and unethical if the government first should come and give money in damages, then come and take about half back in taxes. There's a difference between this and having to give away a little bit of its garden because you're going to build a road, a railway, anything, a school -- socially sensible things. The fur farmers had to give away the industry because the Left was going to be in government, because Erna Solberg was to be allowed to be Prime Minister – pieces in a power game. It takes our responsibility now. Now we're cleaning up. It's completely uninteresting if this has precedents, because we don't hope that there will be a multiple in Norway to shut down legitimate nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3911	I record that the representative Pollestad believes that fur breeders should get more in compensation than others. In the course of the proceedings, we received a basic document from NIBIO, a professional report that says something about how to measure the compensation. The Central Party has made proposals to correct this report and these principles, inter alia. they wish the capitalisation rate set by NIBIO to be changed and to be lower. They also want to change other principles here, and refer to the Petition. Is it true that the representative Pollestad has greater confidence in the skills of the Pelsa Animal Team in this matter than professionally independent persons in NIBIO?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3918	I want to use NIBIO to build up Norwegian agriculture. I would like to use all the good forces to strengthen agriculture in Norway. I think it is completely inconceivable that we have come into this situation because of the right that we should use good professionals to calculate how we should put down profitable industries in this country. I don't understand that the Right still can't be as tall and dark as they are in this debate. Our starting point when we were going to work on this was one lead, that the fur farmers should have full compensation. The right of expropriation is not fully owned, but we have said that we should build on the expropriational principles, and then we have also taken into account that we may need to make some corrections to ensure the most important thing, that no individual should suffer loss because Erna Solberg is going to be Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3923	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3928	We've been through a little bit of a year, where it also has doctors in a discussion about who the state should be for people. The state has in many cases had to shut down, and in this room we have had many heated discussions about the state's responsibility to cover expenses, compensate, help people get through a shut-down of society. Throughout, the government has made arrangements that have provided very little support. Ein has been in danger of people losing much of their income, ending up in difficult economic situations. There are companies that have been in danger of going bankrupt. And then we have in a lot of laps, because we have a minority government, clean this up from the opposition -- not enough, but some. That's one of the situations that we're dealing with. It's a broken congregation we have here. Here we have a government where someone is for a ban, and someone is against it. We have an opposition where someone is in favour and someone is against. But what's going on is that the government party is not willing to make up for itself when an actual one shuts down. I just want to remind the assembly that this is not an expropriation; it is not an expropriation law user here. This is a ban on an industry, and a user of an expropriation principle, i.e. a method of valuation. What I don't understand is how to start talking about overcompensation, because the starting point is that no one can in any case get more than what they can document under the rules is financial loss that follows the prohibition – none. In the case of overcompensation, it must be either that the mode of valuation, the recovery value, leads to overcompensation, or that the value of use by applying that principle leads to overcompensation. In that case, there will be quite a number of criticisms of parts of the expropriation legislation. What's kind of under there is that a giver is too much, one is not willing to give what it actually cost – the actual economic losses that each person has to be able to prove to the right that they have had. There is no other method of valuation than that applicable in expropriation cases, but one has made it easier to use this method in determining compensation for the financial loss of the farmer in relation to what has been established in the case law of expropriation cases – that is the starting point. SV has been clear for a ban on fur keeping, and then we are very concerned that the state should act properly when that kind of ban occurs. If a person does not act properly in this matter or in other matters in which a person acts very strongly towards the population, one is in danger of undermining the state itself. It's very important that we don't mess up. This is expensive, yes. Does it affect something else we want to bet on in society? Of course. But the government party should have known that before they proposed a ban. I thought the first estimate of what this would cost the state, 350 million. kr, actually illustrates quite well what one thought one could get away with. Then the question to the representative Gimse and others: what kind of compensation do we talk about then, when we see here that the real documented economic losses are actually much higher? You must follow it up one by itself. It should be a very simple principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3947	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3952	The representative Knag Fylkesnes was with the undersigned in 2019, when we actually made the decision in this room, where the result was 101 against 68. There has obviously been a journey from then to now. Knag Fylkesnes here says that one should have a replacement at an earlier date that is based on real value. Well, where we stand today, maybe it's a little bit different, 3.4 billion. Kr distributed to around 170 users, because we know that the food kitchens etc. are also owned by breeders in many ways. Does Knag Fylkesnes think that this is in line with the decision he himself made in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3959	For SV it is that those who have suffered financial loss from the fact that we are prohibiting an industry, we want to compensate, within what they can document is financial loss. Once again, this number came up, 3.4 or 3.6 billion. kr. There is a number that we don't know exactly where it comes from. There is a number which has been sent over as one has been asked to document. The answer is that there's a great deal of uncertainty attached to it, it's very difficult to relate to. Nevertheless, it has been used as an argument point because this will be the price tag. Can the questioner explain what's in these numbers, maybe?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3967	The same figures I have in my possession have, to the extent that the representative Knag Fylkesnes has also received. The representative himself said in his post: Who should the government be for? Who should the state be for – with what is here today? One would like to challenge the 3.4 billion, and argue that there might be a few more than 170, maybe up to 250, so the estimate is between 20 million. SEK and 13.6 million. kr for each individual. Does the representative of Knag Fylkesnes think that this is a fair compensation, or does he think it might be a little more than what he himself had thought when he joined the decision in 2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3974	I'm assuming we're still talking about this 3.4 or 3.6 billion. kr that the questioner cannot show that has something to do with reality. There's no one who knows what the number of to the seventh and the last are. Time will tell. What's the starting point here is that those who have suffered financial losses are going to have it compensated. It must be documented. There should be nothing about financial loss, it should be the financial loss that an actual State intervention has caused. That's what's at the heart of the question: Who's the state for? Yes, he is for people – by the people and for the people, simple and simple. When the state intervenes, which the people have given the state the opportunity to do, the state will also take the consequences of it and compensate for the damage that has occurred, in a proper and reasonable way. This cannot be likened to expropriation, which is a prohibition where we use the principle of expropriation, because it is a good thing to value.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3981	I believe the state is the people, and the state is for the people. In today's Evening Post, which has also been referred to earlier, during the exchange of lines following the speeches by Aasland's representative, what's in the manager is quite interesting. It points out that this will also have consequences for other traders, for future legislation. Is this thought of the representative of Knag Fylkesnes? I understand that he wants a significantly higher star at the Pels' Animal Battle than I signed, that he has suddenly become the new Pels' Animal Battle all the time. There may also be some questions about this, but I could have thought of a reflection on future legislation and what this will have consequences for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3988	I don't think I'm going to be a hero of the Fur Animal Battle. I won't try this one. I believe that heroic thing there, riding a horse, etc., has been canceled, but I want the Pelsa Battle and everyone else to know that SV can be trusted if one does a solid intervention. We've been thinking a lot about the consequences of this, what it might look like if it and that and that and that. We have come to the conclusion that the concern for the interventions and those who suffer from them is so important, and that the basis for the exercise of the state may be at risk if one is not willing to follow up the decisions that one has actually taken. We've come to the conclusion that this is right, and that even if it's expensive, that's what it costs. It should actually also be a height taken for when one suggested it – a proposal that we otherwise were quite a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e3995	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4000	The left has been a driver in all matters of animal welfare, and in isolation it is the matter today. We've shown that we take animal welfare seriously, and we've had a lot of success in that work. We were there when we started working to improve animal welfare among the fur animals about 20 years ago. And then we've also been able to figure out how to bring down the industry by 2025. It was never delivered well enough on animal welfare for fur animals. Inspections, for example carried out by the Food Safety Authority in 2009, showed that 86 pst. failed to meet the requirements laid down. We've been through a trip, and that trip has been called for, and we're standing there today. The left is fundamentally concerned that all animals should have it well. Animals have a self-value and therefore animal welfare must be given priority over today. All animals must be guaranteed freedom from pain, injury and disease. This, of course, applies to agriculture too — with demands for farm ducks, or free-walking cows, as some townspeople would have called it. We have also gone into the bust to establish animal police across the country, and today we have animal police in five police districts; we are pleased with that. But it is also important that we have reforms to ensure animal welfare. This is becoming more and more the consumer's concern, and when consumer power is used, Norwegian agriculture is also good. Norwegian animals should be well, including those that are part of food production. Now back to fur animals: as I said, it has been a long process of shutting down fur animal nutrition. I am sure that many people here in the hall who have been with and discussed and worked on the matter, also think it has been demanding. We have agreed that the work costs a lot of money, but I also believe that the liquidation is worth a lot of money. It is good that the matter now gets its end, and not least I have a great understanding of an industry with farmers and families who now find other bones to stand on. I also understand that it may have taken a little too long for someone. Some people also feel the pressure that has been. That's why we've been involved in negotiating what we think has been a shy system for the conversion of fur animal nutrition, which can make the freedom to find other sources of income in the future and bet on another type of operation. Animal welfare measures are always the focus of the Left. I am very happy that we have reached a solution to this matter today. Some people are talking about solutions that involve a lot of money. We can probably agree on that quickly, not least in terms of what is going to be adopted today. But the solution is that we're definitely in the goal. We have closed that chapter, and I think that is also good for agriculture. Then I think – and there is no disagreement with what the representative Aasland says – that there are people in focus. A decent replacement – yes, it was offered a decent replacement, what came from the government. Many have been concerned about how this has been too much. I have to say that I think that once we've done today's setup, there's probably a part that's also going to reflect a little bit on the editorial in the evening post. Because what the majority of people do today, of course, will have consequences in the future. In any case, the Left is well pleased that we are closing the chapter on fur animal nutrition and hopefully we are done with it after today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4018	It was the former leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, who was able to negotiate the ban on jelly. She and Prime Minister Erna Solberg secured power positions, state council positions – and of course good personal economy as part of being a government council and getting over 1 million. kr in wages and salaries. Of course, that's all right in itself. But does the representative not see that those who have taken that decision and have secured both power and secure personal finances are those who have fought hard to make the people affected by this decision even worse? The powerless would get less, while those who had the most would be left with everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4023	I don't know if the vocals of the representative here were as precise – I have to say that I am a bit over that vocals. I thought to the extent that none of us in this room are engaged in politics for the sake of the personal economy. It may be that there is a little different in the Labour Party – let me hope that I am wrong – but at least I have no faith that there is someone in the rest of this room who does. Then one can say that yes, even from Minister Bollestad, a decent offer was made. I understand that the representative believes that it was not, based on his question. But when he starts to wonder that becoming a Council of State is about his own profit, I have to say that I didn't think that was what we were running politics for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4030	It's just a fact that you get power as a result of sitting in a government. It is a responsibility, and you should know that responsibility because you make decisions that affect people so much. The golden rule tells you to treat others the way you want them to treat you. That's the core of this case, and it's that simple, based on the culture we're really going to have in this country, and we can be proud of. So the question is really quite simple: does the representative André N. Skelstad think that both he and his former party leader, if Trine Skei Grande had been one of those who had been sitting up here at the gallery and being in the fur industry itself, would have wanted to be treated that way the opposition is doing today? Or does he think it would have been okay for Trine Skei Grande to be treated as the right government chose to treat the fur farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4037	The representative of Nils Kristen Sandstrøen from Tynset knows perfectly well that it is not Trine Skei Grande standing before him here. I have a great deal of understanding that this could hurt a lot of fur breeders. There's no doubt about it. I have even visited them afterwards. At home on my farm I have a plant from the 1930s of this type, of which there were quite a lot at the time because of the conditions that prevailed then. But I believe that the compensation to which we added, from the sitting government, was a good compensation. Not least, I point out the following, as I also said in a line-up with Knag Fylkesnes: What will this look like in the future, given what the evening post leader wrote today? Has the representative Nils Kristen Sandrøen thought about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4043	Yes, the representative has thought about it carefully, and I have come to the conclusion that it is very important, what the majority of people today do, for several reasons. The first reason is that by doing so, all residents of Norway can be more confident that if they do business, both their personal and their families will be much safer in the future. It should really be the Left, who claims to be a party for small and medium-sized enterprises, to see crystal clear: what the Storing decides today is simply an assurance that people will not be treated as randomly as Erna Solberg and Trine Skei Grande have tried in this matter. So we've thought very carefully and well through it, and that really should be the mind of the director of the so-called liberal conservative newspaper Evening Post. What's happened in this case is much more authoritarian than it's liberal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4056	I had a little difficulty getting the question to the representative Nils Kristen Sandtrøen there. But what I think is especially about the Workers' Party, which is supposed to be a governing party, is that one then does not care about anything as important in Norwegian agriculture as NIBIO, which has basic figures that have been crystal clear and clear, but chooses to ignore them completely. I am also a little surprised that the same Sand Tread – which obviously wants to be on the way to the Center Party, although the Workers' Party has also agreed that it has been necessary to shut down the fur industry – does not look back, for example. 2009, when inspections by the Food Safety Authority revealed a breach of the rules in 86 p.m. of the cases. Not only am I surprised, I also think it is a little regrettable that the Workers' Party will not put animals first in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4061	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4066	Three and a half years after it was known that a ban would be imposed on the keeping of fur animals in Norway, the process of establishing a legislation on compensation for fur farmers is currently being set out. This has been a demanding and tiring process for all the parties involved, in particular for the economic operators and their families concerned. That's why I think we politicians too, no matter what positions our parties take in dealing with this matter, feel at ease that it now seems to be a final clarification. At least it's like this for me personally. In 2017, we in the Christian People's Party voted that fur farming should remain legal, under a strict control and supervision regime. When the Christian People's Party entered the Solberg government, however, we had to deal with the decision to ban the keeping of fur animals. The Christian People's Party took over responsibility for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food from the Party of Progress in January 2019, and then there was a draft compensation scheme from the then Minister of Agriculture and Food, Bård Hoksrud, with a cost framework of up to 365 million. kr. The Council of State of Olug Vervik Bollestad immediately took the initiative to increase the financial framework for compensation. When Stortinget dealt with the legislative proposal on the ban on the keeping of fur animals in the spring of 2019, government parties agreed to give a steering signal in the committee comments which increased the framework for the compensation scheme to nearly 850 million. kr, and it was at the same time stated that there would be an estimate allocation in the State budget. A regulation was then drawn up in line with the guidance signals from the bulk of the population in the autumn of 2019. Then the Progress Party chose to step out of the government. Therefore, when the Stortinge dealt with Document 8:1 S for 2019-2020 in February 2020, a majority of the request decision requested the Government to amend the compensation scheme for fur breeders in order to compensate for an expropriation operation. In line with this request decision, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has drawn up the legislative proposal that we are now examining. This provides for compensation to be based on the measurement rules laid down in the Expropriation Compensation Act and for the application of the tax rules applicable in the event of expropriation. It is therefore surprising to note that the same parties who asked for the expropriational principle to be used for the settlement of claims have now made changes and additions to comments and proposals that go far beyond what is established for settlement after expropriation. Among other things, it is an incorporated tax principle that a so-called conditional tax exemption is to be granted on settlement after expropriation. That is to say, no tax is payable if the compensation paid is reinvested in other activities. Opposition lots have now merged to propose that all fur-bearing farmers receiving compensation be unconditionally exempted. We understand that fur farmers feel that it is unreasonable for them to pay taxes on compensation after a business ban. Nevertheless, we believe that a vast majority of expropriators who experience having their property and property confiscated by the state also experience it as both unfair and insurgent. We, who have been in possession of expropriation matters in our political work, know what strong feelings are put in motion when house and home or commercial property is expropriated for social reasons. That is why we have a law to ensure that those who are exposed to expropriation are kept financially harmless according to Basic Law § 105. The interesting thing here is that the Constitution shackles a principle of full compensation in case of expropriation, but not full exemption. Therefore, the specialisation of fur breeders in relation to expropriants who experience public intervention in private property rights and are still subject to the conditional exemption provision is not an approach we can support. On the contrary, we believe that what the opposition is adopting today on the full exemption from tax on compensation for fur farmers can have a backlash for the tax legislation where expropriators will also demand the same, for an experienced cause of justice. It is no less painful to see that parts of the land of the home or other commercial property must give way to the motorway and still be subject to a contingent tax liability, i.e. the obligation to reinvest in other property in order not to be taxed. To make the tax law crystal clear – I quote from the Tax Act-ABC 2020/2021 on contingent tax exemption, point 2.1.1: ‘As a general rule, a contingent tax exemption may be required for taxable gain by involuntary realisation of all types of property, both physical and non-physical, when the object is expropriated’. [[...]] Other changes made by the opposition parties also mean that the compensation mechanism is no longer in line with the expropriation law principle. That is why the government is now submitting the decisions taken to ESA for notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4093	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4098	This is a very special situation. To keep comparing it to everyone else doesn't work, because there's no way to compare it to anyone else. The Christian People's Party has a slogan: human dignity in the center. That's exactly what this is all about. It's about justice, it's about people, it's about families, it's about suffering, it's about black days and black nights. For several years, these farmers have been in this situation, and we heard from the hearing of state administrators and industry that what the government put forward would not give full compensation. Why do the Christian People’s Party and the representative Reiten think that it is fair and decent that these farmers have to pay the price for leaving home and working?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4103	Let me be a little personal. When I first went into the Chamber four years ago, I took on a role as a legislator and eventually also a role as a representative of a party that sits in government. At the same time, we are all people and people. When I look back at the four years I have been a representative of the Stortinget, this will be without comparison the case where I have experienced the greatest internal conflict between being a human being and having to be at the same time a legislator to ensure that the population of Norway is treated in a non-discriminatory manner, and that one does not start to discriminate in ways that may be perceived unfairly. I have also had to assume responsibility for sitting in a government, which means that you have to take responsibility for the state's expenditure and revenue. There are incredibly demanding decisions and balances. I am going to have this matter with me for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4110	Today, there is a lot of talk about the expropriational principles of government, but this has been a process, and things have evolved a little. I want to go back to 2019. When one had the first round in this case, the government's party showed answers from the ministry, where a letter: ‘The use of expropriation claims principles to compensate for economic losses as a result of the Storting’s use of its general legislative competence to regulate/forbid an activity,’ – and so on – ‘will be a significant fundamental deviation from what is common even if regulations have far-reaching consequences for owners of property in Norway.’ It is worth taking into account in this story that the Christian People's Party has fought against the principle of expropriation, and then my question is: Does the representative not also now see that the principles of expropriation law require some adjustments in order to provide full compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4120	Let me first say that the representative himself in his post claimed that the Christian People's Party had ridiculed the principle of expropriation settlement. I don't remember doing that. But this issue is also an example of the functioning of Norwegian democracy. A majority on the Stortinget was not satisfied with what came from the government. One placed an order that it should take place according to expropriation law principles, and the government has delivered it in full. When one then submits this proposition, which is intended to ensure full compensation under the Constitution § 105 and according to expropriation law principles, the opposition suddenly comes with a new list of requirements to be added to it again. Then I don't immediately agree that democracy works just as well anymore. Then it becomes problematic, and I think that, in fact, the representative Pollestad inside sees that it is. Because, as I said, we have a responsibility as legislators to ensure that the population of Norway is treated the same way, and that it is experienced fairly, the tax system that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4129	In reply to the reply from the representative Myrseth, the representative Reiten was a little personal, and I think it is wise in the policy to know a little bit about that side of it as well. Then my question is: When the representative, in a few months' time or perhaps a year's time, looks beyond the North West and thinks back at this time, do you think that the representative – or Steinar Reiten then – will be pleased that the majority of the Stortinget today took responsibility? Or does he want a whimsical feeling that he would want the government party to get through in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4135	That was a good question. I think that when I think back on this, what I want to be happy about first of all, at least, is that democracy worked the way democracy should work in Norway, and that the matter finally came to a conclusion. Let me also say that when I think back over the four years, this won't be the case I think back on where I had high shoulders because we went on a roll.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4142	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4147	The ban on the keeping of fur animals has been and is a demanding matter – especially for families who have experienced the cessation of their operations, but it has also been difficult to know how to deal with the case, because there have been major changes from several in this room as the treatments have been. When the law was passed in 2019, the Stortinget gave leadership on how to design the compensation schemes. Since November 2019, livestock farmers who have ceased their activities have been able to apply for compensation. As of 1 June, 356 million had been paid. kr in addition to payments for grubbing-up and clean-up, which are fully covered, pension compensation for breeders who leave early retirement in addition, and conversion funds. In February of last year, the Stortinget decided unanimously that the fur-farmers holding fur animals on 15 January 2018 would be compensated as if it were an expropriation intervention. This has been followed up by the government. We suggested that the Storting should today adopt a change in the law that provides a basis for full compensation under expropriation law rules. If the country and the fur breeder do not agree, the breeder may require that the amount of compensation be determined by the court. That's what the Stortinget asked; fur farmers would be compensated according to the same rules that apply if their plants were to be expropriated. Those who had already received compensation could ask for an offer under the new scheme and would be paid if they came out better. The majority now want a compensation scheme that gives fur farmers a right to higher compensation than would have been the case with an expropriation. The majority of the Committee would like to manage the evaluations relating to the measurement in a more detailed way and a more detailed level than in other cases. Then the rules will not be the same for fur breeders as for those who have to tolerate the exclusion of property by expropriation. Why the majority believe that the Expropriation Compensation Act and related case law are not sufficient to provide full compensation is a question I ask myself. Indeed, if the majority believe that this law provides too poor a protection of ownership, this is significant beyond the question of compensation for fur breeders. Of course, I will do my best to follow up the matter further in line with the Storting decision and the leaders who are here. However, I would like to point out that the proposal for a third paragraph of Section 3 refers to the expropriation law as far as it fits. Other proposals and comments, however, suggest that the measurement should deviate from the expropriation law and its subsequent case-law. I'll carefully evaluate the significance of this. It is also the case that the compensation schemes currently in force by the majority will, in sum, involve payments that cover far more than the full losses of the breeders. This means that the schemes may constitute State aid within the meaning of the EEA Agreement, depending on the activity of the recipient, which may be contrary to it. I therefore propose to notify the ESA's arrangements and await the assessments from there before the legislative changes can come into force. This has been a demanding case for the fur farmers who have closed down. If the Storting had today adopted the government’s proposal for full compensation to the fur farmers, it would provide a clearer clarification and a full compensation for those who have been affected by the ban adopted in 2019 that will apply from 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4167	The Minister of Agriculture publishes books in these days. There's the title: "Speak the truth about life." What we are now in the process of implementing is the replacement of fur farmers who by decision in the Storting have been banned from keeping fur animals and from operating their activities. Full compensation has been an important principle for the majority and the exercise of expropriational principles. In the case of expropriation law principles, a use value may as a general rule be used, but one may also say that this case is so special that, in accordance with the same principles, a person can use a re-establishment value to ensure full compensation, in order to prevent financial losses resulting from the prohibition. Does the Minister of Agriculture agree that there must be an opening in order to use the replacement value, or the re-surgence value, as a basis for ensuring safe compensation for the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4174	When the decision last year was made that we should use expropriation law principles, the majority in this room did not say anything about using exceptions. We were going to use expropriation law principles, and in those principles, it's either sales value, or you can use utility value, and in very special cases you can use recycling. But what was said was that we were going to use expropriation principles. I have taken this into account – with full compensation as a goal and that no one should suffer personal loss – when I made the proposition that is being dealt with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4179	The government itself writes in the proposition that one should use expropriational principles as far as possible. It says so. And if the Council of State listened to – and I hope the Minister of Agriculture did – when the case-rapporteur explained the majority's view of how § 3 and the wording there are to be understood on the basis of the majority's proposal, she heard that it is very clearly said that one should not deviate from the expropriational principles in order to use the replacement value, or the re-establishment value, but that each pet farmer should actually have that opportunity. I assume that the Council of State understands what the rapporteur said, and that he bases it on the position of the majority. I also made it clear in my post that for us it is also the basis, precisely to ensure a decent and proper settlement, which ensures that the individual does not lose financially in the decision made in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4184	Yes, the Council of State understands both what the rapporteur said, and what the representative said. I also understand that it was said in what was adopted, expropriation principles. And based on what was also said at the time, a follower would follow what was common in the case of tax expropriation. It's different now. One said nothing about which more were to be involved in this expropriation. It's changed now. In the proposal that I'm basing here, as a government council, I would have suggested some more that would be included, but we had a common time from which it would apply. Now the majority includes even more. It is clear that this will also entail some costs in what we are about to present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4189	This is about giving the right compensation on the basis of a decision taken in the Stortinget. It has become very clear that what the government has put forward in the proposition, there can be serious doubts as to whether it provides full compensation on the basis of what has been the premise for the Storting. Where the majority imposes a premise and a security factor by allowing the individual farmer to choose the re-establishment value as the basis for measuring compensation, it is necessary to establish the security to be provided for a rightful and proper replacement. It's about creating security for people. And I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: do you think you are able to create sufficient security for those who are now affected by the collapse decision on the ban on fur animals from 2019, if one follows the government's premise for settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4194	The President reminds us that the question should go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4199	When I, as the Council of State, am going to use a solution that provides full compensation, I, as the Council of State, have confidence in what has been practice, what the legislator in this Chamber has decided to do in the event of expropriation. I have faith in giving the fairest compensation, and full compensation. I believe that this is the basis for the work contained in this proposal, that is in our law, that is in what this House has adopted, and that is to be followed in such a way as to provide full compensation for those who lose property or rights when the State intervenes. I have faith that it is possible to do, based on what the law gives room for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4205	In the previous round, when the Progress Party made an agreement with the government parties and the government, a capitalisation rate of 4 p.m. was established. on the compensation. Now the government has proposed that it should be 4,5 pst. interest, and it's a fact that 4,5 pst. The interest rate is going to be less than 4 pst. interest rate. So my question is simple: how much has the government saved in the payment of compensation by adding the capitalisation rate to 4,5 pst. in relation to 4 pst., in dollars and cents?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4210	It's true, as the representative says, that we had an agreement that was valid on a completely different basis than what is here. Then the Progress Party has chosen to ride two horses. On the one hand, they've made an agreement with someone, and then they're making a different offer, or a different decision, that's completely different from what we assumed when we had negotiations. So that's why I'm saying that we've put in the proposal that's lying, and I'm on it. What's in heads and ears, I can't say right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4215	It's nice to ride, but to ride two horses I don't have the habit of doing and will probably never do that either. Because what happens then is that you insist, and I guess I have a bit of an impression that the government has done in this matter. But once again, the principle around the question of interest is actually interesting, and when one changes the capitalization rate from 4 to 4.5 pst, the government saves payment. They save money on adding interest at 4.5 pst. Is that why the government has set the interest rate at 4,5 pst. instead of 4 pst., to save money on the payout?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4222	My principle in this is basically not about money. In fact, this is primarily about getting a fair treatment. If the Progress Party had been so concerned that it was only about money, the Progress Party should also put more on the table initially when it was proposed to shut down the fur industry. The Party of Advancement – together with the other parties – did not do so before the Christian People's Party entered the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4227	I stretched my ear a little bit when it was said in the post, very clearly, that one gets far beyond the full substitution with the system that's here now. Is it at the system level, or is it at the individual level, and does that mean that the fur farmers themselves lie, according to the opinion of the Council of State? There's a lot of questions that arise when you come with this. One also sees that the Council of State sends out its Secretary of State to threaten the Storting with ESA in place to defend Norwegian interests and the decisions made by the Stortinget. It must be the case that on the individual use a person assesses whether a person gets more compensation than the use is worth. When the Council of State claims, as she does, that there is an overcompensation, my question is, Have some applications been calculated as to how this will turn out versus the real value? And can the Council of State then, in that case, specify what use and what number has been obtained, as a user as a basis for the claim made in the article?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4234	First of all, I think the representative knows very well, just as well as I do, that you should have expropriation. Whoever has a farm gets an offer. If he's not satisfied with it, he goes into a legal system related to it, and there's one going into each farm. I can't sit with that, because I don't have an overview of the value of each farm. Neither does the representative. But what is the matter here is what principle you should use to make those assessments, and I have based what the Stortinge asked for, namely full compensation in accordance with expropriation law principles. I believe that in itself should be full compensation from the individual farm, which should cover the individual farm. That's how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4241	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4248	When we stood here two years ago and decided to wind up, it was with a heavy heart on my part. Even the day after Jelaua, I understood what we had done and what we had been up to. I chose not to stick my head in the sand and run away from the responsibility, but since then I have visited pet farmers, been at their homes, talked to them by phone, messenger and text messages and been in meetings to try to clean up after us as best we could. It's like the representative Pollestad said, nice people. On the morning of 13 June 2019, the day we were formally going to wind up the fur industry, I decided to quit the party and give up politics, because I was so ashamed of the decision we were going to take later in the day. But I had a good chat with a party colleague, and instead I went here, took the floor in the debate and looked up at the gallery where the farmers were sitting – I see a lot sitting there today too – and I said: I failed you at Jelaua, but I didn't intend to fail you again. I had concluded that I could do a better job for fur farmers on the inside and by continuing in politics and working for decent treatment and a proper replacement. Now we're here. Hopefully this is the last time we have this case in the room. The majority of the size now cleans up and makes sure that the full price of the left's average has to be paid. Now the farmers must get on with their lives. What the price tag is finally going to be, we don't know yet, but I think that's fine. We're going to clean up, we're going to take the full cost, and the farmers aren't going to pay for any mistakes I've been on. History will judge us harshly for this matter, and not just for the liquidation. It was about animals, but in the 1,235 days after that, it's been about how we treat people, and how we make up for ourselves after we, as lightning from the clear sky, have taken the living bread from someone. It hasn't been nice, and I hope that what we're doing today is a dot. At the same time, I hope this matter will be a shock and a warning for politicians, other parties and the stakeholder organisations who will in the future consider laying down other industries, because they will soon look around and start hunting the pig farmers or the chicken industry. Let them know that it costs, and let them be deterred and put away such plans. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am surprised that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party do not show interest in making a proper deal after the Left Party's breakthrough. It's disappointing. Instead, I would like to thank the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party and hope that we can set a final sentence. And then finally, I heard in the line-up with Gimse's representative that she picked up if there was anything that the Pelsa battle had not received. That's it. They were not allowed to move on, and I regret that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4265	Today is historical in several ways. First of all, this is a matter that is unique in Norwegian history. I remember the hearing in 2019, when we at Stortinget were to take responsibility for dealing with this matter. In that case, Advocate General Arne Flivet pointed out that there is no parallel to this case in Norwegian history. We in the Workers' Party are for the overthrow. The National Meeting of the Workers' Party was already decided in 2011. But then we have been aware throughout the treatment in Stortinget that we have an extra great responsibility, both to take care of people and families who have been heavily affected by the decision in Stortinget, and to what consequences the decision has for other jobs and industries in the future. That's what's very important and positive about the vast majority of people we get today, because that in practice means that governments in the future can't do what the Solberg government has tried to do in this case: make such intrusive choices with such poor compensation. If we're going to talk about precedent, there's one thing that's important, and that's that today's set a precedent that means that the government has to treat people and families properly. It's a good precedent. That is why many people really have reason to be happy today, even though it is a very serious matter, because hopefully we will get to the end of the matter in a tidy way. Those who really ought to celebrate today are all other entrepreneurs and the business community's main organisation. Actually, it would have been very tidy now if they went out and said that they are very happy that the Storting has taken responsibility and really put the cabinet in place. When a legal ban on an industry is introduced, it is of course necessary to treat the sole proprietors and families properly, as all residents in Norway should. Therefore, I also find it strange that there will be so much talk about the expropriational principle, because that principle was, on behalf of the Workers' Party, together with the Center Party, with and after that hearing, because there was no case that could be compared to this. Then it is obvious that we also have to make adjustments, because there is no law that is initially adapted to this completely unique matter. But the Stortinge brings it very well into today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4276	To all the farmers with their families – it's over 260 of them: these families shouldn't have had to endure all this, these days and the nets and all the dark, for years now with fights in the uphill, with all the uncertainty. We know that this has cost us, because we've been told that. These families have been forced to unfold the innermost, most vulnerable thoughts of life. It has been unworthy. I'm sorry they had to do that. We see these farmers. We've heard. By «we» I mean the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Advance Party. I am very pleased with the consensus that has come. There have been different views, but it has been possible to put people, decency and justice first, for these people should not have had to endure so much. Because that's what it's all about: people – nice people, like it's been said here several times. It's not government parties talking about right now. They're talking about technicalities, about heads and ears. There are families that haven't done anything wrong, but we've made some political decisions. Then we have to take responsibility for it, and responsibility is about decent treatment. Then I must say that I get a flurry of bismach in my mouth when I hear right on the pulpit today. To set this up against road construction -- these are people who are being deprived of everything they do. They cannot continue elsewhere or in a smaller place. They have nothing left. It's a very strange thing, so stop comparing it with all the others. For whom are all the others comparable? I haven't heard of anyone. The price must be paid by the Community once the political decision has been taken. That's the only right thing to do. That's the only decent thing to do. People must be able to have faith in the state, to stand up when making political decisions. I'm sorry that it's taken time. I am sorry that so many people have had to share things they should not have to share, have had to send personal reports. I appreciate each and every one of them who sent it to me, and I will remember that. I hope we put a dot right now, that it will be possible to go further, that it will be bright, and that it will be possible to think about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4291	There are 1,236 days since a decision was made on Jeleia to lay down an industry – 1,236 days where some and each of us have had time to think about something that was not very smart, or what we say at home: very stupid. 1,236 sleepless nights for a whole bunch of farmers who lost their livelihood a late night on Jeløya – that's the result. The representative from the left was concerned that animals should have it well. What about people? Aren't people supposed to be okay? Aren't people allowed to live their lives without every day thinking about what they're left with now? They've been thinking about it for 1236 days. It's not a situation that some of us can imagine what it's like. Those who sit in this gallery know that. I was a little while ago in a debate here in the hall where we discussed property taxes, and where I made a statement that someone must have looked at Robin Hood and learned from the sheriff of Nottingham. I'm looking for the red parties. There are apparently several who have looked at Robin Hood and learned from the sheriff of Nottingham – there is no doubt about it. That they dare to stand in this room and say that the proposal they come forward with is very good, when the result of it had been that a good number of farmers, having received their compensation and having paid their debts, had to go to the bank and ask for loans to pay the tax – then you have a proposal that the sheriff of Nottingham would be proud of. And how can one stand on this pulpit and be proud that one presents a proposal that does not give them the opportunity to think about the future – after losing their whole work of life? Kindness, it should apply to everyone. The decent replacement is one thing, but acting decently on this pulpit should be something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4301	The management of a whole diet in the fur business is almost unbelievable. Parts of the government parties have fired loose here and there, whether it's right locally in Oppland, the Progress Party in government or now the Advance Party outside government or others. The closure is a fact, but the compensation we have had repeated rounds of. The Inland Right also adopted an annual meeting in 2019 with the following content: «The actions of fur farmers against the State are important and justified in order to test the legal protection of the individual trader in Norway.» They further stated that, in the event of termination, the compensation must be equal to ‘the real cost of an industrial ban’ — the real cost. About 200 fur farms, 500 jobs and 300 million. kr in the annual revenue of the State shall now be compensated. The price it costs for those that this is for is huge, too, beyond the heads and ears. It's a personal burden. Fortunately, we see that Storting's efforts here are beneficial. Ingvild Skedsmo said to Uppland Worksheet on 1 June: ‘To me, that means roofing over the head.’ What we can be happy for today is the consensus that the Stortinget has. I want to list it up. Point 1: The government must engage in dialogue with the fur industry in order to ensure a unified understanding of the wider basis. Point 2: The government must base the capacity of the fur animal activity applicable from 1 January 2015 on the calculation of value in use and economic loss. Point 3: The Government must propose the establishment of a scheme for the cleaning and cleaning of furs and forage kitchens. Point 4: The Government must propose the establishment of a replacement system for machinery and equipment. Point 5: The government needs to amend the regulation on compensation that covers the actual costs. Or as the Inland Right so decided: ‘the real costs’. So the special feature of fur farmers is the compensation system here today. Won't the Right Farmers do? Don't they enjoy decent compensation? Locally, fur animal nutrition has been very important in many places, including: in large parts of Uppland. I am pleased that the farmers who are subject to Norway’s first ban on nutrition are given the opportunity to obtain decent compensation. It is the special position in which the government parties have placed the fur farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4315	Now I'm not going to talk about people, now I'm going to talk about the kiss and the economy up there. It has been a bit strange to look at the reaction that came from the department after the committee came up with the setting, that such a clear and so timely conclusion was that this was support, this was more than full compensation, it had to be to ESA. The common thing is that the government thinks: we want to make the political space of the Storting the most possible, whether we are some or not, that is, we take the fight for the Norwegian interests. But here I felt that the government used it as a political argument. They said, "No, now we're going to try to do this again. We're going to see if ESA has a different view." How else could a person have assessed this so quickly? I don't know, but maybe the Council of State can say something about what assessments you've made against the de minimis aid code? What are the evaluations that you have made when it comes to it? Is it such that the payment after the right of expropriation is the underlying cause of what is full compensation or overcompensation? It has not been given that it is where this is located. I hope that the Council of State can do a little bit more for that. I also noticed that there was a small threat from the council here, that this was going to ESA before it was going to work and that. It says in A II that the law applies from the time the King decides. With the experience you have with the government in this matter, I need a guarantee from the Council of State that this will be done as quickly as possible. If not, I'm afraid that the Storting might have to consider whether to drop that formula and that the law will come into force immediately. I ask the Council of State to assess that Stortinget immediately took action in this law. When it comes to those who have a little difficulty understanding the difference between what we do in this case, and that, for example. To move a chicken house because of the presence of a motorway, then a person can use the expropriation substitute that one gets to build a new chicken house on the side, with conditional tax exemptions. It's all in order. A new fur garden cannot be built through this because it is forbidden. Yes, one can build up abroad, and whether it provides basis for conditional tax exemptions or not, I can also imagine that the Council of State might take the word to comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4326	This matter has been a little special. The government has not provided as much as a basic assessment of what the farmers actually lose in the matter. It is well because they have not asked anyone, never asked for a proper investigation or made a single appraisal. The government has not been interested in how much it costs. It has only been interested in how little it can get away with. On 11 February 2020, the Stortinget instructed the Government to provide full compensation to fur farmers on the basis of the expropriation principle. The store also promised that we would follow the case closely. It's definitely the Storing done now. The system to be adopted now ensures that all breeders who have a legitimate claim against the State can recover their losses. The date of the cutting shall be moved from 15 January 2018 to 1 January 2015, but with an animal husbandry requirement during the period, and the installation shall comply with the requirements of the Regulation in 2018. It also ensures that the general principles of the right of expropriation are complied with, by providing farmers with measured compensation based on the maximum value for use and the value for recycling. It's quite normal in expropriation cases, and that's how the economic loss of the expropriated is defined. By legislating that right, equal treatment is ensured by all breeders and it is ensured that the scheme is suitable for more people. In contrast to what the government claims, it is not a question of introducing an alternative method but of reducing the conditions under which this method can be used in a case that is not based on a formal expropriation but on a ban on nutrition. In the previous round, Stortinget concluded that the claims must comply with expropriational principles as far as they are appropriate. The majority point out that this case is so special that it is also to be allowed to use recyclable value by measuring method. It's not a new system. As I had in mind, the majority's intention is still that the principles of expropriation should be followed, as far as they go. I am very pleased that a large majority is now so clear on how we should settle for ourselves in this matter. The price tag is not ready, but now it will be correct. Finally, I just have to say that I am a little worried. We note that the government in this case is almost threatening ESA, but we expect the government to be loyal to the decision to collapse and to comply with the Storting's will if the matter is submitted to ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4339	This has been a strange debate. Hearing the government parties defend the injustice and the injustice that they are most likely to impose on many people is amazing. Hearing the representative Steinar Reiten from the government party Christian People's Party say that this matter is going to be brought before ESA, is also alarming. The fact that a constant misrepresentation of the principles of expropriation law, to which the rapporteur once again referred, is completely incomprehensible. Errors will not be correct because they are repeated This matter is primarily about providing a good basis for each fur farmer to carry out the justice and honesty required after the Storting has by decision deprived the fur farmers of the opportunity to continue their feeding – for different reasons, whether it is Jeleuka or the welfare of animals. But what's the starting point now is to make sure that what we're doing is fair and fair, and that it has a respect and dignity in it. I think it's most remarkable that the government uses numbers that are so to the degrees uncertain that they don't know correctly and exactly what they're talking about, and what they're adding to the proposition, but at the same time counting costs as soon as the majority voting was known. It's always grown. Why does the government not know the numbers in the different solutions for compensation? Has there been so much else to do that they have not cared about it, or was there a certainty that there were budgetary considerations that would form the basis for how the Storting should deal with the fur farmers? Because that's what's the basis now. It is the budgetary argument that is winning. But what is quite clear from the majority is that this matter is so special that it can be dealt with as the majority believes it should be handled, without having any consequences other than that one settles in a decent, decent and honest manner, based on what the Storting has previously adopted. I am very pleased that the majority is as clear through the position as one is, and I really hope that the government parties – the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with the Minister of Agriculture at the head – think again before attacking the position of the majority and the basis for what are the substitution measurements according to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4350	I want to answer the representative Aasland first why we don't know the exact sum. That's because expropriation is fair. So we don't know the exact sum. That's the basis for that. Then it was also said from the pulpit – I think it was the representative Pollestad who said that, and if I'm wrong, I'm sorry – that my State Secretary had used this in a debate to train me to say something about ESA. It is by no means such that neither I as the Council of State nor the Government want to train this matter. I will do what I can to ensure that this finds a solution as soon as possible, based on what has been decided today, but it is also about us as government, and this house as a big deal, having a responsibility to comply with international agreements concluded. I understand that some parties do not want the EEA Agreement, but here we are talking about following up both the law on the implementation of the EEA Agreement and the State aid law. It is in respect of fur farmers not getting into a situation where ESA takes the case – and they have to pay back – that we are looking into whether we have to do this to ensure the fur farmers. I didn't say we should do it, but we're looking at it. There's nothing else. There's no threat, there's no training, it's actually to do this in such a way that there won't be any more suffering in this. It's the challenges that I can base on that statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4359	1236 days the representative said Morten Ørsal Johansen. Yes, it has taken time from the time of the then minister, Bård Hoksrud of the Progress Party, presented the first estimate. There's no doubt about it. At that time, the Party of Advancement was also in government. So I agree on propriety. Relativity has also been the government's mantra in this, and it has been meant – and it has been – on our part. Of course, democracy works in this room, also with regard to the fact that we as government parties are in minority, and the Council of State Bollestad answered in a good way that of course we should follow up this matter. There's no doubt about it. That's it. It's part of democracy. What I am responding to is what came from the Aasland representative on this platform. We've been sitting on the same number base, both Aasland and I. I might see the need now to misplace a little bit around the 3.4 billion. kr, but the exact same basis is also the representative of Aasland. Is it so to understand that the representative of Aasland has always thought that this sum was less, that's what he assumes? But when the bill comes to 3.4 billion. kr, and there may be another government for the autumn – let's hope that it isn't – then the representative of Aasland will be there to find the money that he obviously thought was a significantly smaller estimate. But he's been sitting on the exact same number base as the rest of us. I understand, of course, the need for a fogging around it, I understand that, based on the position of the Workers' Party in this matter, but it does not make it any more obvious from that party. It's not that long since we had a similar case, where one also wanted a misalignment around what's the basis for numbers, and what's the matter. It would have been interesting if the representative Aasland could answer just this: is he still going to think that this is a billion less?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4376	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4381	I react very strongly when the Council of State has to resolve an answer to a question and starts to withdraw its view of the EEA Agreement, because it has a State Secretary who has told the NRK that there will be ‘significantly more than full compensation’. And on the other hand, ‘With their proposals’ – that is, the opposition’s proposal – ‘the peasants get more than twice the full compensation’. The Secretary of State has said that. Then my answer is, where are these calculations? Tell me the gardeners who get more than twice the full compensation. What is the basis for this state secretary's decision when he has made a statement on this matter? That's what we want to answer, it's the calculations that have to be submitted. Here an ESA is feeding arguments; a caller is near: come and know this is not valid! What the government's task in this matter is to defend the decisions that are taking place in this room, and we want to give full compensation to the fur farmers. I hope that the Council of State can now clear up before this debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4390	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4395	The one that misplaces the most here is perhaps the government itself, which does not at all have an overview of the number base that lies in the matter. It's probably the biggest fogging, and it's pretty scary that three years after the Jeløia declaration was adopted, you don't know what you're talking about. It is not even known how many fur farmers are covered by the different schemes. With respect to reporting: It's fogging, and there are uncertainties and uncertainties that I think it's completely incomprehensible that the government has not managed to get a better overview than what you have today. If it's $3.4 billion. Of course, the Labour Party shall stand up to enter it into the budget – it should be lacking. It's just about giving full compensation, as we've been saying all along. But we don't run from what we say, as opposed to the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Right. We're dealing with what we're saying, because it's quite essential for the people who are now being hit – or fortunately saved by the majority of the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4401	The representative of the Left is concerned that we have had the Council of State in the Ministry of Agriculture. Yeah, that's right. The party of progress was in government when the Left demanded that the fur industry be shut down in order to enter the government. This was where the matter started – when the left wanted to lay down a legal sustenance. There's a lot of numbers going on. We should expect that the government and government parties had a numerical basis to refer to, but unfortunately they do not. It's very uncertain, and the numbers vary almost from day to day. But the numerical basis is immaterial today. Now, the majority of the population will take a decision to provide full compensation — and hopefully proper compensation — to the fur farmers. There's a little special situation here – I've been in fur animal debates before, I'm actually a fish policy spokesperson, but I have the main responsibility for fur now as well – and in previous debates I've been challenged by, among other things. the parties with which we have formed a majority today, whether we are satisfied with the compensation system. I have been honest that the Progress Party has not been satisfied with the compensation system, and that we are going to fight to the last fight to ensure that we get a compensation system that we can live with and that we can stand firm with. I feel like we're doing that today. The party of progress has fought until the club falls, and we've won. I now hope that also the fur farmers can put a dot, put the matter behind them and lift their eyes forward after 1236 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4410	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4415	It was clarifying from Aasland's representative when he said you'd be on it even if it's 3.4 billion. kr. This is nothing new in terms of the numerical basis, although the representative, Mrs Strifeldt, said quite clearly what I have always believed, that the money does not matter so much to the Progress Party, that is no matter what you want to use. Our approach to this has always been animal welfare. I understand that there is a part that has slightly different entrances to it, but animal welfare has always been the entrance of the Left to raise the matter. I am pleased that today we hopefully land the case, not least for those concerned, the fur farmers, who – regardless of whether we have disagreed and had a debate on it – get a decent end to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4424	There's been some questions about where we have the numbers from. What we know is that in a common expropriational principle, which underpinned what was proposed here, there's a substitute between-- and I repeat between, because that's discretion here-- 650 and 950 million. kr. In addition, there are clean-up, conversion, retirement and what has been done. We have also put in what was about those who were outside the scheme, those who were sick when the decision to shut down the fur industry was adopted, and some who were training and renting out their farm. So the question was, I think it was from both Aasland and Pollestad, what accounts for the other values or the sums. If the rate in a circular called M-3/2002, is taken into account, it is estimated that the compensation in the majority proposal will be SEK 1.7 billion. kr. If the ministry is to be reunited with the Pels Animal Battle on key assumptions, and that is also the basis of the decision – and we assume that the value in use with the maximum legal capacity is taken into account – the cost of remuneration on this basis is conservatively estimated, with a further input of 2,65 billion. kr. So it's not going to add up to 1.7 billion. NOK 2,65 billion. kr. In addition, there will be compensation from furries and feed kitchens, there will be compensation for demolition and cleaning, and there will be conversion agents. There will also be compensation for future retirement. All of these sums form the basis for what has been provided for in those numbers. But it's quite right, as the representatives say, that we can't quite say the exact sum, because there's also a lot of elements in it with discretion. That's why I'm saying these are the numbers that form the basis of what we've been working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4435	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4452	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4459	I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee in this matter, where SV proposes that the government present a major communication on a long-term plan to strengthen children and young people's main municipal and state services, including, but not limited to, education, child protection, volunteering, mental health for children and young people, recreational services and measures against violence and abuse. The Committee shares the concerns of the proposers as regards the impact of the pandemic on children and young people. The Korona year has been demanding and challenging in many ways, and everyone has come to realize that it has been particularly difficult for children and young people, although the assessments of infectious diseases by both national and local authorities have focused on protecting children and young people as far as possible. In particular, the Children’s Ombudsman has been concerned about this and in meeting with the Committee on 4 May this year expressed her concern about the consequences of the coronary apathy for children and young people, both in the short term and in the long term. The whole committee shares that concern. Nevertheless, it is only the members of the Committee of the Centre Party and the Labour Party who support the proposal we are now debating, and I will now briefly argue why we in the Centre Party do so, and leave to the representatives of the other parties to argue for their views. Although the Center Party is concerned that we should not have unnecessary many plans and rather be focused on following up well the ones we are making, we see the need for such a big message with a long-term plan. We have listened to the Children’s Ombudsman, who gives his support to the proposal, and we also record the great support that the proposal has among other actors that are important in the work of children and young people, such as the Red Barna, the Church’s City Mission and the National Council for Children’s and Youth Organisations. In particular, we in the Central Party choose to support the proposal because we listen to the findings and recommendations of the Corona Commission in its report to the Government, which on page 28 writes the following important words that I intended to end with by reading them in full, as they are worth being remembered: ‘Children and young people carry a heavy burden under the pandemic, and the consequences may prove to be beyond the life course of those who are young today. Home and digital education can provide less motivation and poorer conditions for learning. This can lead to non-response and have lasting consequences for job opportunities later in life. Vulnerable children and young people have been particularly vulnerable under the pandemic. Several important services fell completely or partially in the spring of 2020. There is concern that the extent of care failure, violence and abuse has increased during the pandemic, but there is currently no guarantee of this. Authorities need to develop plans to ensure that vulnerable children and young people are caught and cared for in future crises.» With this, I address the proposal that the Senterpartiet has promoted together with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4479	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4484	Let me start by thanking the representatives behind the proposal for the initiative. Of course, the right-hand side shares the concerns of the proposers about the impact of the pandemic on children and young people. The Korona year has been demanding and challenging in many ways, and it has been particularly difficult for just children and young people. At the same time, I would like to remind you that just two weeks ago we debated a proposal that raised many of the same concerns about youth freedom. An overall committee writes in our comments that we note ourselves ‘The Council of States’s assessment of the proposal for a representative, and indicates the implementation of a number of key messages, action plans and strategies covering the fields addressed by the Socialist Left’. The government parties point out that the government has been clear in its priorities for children and young people in the management of the pandemic, but at the same time acknowledges that this group has been hit very hard. This issue was also well highlighted in the interview debate in Stortinget on 6 May this year. Several have highlighted the need for better cross-sectoral cooperation. It has to be taken seriously. At the same time, we will be able to promote volunteering as one of the leading common venues for mastering and experiencing across generations, geography and social classes. A major challenge is that the Norwegian model makes a significant contribution to sectoral thinking in the departments, departments, departments, directorates and, not least, at administrative level, the level of responsibility of the municipalities that are closest to the population. On the right, the government has more than ever worked more systematically, cross-sectorally and targeted to care for vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic. Proposals are in line with the long-term plan for defence and transport. It is not comparable to the wide range of services offered to children and young people, I dare say. Proposals promote the areas – but not limited to – education, child protection, volunteering, mental health, recreational services and measures against violence and abuse, which they wish to include in such a long-term plan. This illustrates in a good way both the issues that are already coordinated, and also the fact that it is very difficult to draw up a long-term plan for this range. Finally, I would like to make the Workers' Party's words from a previous debate this spring to mine: if that's what we have enough of, it's good plans. Then it's not a new long-term plan we now need, but a good and predictable follow-up to the knowledge and plans we already have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4504	We know too well how hard the coronary crisis has hit especially children and young people. The number of serious violence against children has increased by more than one third. There has been a sharp increase in the number of young people entering or seeking help for eating disorders. A number of organisations working with the mental health of children and young people have reported a sharp increase in pressure and fear of what they call a pandemic of mental disorders after the coronary apathy. Not least, the number of young people who report feeling lonely has increased. I ask, is there anyone in this room or someone in the government who is surprised? For there should be no one when the warnings from the Children's Ombudsman and a number of organisations have been quite clear about this from the very day one in this pandemic. The question now is what to do for children and young people on their way out of the pandemic and in time after. Should we allow all the negative consequences of the crisis for children and young people to arise and be long-lasting? Or are we going to do something now to refurbish children and youth's most important offers and services? In policy, we use long-term plans to provide a more predictable management of particularly important areas. There are plans to develop something over time and not just let it swing from year to year. We have long-term plans for defence and for transportation, for tanks and roads, but we don't have a long-term plan for our most important resource, namely the children. Time has never been better than now to do this and to create a plan that provides predictability for municipalities, which is responsible for many of the children and young people’s most important services and services and which builds them up, a plan for their own actions, a plan for the development of child protection, a plan for mental health for children and young people, a plan for leisure activities for children and young people, a plan for action against violence and abuse, etc. But that's not the government's priority. I just want to point out that this government has submitted 19 big messages this semester, but to say that we are going to make one about children and young people across all areas, they won't. SV went to the elections on 'Children and young people first' some years ago. I think that parole we're going to have to bring up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4523	This is a theme that would have deserved a better fate than a debate at the top of a 25-degree grand meeting. There's no doubt that a consensus committee actually says that there are many who need help that doesn't get it. A joint committee says that one of the reasons is that there is too much sector thinking, that agencies, professionals and different institutions do not cooperate well enough. The Committee also agrees that these problems have been exacerbated by the pandemic. That is when we are the proposers, who want something to be done, say that you sometimes have to go together and make a plan. It is especially when sectors do not cooperate well enough, when one operates on each other and does not work towards a common goal, that a rollover message may have something to do with it. I fully agree that plans are not enough, but to get different sectors to work together, a big message is actually a very appropriate tool. For then, different departments and levels of administration are invited, perhaps even having a consultation with different organisations and interest groups, and then setting out objectives, measures and plans for the different sectors, institutions and levels of administration. That's what's missing. One thing is the most vulnerable, as we hear, who's been getting more troubles during the shut-down, whether it's mental problems, whether it's violence and abuse, whether it's drug problems, or whether it's those who work the most at school, and who don't get it help, or a child protection that doesn't work well enough under a pandemic. But I think this is much more extensive. In these days, teachers around Norway have been working on bombs to assess students after having had a lot of home school, after the year has been very different. It's told about an enormous pressure on common performance youths, also on those who do well at school, where more people tell about mental problems, about a wear and tear and a pressure that's completely different than usual. This is when it would be very good if we went together and asked how all these professionals – teachers, assistants, child and youth workers, psychologists, child protection services, environmental workers, the leisure sector and the school sector – all of them – can work to ensure that children and young people get a good daily life now when the pandemic is hopefully relieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4536	I share the concerns of the representatives about the effects of the pandemic on children and young people. Especially worried about those who already had it hard at home, and who got it even harder when society was shut down. Our goal has been to protect children and young people against infectious diseases as far as possible. Children and young people have been our top priority, and if you look at neighboring countries, we have given priority, for example. the opening of kindergartens and schools in a completely different way. It's not long since the fifth grade in Denmark finally got the full week back at school, while we've managed to keep it mostly open all along, and I'm very happy about that. We have also continuously assessed the need for, and we have also included, compensatory measures in the various financial action packages that we have promoted during the last year. So a great deal of effort is already being made for children and young people through a series of key messages, action plans and strategies covering the areas addressed by representatives. The pandemic has helped to reinforce the challenge picture and the plans and messages are therefore still the most relevant. In the process of following them up and also making new plans – we will for example. Immediately with a separate action plan against violence in close relationships, one on Internet-related abuse, we need to learn from the experience that the pandemic has given us, and take into account the consequences of it. In my opinion, it is not a long-term plan that we now need, and at least not one that is modelled on the NTP and LTP models, because I do not think that is appropriate in this area. We've been working on schedule and targeting vulnerable children and young people under the pandemic, we've worked closely and well at both department and directorate level all the way, and we've had close dialogue with the State Manager, who knows the municipalities best. We will continue this work even now in the reopening phase. One of the first things we did was set up a separate coordination group at the directorate level. They have regularly reported to me, and we have also had coordination across departments. My experience is that over the last year, we have managed to work even more together across the board, just to see the kids and the overall situation and to take overall action. In the revised national budget, we are strengthening efforts to reduce the negative impact of the pandemic on vulnerable groups, not least children and young people, by up to 1 billion. kr in the areas of various departments. We must take extra good care of those who have had the most difficult through the crisis. That's why we need to take care of those who have experienced violence and abuse, we need to give more opportunities to travel on holiday or leisure this summer, we need to do more with the mental health challenges, and we need to close the knowledge gaps in education. It is too early to draw all the conclusions, but I agree that we know that there are many who have worn out, and that is why we need to continue the strengthened effort. I'm going to follow that closely, for example. in the budget for the following year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4557	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4562	There's, as many have been in it now, a lot of things and areas that we could take up, even in this kind of a sequence change, because there's a development that's negative in a lot of areas all the way. But I mention one thing that was brought to the square yesterday from the Sports Association, namely that there were 185 000 fewer members in sports teams last year. I can only assume how many people have left this year because of the pandemic. It has a major impact on our public health and on the growing-up conditions of the communities. Now the Council of State outlines that you talk well, the different Councils of State and the Departments, but what does the Council of State think about this particular issue? How does he think that it can best be attacked, especially given that the latitude is not exactly what the government is most concerned about in the daytime?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4567	I saw that case, and I'm going to be careful to move too much into the Minister of Culture's field. But there's no doubt that it worries me. First, I believe that volunteering is extremely important more structurally for the country, but the importance of being a member of different voluntary teams and organisations is great for individuals. That's why I think we also need to have a joint effort to facilitate that they can come back. I believe one of the important areas of activity that this government has had is the leisure card. It'll be very important in the future, because that means that children and young people, each of them, will get up to NOK 2000 that they can spend on their activity. I think that's also going to stimulate more people to come back. But I would also like to say very clearly that we have been concerned about this all along. We have chosen to prioritise children and young people first and then jobs. We want to do what we can to open the door when it's proper, and there's also the health authorities' feedback that we're waiting for. If everything goes right, there are at least three weeks between each step, and then it's not too long until we get to step 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4579	I see that the Council of State in the letter to the Committee on this matter says that although there are one-year government budgets, the state plans longer than that – and I really hope so! But the problem is that all those who now work intensively every day for children and young people out in the community's offerings, in child protection, in volunteering or in kindergartens, don't know what kind of transfers they can expect in a year. And in this year's municipal bill, it becomes very clear when it is announced that the earmarked positions for municipal child protection and the money for it will disappear and go into the municipal framework. It makes it difficult to build up an important offer or services for children over time. We have seen this in terms of both roads and tanks. That's why we have long-term plans there – it's weighing up that unforeseeableness. Why should we not have the same long-term planning for children and young people across sectors in municipalities and volunteering?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4584	I think society is best built from below, and I think we have good local politicians who are committed for the best in their municipality. And then the municipalities are very different. Therefore, I think it is very important to remove earring when it has worked a while after you have thought that it has been the right tool, and put it into the frame, and that municipal politicians can give priority to what they think is best for children and young people in their municipality. I note that there has been a significant increase in the number of employees in child protection in recent years, where we have provided 1 400 new annual works from 2013 to 2019. So earring is not the only answer. That being said, there are many municipal politicians who want long-termity in the allocations to the municipalities, but it is a very complex area to provide predictability. I have also not seen that the Swedish authorities have made suggestions on what they want to give to the municipalities in 2023, 2024 or 2025. That's because we have other tools to control it. I would say that children are more important than tanks, but there are huge investments in some of the sectors to which it refers, which is a big difference in these fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4595	No batches plan for several years at a time in the municipal proposition or at least it promotes in the municipal proposition. That's a little bit of the background because we're pointing to a long-term plan for this field, to give predictability. The council said in its speech that there is good experience working across sectors now under the pandemic, and that is very happy. My question is why don't we learn from it and start doing it permanently through the long-term planning work in the future. That is exactly what the Children's Ombudsman points to when they give their support to this proposal, that more work needs to be done across the board. Now we've learned that we can do that, it's worked during the pandemic. Why not also do so in the future through a big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4602	I think I answered the committee in my letter -- about some of the different processes that we have, where we work across. I fully agree that there is nothing to do under the pandemic. But where it's been made that you haven't been able to work across the board through the pandemic, my experience may be the opposite; you might have worked even more across and seen things more in context than you've done before, and that's what I think is a strength. The 0-24 cooperation, the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, the work we have on the action plan related to violence in close relations, etc. – there is a lot of work going on. It was probably the representative from the Right who indicated that the Workers' Party has previously mentioned that there is time for action and not just plans. That's a little bit the way I think about it. We have a lot of plans, which is all the more important in the situation we are in now, because what many of the reports show is that it is the ordinary measures that are most important. So that framework, the action plans, the big messages that are there, must only be reinforced even more. Therefore, my answer is: measures in the RNB and measures also when the budget comes to the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4609	It is foolish to have a plan without acting, but it is perhaps even more foolish to act without a plan. That is why this proposal is coming. The Council of State goes on to say in the answer that it is too early to draw conclusions about the consequences of the crisis for children and young people, we have to follow developments further before we decide what to do. I agree that we do not yet know the full range of the very serious consequences that children and young people now experience, but would that not be exactly what we need: to start work on a comprehensive plan, a child and youth growth report – which can gather all the knowledge, provide the basis for a real take-up over several years? Why do we have to wait to start this kind of work until we've seen the consequences? Why is it that the government is so patient before it can take the big steps, if it is to take seriously the reasons that the Council of State is using in its response to the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4616	Now we need to clear up a little here, because what the representative is proposing to do is to show that there has been a big message about the long-term agenda for defence and transport, and the proposers want the same for children and young people – a big message that sets out a plan for action on key services for children and young people for a four-year period. That's not how you work in these fields, and I think it makes sense, because very much of this lies with the municipalities, and you will have enormous government control. That is why I am very surprised that the Central Party is involved in this proposal. I agree that we need to get more knowledge – I have spoken to the children’s representative myself as well – and therefore there are many processes to acquire knowledge. Much of it has been summarised in the revised version, and the representative has probably looked at the measures and their overall nature. We're also working towards the budget right now. I just disagree that this is the best tool, because in a long-term road or defence plan, the huge investment that needs to be made in another way is. I want huge investments, but it's done in a different way when you go through either the local economy or, for example, the local economy. increase child-restraint.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4623	I had to draw a last line when the Council of State mentions the municipalities, for one of the municipalities that have really experienced the negative consequences of this pandemic, perhaps especially when it comes to children, is Oslo. Oslo Municipality itself has been out saying that it is exactly this kind of long-termity and predictability they want. They have set up a long-term plan for children and young people. And why are the municipalities concerned about it? It's not about state overgovernment of the municipalities, it's about predictability. They should have a certain idea of how much money there is for summer school or for transfers to municipalities in one or two years, so that you can develop your services over time. Does the Council of State really believe that that kind of predictability – control signals over time – is over-control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4628	Yeah, definitely, if that's the way that's described in the proposal for a representative, you think. How are you going to get a four-year plan for kindergarten, school, youth work – for all that's happening in a municipality? If you're just talking about what you're going to give of appropriations to the municipalities, you could just say a number, but the demography will record, there's a lot of changes that will occur over a four-year period. So that's a very complicated calculation. Of course, we want maximum predictability, but I think I can stand here and guarantee that if there is a change of government, this will never be followed up, because it won't be the best way to control this, and it will be totally overrule the municipalities. But to give signals, predictability about the way forward, we're obviously concerned about. This government has had a steady escalation of the free resources of the municipalities all the way. We have had a steady escalation of e.g. child-responsiveness, and the standard of teaching, which has contributed to more teachers. So to think a middle thing here I'm very much in favour, but I just don't think this is the best and the right answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4635	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4642	I think we should respect the situation we've been in, but I think we have to realize that it cannot be solved with an "NTP" for children and young people. The situation of children and young people is much more complex. Half of all publicly funded offers are for children and young people. Are we going to have a long-term plan for half of what both the state and the municipalities are actually doing – offering to our citizens? I think the rhetoric becomes a little bit that you say that the government won't give priority to children and young people, because you don't want to accept this proposal. We have a lot of important action plans that address these areas. We have a lot of good policies, as it says in the Granavolden platform, things you want to implement. The Child and Youth Culture Communication we have delivered, where much of this is included, will be discussed on Monday. The municipalities make many municipal plans for this, where they see their work for children and young people in a context. There is a lot that is already being done: early work, training law, trade renewal. You see it in a broader and larger perspective than just for a four-year period. I think we should have respect for that. The policy of this government has been: we have only one childhood — and the opportunities children and young people have, we must take good care of. That is why I am happy to vote down this proposal, because I feel that it does not respond to that challenge. ‘Long-term plan’ sounds like a fine word, but it does not really have the real content of the whole policy aimed at children and young people as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4651	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4670	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4677	I would also like to start by thanking the Committee on Cooperation on Procedure. I would like to make a brief statement now as rapporteur of the case and then then take the floor for a brief, more political speech. So this is an SV representative proposal that contains a number of proposals in the field of child protection. The main line of the proposals is that, above all, the public should be responsible for child protection, private operators should be removed, at least have fewer private actors, as well as a number of proposals for, among others. escalation plan, manning standard, etc. The majority of the Committee is in favour of rejecting the proposal. I'll come back with a more political article.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4686	The starting point of this proposal for a representative is that the protection of vulnerable children is one of the Community's most important tasks. Of course, there's something on the right that also stands behind. At the same time, I would like to point out that the fear of private suppliers within, among other things, The child protection sector is probably one of the topics that we have debated most times in our committee during this ageing period, and the left-hand side has raised the debate a number of times, with different entry values. In the context of the debate on this specific proposal, I would like, among other things. refer to the discussion of the Child Protection Act next week and a number of different representative proposals in recent years, where the issues raised here are well addressed. The public and private sectors should wish each other well, have a good faith in each other and have confidence in each other. We are all concerned here with the Nordic model of good welfare arrangements and a relatively large public sector, but that does not mean that the state or the municipalities must produce all the welfare within their own watertight bulkheads. Of course, public and democratic bodies should premise, supervise and control, take decisions and draw up laws and regulations. However, in many cases private and non-profit institutions can provide both faster, cheaper and at least as good services as public services. The right considers that many of the tasks for which the public is responsible can be well provided by ideal and commercial providers, and in some contexts it may in fact also be in the best interests of solving the problem, but there should never be any doubt as to where the responsibility for the services lies. I want to refer to the welfare service committee, which delivered its report on 1 December 2020. In this respect, the majority concluded that the industry does not have an unreasonable level of profit, and the majority of the sample further considered that no regulation should be introduced limiting the possibility of child protection being assisted by private actors. They justify this by providing private services with the necessary flexibility in an area of unpredictable demand and specific needs. The 2019 NHO figures show that private child protection services were purchased for 2.8 billion. kr, and the profit for the industry year before that, in 2018, was 4,7 p.m., while the average for other enterprises in Norway that year was 5,5 p.m. The Welfare Service Committee also confirms that the profits of companies providing welfare services are lower than those seen in other parts of business. Government parties are committed to maintaining a good welfare mix also in the area of child protection services. The aim must be to improve today’s system rather than to ban actors, as more parties fight for, and this is well supported in the welfare service committee report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4703	The centre party would like to thank SV for this proposal. Yes, we've discussed similar issues in the past, but the struggle for the tax money we spend on child protection to go back to the community must be taken regularly, as there does not seem to be any change in the unhealthy situation we have by the fact that commercial child protection is greater than public child protection within some of the most complex services child protection is responsible for. And it's even though the party Christian People's Party, which was part of and formed a majority in the Storting to increase the proportion of the ideal providers in the protection of institutional children at the expense of the commercial providers, it's the party that governs child protection policy in the government. We in the Center Party want a child protection that is mainly run only by the public or private ideal businesses. We want to end the use of competitive outsourcing and offers in the child protection sector, which we believe is a completely fundamentally wrong way of operating such an important social service – that our very most vulnerable children are treated by the public as any product or public project by being put out to tender, so as to be offered through the single purchase of institutional sites, and where the commercial operators with the large tenderers generally win the bid, and with it the important non-profit players and use the profit they get by winning the tenders, as they like. Good for 1 billion. It is estimated that commercial child protection providers will benefit annually. Hopefully, some of the profits go back to the institutions and measures that commercial providers operate, to make them even better, and where there are many capable people working for their job. But we in the Center Party would want the same capable people to be employed in public or non-profit, and that all the tax money allocated to child protection went to child protection. So far, it's not like that. Then we believe that the least we can demand is that those who work for the commercial child protection providers get pay, employment and pension conditions in line with those of public action. That is what we are promoting today, together with the SV. Otherwise, we are also involved in the promotion of proposals Nos. One, two, four, five. With that, I'll take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4712	The representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4717	Children in child protection feel that a price tag has been set on their heads. That's what the National Children's Association told me a little while ago. Large commercial groups have ensured an increasing share of the provision of child protection. Among private suppliers, foreign groups have increased their share of revenue from 23 p.m. in 2010 to 60 pst. in 2018, and it is at the expense of the ideals and the small individual privates. Several of them are owned by tax havens, and it's estimated that welfare professionals are picking up 1.1 billion. kr from our well-being in just one year. Yes, the child protection market has gone so far that detailed descriptions of the single child are sent out to providers of institution sites, who then bid the children. In one case, there was about 20 kroner less in the food budget for a child that made a commercial company win the competition against a non-profit provider. For many years now, SV has called for child protection to be a matter of care and not of placing on the market, for the child protection barons to be notified: if they want to take child protection measures in Norway, they cannot derive the benefit of the child's offer and the community's money. It is about creating children’s child protection instead of a child shop protection, a child protection where children’s best interests are the only governing consideration, not profit motive, a child protection with security and stability, not the concern of children and employees that the offer may be closed as a result of the next round of tenders. This representative proposal is about how we can do it – legislate that commercials cannot take out any kind of profit, have a strict interpretation of the exercise of powers so that commercials cannot exercise power and authority against children, build up the public institutional offer and replace the tendering regime with long-term cooperation with non-profit providers through grants. It is gratifying that all three red-green parties stand firm to say that child protection should be for the children, not for profit. That's promising. But I also see that the Workers' Party is not willing to vote for how to get this done here – or in the Child Protection Act, to which they refer – in addition to a so-called escalation plan. For me, this shows why we need a strong SV after the election, to actually go from word to action and take strong enough action to create child protection. Each crown community grants to the children shall be at the children's offer and not at fat bank accounts elsewhere. I'll take up the rest of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4732	The representative Freddy André Supreme Court has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4737	It is very well that the Center Party and SV agree on some suggestions here. If they had also agreed who would sit in government, it would have been even better. We are dealing in the committee with a major legislative proposal. It's going to be in the hall on Wednesday – I think it is – and I think that's the relevant place to discuss these questions. In fact, the Committee unanimously states on page 2 of the vote that it refers to the examination of the law and essentially supports the Council of State's assessment of the proposals and considers these proposals to be best dealt with in the context of Prop. 133 L for 2020-2021. This has been a repetition over the last four years. Child protection is perhaps the public institution in greatest crisis. There are many stories that, in terms of the incredibly important task they have to carry out, with the incredibly important employees they have employed, they are unable to do that job properly – where people change foster homes and caregivers many, many times through childhood and youth, where one either gets late or intervenes with wrong measures, has no confidence in large sections of the population, especially in the minority communities, and is unable to cooperate with other institutions, among others. school. We agree with the SV and the Center Party in the comments that we want this to be a good, strong, public service without profit and market thinking. As I said, we will come back strongly when we deal with the law on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4750	The SV’s proposals mainly address the issue of and how to use private actors in child protection. We've really done this in-depth assessments of the last few years, and the bill is going to be dealt with next week. It contains extensive discussions and reasons for which tasks we believe can be carried out by private service providers. I also believe, like the previous speaker, that the issue should be dealt with there, as the whole committee has expressed in the vote. The most important thing for this government is the offer given to the kids, not who delivers it. The private, whether non-profit or commercial, have provided valuable services to the public for a long time. I don't think we should shut them out from child protection or other areas almost on a principle basis. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the responsibility lies with the public. Sometimes this is a municipality, sometimes it is a state. They must use private in the right way and for the right types of services, and they must have control over the activities of the private sector. As mentioned above, we have made thorough assessments of how the private sector should be used. In the field of institutions, we have discussed in the legislative proposal a strategy in which the public itself will mainly take care of the young with the most comprehensive and complex needs. At the same time, we want an increased share of ideal places and to respond to what the representative Sem-Jacobsen had to say, especially at the expense of single purchases from commercial suppliers. For municipal child protection, we suggest clarifying and legislating what tasks private can and cannot contribute. For some tasks, the use is proposed in strict terms; for other tasks, training and competence requirements are proposed which will be relevant if the municipality wishes to have those tasks carried out privately. Representatives also propose a standard of manning and earmarked positions for municipal child protection. That is a proposal I do not support. A growth of around 1,400 jobs since 2013 and until 2019 shows that municipalities themselves give priority to child protection. I believe that the municipalities themselves are the best ones to assess where the need and benefits are greatest, but we need to make sure that it is visible how the municipalities prioritise. We have also provided such visibility through annual plans to assess the quality and manpower of their municipality. I think it leads to even clearer ownership and awareness of the local politicians, who do a good job of strengthening child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4769	I really only have a short question, because I wonder very much: does the Minister think that the use of competition and offers in the child protection sector is a very good way to drive child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4774	There are a lot of different ways of doing this, both in terms of long-term and long-term contracts and how the emphasis on quality and price is. I believe that a diversity of private, ideal and public is the best way to solve it. So we don't want to abolish those processes. Actually, I was a little surprised that the centre party has gone for it – I didn't think that was their starting point. But it's not that when we look at the quality of the different institutions – because I guess that's what the representative is concerned about – it's not something that suggests that the quality is better or worse either in the public or in the ideals or in the private. I'm dedicated to having the best possible offer for the kids, and I think the diversity that you contribute to, also creates innovation and better solutions. That's why I think it's important to take care of diversity. So we're very concerned about the ideals, and that's why we've also announced a way of stepping up when there's new framework agreements next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4783	Thanks for the answer. Yes, we share the commitment of the ideals with the Christian People's Party, and the Center Party is also occupied by the small private. But we don't want big international groups who like to have their bank account elsewhere, and that's clearly where the difference between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party lies in child protection policy. But when it is said: The very process of how the tender system works, and how to simply put the different children and cases on the market, as the representative of the Supreme Court also described how it works – is it worth it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4790	The most important thing for me is that the kids get a good offer, and that the quality is the best possible. The welfare service committee has just looked at the use of the private sector, and as I read those reports, there is nothing there that says that they want to abolish the use of it. But whether it's tax havens or there's bad working conditions for employees, I'm fighting it. There are many ways of operating regulation, and in the proposition that Stortinget will deal with next week, we have also proposed a regulation of the private sector. I was about to say that there will be a completely different law than it was under the red-green, precisely because we are concerned that it will be used when it is right. I think the best thing is to use it so that the exercise of authority, for example. the forced use is as low as possible, and the municipalities are good enough and know how to use it, because then it works well. However, setting frameworks is important, and it is important to have diversity — and the best possible child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4797	Among private suppliers, as I mentioned, foreign groups have increased their share of revenue from 23 pst. in 2010 to 60 pst. in 2018. It's about child protection and health care. Several of the foreign companies are owned by tax havens. It is estimated that welfare professionals will raise 1.1 billion. kr from well-being, and it is only in one year. All the figures are from the welfare service committee. Does the Council of State think that this is a desirable development in the area of child protection – or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4804	Now I tried to figure out the numbers, but if it's in that report, I trust that's the starting point. At least I can neither cancel nor go well for them. I, my party and this government have been engaged in lifting the ideal position at the institution. That's why we have set a 40 pst. goal, given clear leadership to Bufdir about it as well, and not least we are committed to bringing up the use of ideals when new framework agreements are to be concluded. We're also busy using private. We think the most important thing is the quality, and I have to admit that I have a bigger heart for the smaller institutions, or where one might have a local ownership and develop something new, than I have too large a group. The most important thing is the quality, that the kids get the best possible offer, that they get good care, good love, are helped further, that they realize the dreams all children have, some have only had a slightly more demanding starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4811	Then – for me, at least – it will appear that the development we are seeing is not desirable, because the small institutions with local ownership have almost been squandered. The ideal actors have also been under considerable pressure when we look at the figures I have from the welfare service committee. This applies to child protection and other health and care services. But to another question: As the Council of State is very familiar with, and as we have discussed in several successive exchanges in the past, the Stortinget government asked in 2018 to look at the use of single purchases of institutional space, i.e. single children in tenders, and to propose measures to bring that practice down. In the second attempt by the Ministry, the Storting finally accepted to calculate the decision that followed, but the question is whether the practice of single children in tenders is actually on the way down and whether the Council of State can provide an update on that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4818	I have to do that in that case next week, I don't have those numbers in my head at this point. It is clear that as we outline in the message part of the matter we are going to deal with next week, we show that we want a stepping up among ideals, but also that the public should take care of them, perhaps those with the greatest need, the most complex needs, and that it can also bring down the use of single purchases, and that we get away from the situation where we have not had enough capacity or available capacity when needed. Here it's also a balance, I just have to say it. There are very expensive places, so having a lot of empty institutional spaces is demanding. It is clear that there is a cost-benefit effect of it. The goal and the way forward is discussed in detail in the message, but I am absolutely sure that we can come up with more details next week, if the representative wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4825	The representative would like that, because it is a very important decision the Stortinget has made, which must be followed closely up. One last question, because I was very observant in what Pettersen's representative said earlier in the pulpit here, and I wonder if the government council they share with agrees. Pettersen defended and justified the use of private commercials in the Child Welfare Service and the well-being of the others because they – and I quote quite accurately now, I think – produce faster and cheaper. Then I wonder if the council agrees that what child protection is doing is producing, and that they have to produce faster and cheaper. So what are they going to produce, then? Should they produce care faster and cheaper? Is there any way of referring to an important welfare offer that the Council of State agrees with and believes is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4832	I am absolutely convinced that the representative Pettersen did not mean it that way, so it must have been removed from a context. Child protection is there to provide the best possible offer to young people, provide them with care, provide them with guidance, have individual follow-up to ensure that they can realize the dreams and opportunities of all children. What we know is that using private people, using diversity, can develop new ideas and new ways of working -- not that public people only work in one way, but you get a greater diversity. We also know that it can help you get more for the money. Obviously, if you can make a better offer because you can spend more money in total on child protection, or the same sum, just more effectively, it might provide better follow-up and better deals for the individual child. I am sure there was something in the direction that the representative Pettersen meant, without me being a witness of truth and explaining what he meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4841	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4849	It is the child's best that underlies, I think, what all parties do when we work on child protection and the services of child protection. As many people have been involved in the past, at least the Progress Party, is not the most important who provides the services, but the content of the services, and that the service and care we offer to the children who need it is the best possible. I believe that these types of proposals and other proposals that are aimed at limiting who provides services, rather than primarily discussing the content of services, are derailments. I believe that such proposals do not recognise or take on board the important and dedicated efforts of great employees of a large number of child protection actors, both public, private and non-profit, carrying out daily with passion across the country. The Progress Party believes that the diversity of actors contributes to a better offer, greater capacity and greater experience base, as well as a healthy competition for the content of the offer, and therefore, naturally, we do not support these proposals. We also distance ourselves from what unfortunately sometimes becomes a somewhat hostile attitude to private players, which we believe some parties and the left side have. We believe that the healthy involvement of private operators with the public service sector increases the content and quality of the offer among all actors. I would also like to remind SV of the amazing contribution made by many private operators, and which enabled the kindergarten agreement, which representatives from SV and my party were an important part of when it came about. Now it may seem that there is a more ideological fight against private players that is often carried out. We are concerned about the provision of child protection and the quality of care, so I am glad that yesterday we decided a case on expert reports and raising the quality of them, and that we have also had, and will have, many other issues to raise the quality of the content. That's what's our primary concern, not who's offering the services.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4864	I had to go to the pulpit one more time when the representative of the Progress Party accused us of not recognising the great effort that employees are making in private child protection institutions. I want to take that very far away from it, because there are people who just serve on a child's protection run by the public and the ideals – in addition to the children, of course – it's the employees, the same where they now work initially. What we are looking at in a number of areas of well-being is that competition, offers and sales – yes, where competition is made, where one can run cheaper or produce cheaper and faster, as Pettersen’s representative said so well – is just about the costs of personnel, i.e. wages, pensions, staffing. If there's something I'm really worried about, it's just the child protection measures where it is, among other things. are too few people at work without the right skills, who go beyond both the employees themselves, who are in an unsafe situation, and especially the children. Creating children's child protection, getting out the profit motive, getting out the insecurity that competitions offer is really for the benefit of both children and employees, no matter where they work now. So I just have to get into it with diversity, which the right-hand side often uses to defend profit in well-being. Then I would simply recommend the government parties to do a little update of their speech points after the welfare service committee came up with its report. Because there's one thing that's crushingly clear in that report, it's just that diversity has become less and less with the direction we've had in recent years with more and more commerce. The small, single private have almost been completely swept out, and the ideals are on the waving front. What we're left with is commercial uniformity. There are a few, a tricky, commercial big groups — mostly owned abroad, and often in tax havens — such as the United Kingdom. operates on the commercial side of our child protection. It's not diversity; it's opposite uniformity. The innovation we also want in the field of child protection, that we can develop new services, has in history just happened between the public and the ideals. But what do they say about that situation today? Well, now it's marked by a relationship instead of competition and business secrets. There can be no open and free sharing between the ideals and the public now, for fear of losing the next tender. That's what we want to do with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4877	There is no doubt that the political distance in this matter and in this room is very great in this area. We in the Right are concerned that we should be able to have private suppliers, precisely because we want diversity. We want freedom of choice, and we believe that competition can contribute to it. I react very much to the use of words in this matter, because they portray those who offer these kinds of services, who profit, that it is shameful to make money on children and young people. They're a profiter. Nevertheless, the reports show that the benefits of these services are not so significantly higher than those of other types of businesses and that they are simply not beneficiaries, they are providers of care. They're caregivers. And the municipality is concerned that the quality should be good, and that the children should have a good offer, and that is what is important. ‘Single child’ – the way you say it, makes it sound like it’s a terrible business you’re doing. The truth is that these are children for whom the state has taken care and for whom we have an obligation to give the best offer they can get. Then you have to sketch how these kids are doing. What kind of challenges do they face, and what help is it important to give them in an institution? Should you not sketch it in a document in any way, without SV responding to it when you create tender papers? It is a matter of meeting children to meet their needs in a care service that we are obliged to provide, and the municipality is obliged to provide the best possible information on the table. I feel that it will be difficult to talk about how to provide care services, when the words you use are then loaded. For how else can you solve it? Is it to think that this is what people see themselves -- they have to realize that there might be some mental challenges, that this might be a frustrated young man who is angry and needs help to deal with those things? I believe freedom of choice within this is very important, and I am willing to fight for it. I think more parties are willing to fight for it. But it should not be an enemy to the state, so I disagree with the SV in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4892	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for defending the vocabulary in my first post to the representative of the Supreme Court. Of course, I use the exact same meaning of the content of the service as everyone else when we discuss this. They are now called service producers, very many of the services we buy, but I can agree that in this debate I could choose another word. What made me draw again was when the Supreme Court talked about the employees, and pushed them in front of me in the debate. The representative is concerned that he has read the full report of the Welfare Service Committee. Of course, there are several of us in the hall that have done. It says, among other things. Very clearly what are the main causes of lower compensation of employees of very many of the private providers. It is about younger employees with lower seniority and significantly lower sick leave who are the two main factors of that part. Then I think it would be wrong to push the employees in front of me in the debate. We have examples of many important professions where you have the opportunity to apply for jobs both in public and in private, where there is demand today, but nevertheless very many, as we see, choose to apply for a job and become employed by private service providers. They'll do that because it's both exciting and interesting to work there. I think it would be wrong for us to push the employees in front of us in the debate. At the end of the day, the Supreme Court is bringing forward the profit of 1,1 billion. kr. Firstly, I repeat that the Hagen committee is very clear that there is less profit in this industry than in the rest of the world. Hagen has also said in a Civita seminar that ‘overhead’ costs of operating the corresponding services would be higher than 1.1 billion. kr. That means that the money had not been spent at the pointed end to provide the service, they had gone to overhead and administrative expenses in the same way, so it had not benefited these children we are all busy with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-06-03.ana.ud499e4901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Today's map has also been fully debated. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
