ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e28	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e44	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Linda Hofstad Helleland, Olug Vervik Bollestad and Tina Bru will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Espen Barth Eide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e53	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. A few hours ago, the EU reached agreement on a new and far-reaching European climate legislation. Our own continent is now at the forefront of a global energy transition from fossil to renewable sources. Developments are getting faster and faster, and it creates huge opportunities for the Norwegian industry, but only if we take over the depth and speed of this shift. There is a broad consensus that the marine wind industry can become one of the future industries of Norway. Among the many opportunities now offered are few that can to such an extent take place in the direct extension of our highly advanced oil and gas industries. This can make a significant contribution both to emissions reductions and to green jobs. But that's not what happens by itself. Concern is now spreading around the coast because things are going too slow, because the framework conditions are missing, because a clear, comprehensive plan for the strategic development of sea winds is waiting. Capital exists out there, professionals are clear, but the market is not alone. They will have clear political commitment, good framework conditions and faster concessional processes. The potential is great, but the competition is hard, and this is about to slip. If the Norwegian industry is to take good positions in this rapidly growing market, we need a domestic market. What does the Council of State intend to do to reverse this impression? Will she use active and powerful grips to avoid a lost opportunity for Norway and the Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e66	Let me start by saying that I absolutely share the approach angle of the representative that offshore sea wind – especially liquid sea wind – can be an enormous opportunity for Norway. We have the maritime environments, we have a strong and good high-quality supplier industry that can deliver to this market, and it is going to grow enormously globally in the future. The question is, how are we going to raise such a stake in Norway? There is no doubt that liquid sea wind is not competitive on its own feet today. It's still a precious technology. I am absolutely convinced that we still need technology development, and we need to get to technology development in a way that enables us to actually get that leadership in what is going to be a global market. Then we have to make sure that we develop a technology that is the one being used. We don't know exactly what's going to be the winning technology, because there's not much liquid sea wind around the world. I can promise the representative that this is a topic that I am deeply involved in. That is also why I have said in the past that a large part of the big news that has been announced, which comes before the summer, about long-term value creation from the Norwegian energy resources, is going to be about just sea wind, how we are going to get such a bet in Norway. Now we've opened up two areas, one that are particularly suitable for bottoms, which are more likely to stand on their own legs without large state support schemes, and the Utsira Nord, which are better suited for floating, but which have potential against e.g. electrification of offshore activities, platforms, etc. So there's enormous possibilities. I can promise that there will be answers in the message I'm going to present, but this is an important debate in which I think we need to think a lot about what's the starting point, why we're doing it. Is it for the power, or is it because this is an opportunity to develop a new industry in Norway? I guess I'd rather go to the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e77	I'm glad that the Council of States shares the objective and the vision that this is possible, and that we agree on it, but what we now need is political action to actually facilitate this, so we look forward to the message that is announced. A place to start is just electrification of the base. It's quite right, as State Council Bru says, that force from sea wind today is more expensive than just investing in power from land, but actively facilitating that as much electrification as possible occurs with sea wind, is a columbi egg. Then you get both the power, you protect the power-processing industry on land from too much of the power being taken away from there, and at the same time we're pulling up a domestic market. The vast majority of those who engage in this industrial activity say that in order to grow up, we also need a domestic market. Does the Council share my view that we should electrify the base as far as possible with the power of sea wind?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e86	I have no objection that we can electrify with sea wind, of course, but we must remember that Stortinget has decided that we should cut the emissions on the base by 50 pst. by 2030. It's only nine more years. Seeing that you're going to be able to achieve that goal of sea wind, I don't think it's very likely, not least because it actually takes quite a long time to build a large sea wind farm. Another debate we often have about electrifying the socket is about the cost of action – what we are willing to pay to trigger emission reductions. In a competition for action costs between power from land and floating sea winds, there is no doubt about what will be the cheapest, and of course there is power from land. We're going to use the power on land for other things, too, so in a longer perspective, this is absolutely possible, but there's a solution to the question that takes us to 2030, I don't think.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e93	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e98	If we are to take advantage of, let's say, the opportunities offered by the climate revolution, we must seize the opportunities right now, and if we are to succeed within the sea winds, we must facilitate sea winds. But there are also other possibilities. We now see the many projects that come up about this with battery production and hydrogen, and new woodworking industries can be established – etc. So I think it is a pleasure to read in today's business that the Council of State has thoughts about a quick track for industrial bets. But it's a fast track really without any plans, without any thought of what are the biggest obstacles when the industry comes. And the biggest obstacles are the oil and energy minister's responsibility for itself, and it's about grid capacity and access to renewable energy. Then my question is really very simple: we have said several times, and believe that it is important to have a comprehensive plan that just assesses networks, production and industry and sees it in a context. The councils have had a principal rejection of it, and my question is, Why?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e107	I don't think I agree that I have had a fundamental rejection of this. On the contrary, I believe that this is precisely what I have said that I am trying to make proposals and solutions for in the big message that has been notified. The Storing Communication is about long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources, and I fully agree with the representative that an obstacle to industrial development and investment in Norway is not necessarily the lack of power, but to bring the power to the point where it is needed, when it is needed. I have said that we are going to look specifically at this in the big message as well – what we can do to improve the situation around web deployment and ensure that access to the network and power never becomes a bottleneck for industrial deployment. Then the representative refers to the essay in Today's Business today, and that's a different track. But that doesn't mean we don't have any other thoughts, and the big message is a very important part of it. I am very pleased that we in the government decided to lift such a big message. It was preceded by all the requirements that I now hear from the opposition – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e116	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e121	Already in 2016, when we dealt with the latest energy message, the government went away from seeing things in a context. We felt at the time that it was important to see network and renewable energy production in a context in order to ensure that the industry had access to renewable energy. But at the time, the Council of State was a positionist in the Stortinget and rejected it plainly. She wouldn't be in that kind of conversation. We have repeatedly challenged whether the Council of State will take responsibility for seeing nets, wind, water, floating sea winds, the infrastructure on the pedestal that will eventually have to come, and industrialisation in a context, so that one reduces vulnerability and just makes sure that there are no bottlenecks as it is today. For today, a race about kilowatt hours and access in the network has started. We have to avoid that, unless we miss out on the opportunities offered by the climate revolution. Can the Council of State now guarantee that she will come up with solutions that will resolve the network infrastructure and the problems that are there within a decade?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e127	I'm very grateful for the representative's commitment to this, because that's exactly what I'm trying to answer in the big message we're about to present. This is a very important debate. I fully agree with much of what the representative said, but I do not fully share the view that this was a topic on which the representative or the Workers' Party was very concerned in 2016. As I remember that discussion, it was about getting something similar to what you have for the overall plan for watercourses, for wind and other things. I welcome the debate. I just feel that it's designed a kind of image of that this is something I'm not concerned about. On the contrary, I have raised this topic several times, and that is precisely why I have pointed this out as one of the major issues in the big news – network, how to get the momentum out, how to give more industrial development and jobs in Norway. After all, that's all that's important. We can have the plans we just want if we don't make the system work the way it should. That is why this big message is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e134	Lars Haltbrecken – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e139	Norway has a huge potential for sea wind, and particularly for liquid sea wind. We are now in a position where we can use a sunset diet – oil and gas production – to put in place a powerful effort on, among other things. liquid sea wind. My question is: will the Council oblige oil companies to expand and pay for liquid sea wind production?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e144	It is, of course, the companies themselves, when they develop projects, which also have to determine what kind of energy supply they want for their expansion. I think it's a proper role distribution to still have it that way. So I think we're doing a lot of grips to try to make this more attractive. But the most important thing to achieve this is to bring down the costs of floating sea winds. Now the government has set up with money for Hywind Tampen, which becomes the world's largest floating sea wind farm when it's finished. It was over 2 billion. kr in State aid. So the companies also take their share. I think we need to get into a path where costs fall on floating sea winds, as we have seen in the context of bottom-resistant sea winds and wind power on land. We are still in a technology track on floating sea winds, but in the long term I believe that this can definitely be good. I think that if the companies themselves see that this is something that is good and profitable, and that cuts emissions, they themselves will also promise such projects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e151	We will then proceed to the next main question, which is asked by the representative of Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e156	The Minister of Oil and Energy can only stand still! I thought I would raise a known issue, electrification of the socket. In the public debate, the Council of State has often called for one not to electrify the pedestal at any cost, but rather to give priority to projects where the measures are sensible. After the Progress Party has highlighted challenges that emerge in the wake of the electrification, such as: impact on electricity prices and the power market, we see that the debate is taking place in several environments and also, happily, in several of the political environments. In particular, it is gratifying that the State Council's own county councils are proposing the country meeting to the Right in May and are asking the party to be moderated in the electrification debate. For many out there, it seems quite pointless that we are going to use huge amounts of renewable energy in the mainland and send it out to oil and gas installations at sea, with the result that the excess gas is only sold or burned elsewhere in the world, while our emissions are looking finer. But what I think even more reacts to is the enormous costs involved. The Ministry has stated in the past that it will cost between 1500 and 8000 kroner per tonne of CO 2 reduced to electrify the base. Equinor himself has estimated that the cost of electrifying his installations will be around 50 billion. kr. It would be very interesting to know where the council thinks you're passing the famous sense. In the Wisting field, action costs are estimated to be between 3800 and 4800 kr per tonne of CO 2. My question is thus very simple: Does the Council of State think it makes sense to electrify the Wisting field?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e173	This is a debate we've had many times before, and I think it's very nice that we can have it one more time. I agree with the representative that force from country is not action we should use uncritically, always and in any case. But it's also now the case that it's the companies that grow their own projects, and that come up with a solution to the power supply, and what they want, and what they see as both realistic and profitable, and that provides good operation on the installations. Then we have to remember, as I also mentioned before, that even the Progress Party was in favour of a proposal last year in connection with the oil tax package that we should cut 50 pst. of emissions on Norwegian cap by 2030. The only measure we have to achieve that goal is power from land. If it is the case that the Progress Party is against it, they should never vote in favour of that proposal. In that case, it is useful for me, as the Council of State, to hear what kind of action the Progress Party thinks we should apply which is not force from land. Most of the power-from-country projects we have carried out in Norway so far do not have a cost of action of 8 000 kroner per tonne. It's much lower, some of them far less than a thousand as well. So in between, this will be profitable. And then in Norway we have some tools that are going to trigger this. The most important thing to trigger is the CO 2 tax and the allowance price. Then we have said that the CO 2 tax on the socket will increase to a total of NOK 2 000 per tonne in 2030. It will also change the calculation for part of the power-from-country projects. No, we're not going to do it at any cost. But I think this principal resistance, like everything's wrong, is a little weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e192	Thank you for your answer. I understand that the answer to reason can be difficult. I am very aware that the Progress Party has been involved in an agreement to reduce emissions by 50 pst., but we must not forget the logic of this agreement, and if the consequences are ugly, there must be opportunities to assess previous agreements. We are facing many challenges in the work that is now being done to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and then one is not going to miss the fact that the economy is going to play a major role. The core of this problem is that it is not the oil companies themselves that will account for the majority of the costs, but it is the electricity customer, it is the taxpayer, because of the petroleum tax return. Whenever one wants to enter into such measures, at that price, when one has other measures, such as: forest planting at 50 SEK, and when one has a quota price of less than 400 SEK, how can one then believe that in Norway it makes sense to take measures that cost ten times more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e199	As I said before, what kind of solutions to have, and what to do in each project, must be evaluated from project to project. We don't have a principle line in Norway that you always have to electrify everything, anyway. It has to be assessed, and it is the companies that have to make that assessment and also account for the economy of their projects. But again, we have a national emission target in Norway, and Norwegian cap is also included in it. When we cut emissions on the base, it goes against the emission target we have nationally. It won't help planting forest. It won't take us to a 50 pst reduction. by 2030 on the base. I am open that we can also discuss other solutions, and of course you should not look blindly at the action diet. It plays a role, but as I said before, some of these projects have a very low cost of action. Earlier today we have discussed sea wind – should we electrify with it instead? The representative has also been concerned that we should bet on sea wind in Norway. The cost of action will be much higher than that of power from land, if you want to use it on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e206	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Halleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e211	Yes, one would like to hide behind the climate targets and say that this is necessary, but nevertheless I can not get hold of this with the sensible behind it, which the Council of State has come back to several times. Does the Council of State feel that it makes sense to use the power uncritically for this electrification, let the oil companies themselves take that assessment, while we see that the power price and access to power are in the process of preventing new start-ups? We see that there are great desires for the creation of both jobs and technology development. We see a desire for strength and establishment all over the country. One can only take the mountainous region, which a few years ago needed 600 MW. There is now a need for 2,800 MW. At the same time, the Official Journal of Bergen writes about ten industrial projects that have been put on hold in the mountainous region. Can the Council of State tell me the sense of using the surplus power on Norwegian pedestal when this can prevent profitable industrial start-ups on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e217	I do not agree with the description of making this uncritical. On the contrary, I believe that all the answers I have given so far today show that you do not. These are things that everyone has to carefully consider. It also applies to the companies. It's also the case that we in this country are heading towards a surplus of power towards 2030 and perhaps past. There's going to be a lot of new power on the grid right now. So it's true, as the representative says, that we have some challenges in getting the power to where it's needed, when it's needed, and I'm also going to get back to this in the big news, which I've already been to before today. For example: notifications in the mountain area, a lot of that growth has only come in the last year, so this is going very fast. But in no way would I agree that you can hide behind any climate targets. You don't hide behind climate targets. They are adopted because it is important and correct and because we have both international obligations and a self-interest in cutting emissions in Norway. The base must be involved, and therefore the industry itself is positive about this and sets strong goals – but not at all costs, always.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e224	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e229	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Agriculture policy is about what Norway should look like and what Norway should be like. For the Central Party, agriculture is enormously important. The centre party's commitment to agriculture, food production and the Norwegian farmer has many reasons: Agriculture employs people and creates values throughout the country. Agriculture is the basis of the food industry, which is our largest mainland industry. Own food production is important for our preparedness – in a crisis food is just as important as soldiers. The peasants take care of our country and provide beautiful cultural landscapes, to the delight of both us who live here, and tourists who visit the country. Norwegian agriculture is definitely an industry dependent on policy and political will. Norway is a cold country, and we have a short growing season and a high cost level. That is why a powerful agricultural policy is needed. Food production in many towns and parts of the country is in a critical phase. Two of the most important aspects of agricultural policy are customs protection and agricultural policy. Now it's anxiety, anxiety and excitement all tied to both. Norway negotiates with the United Kingdom a free trade agreement after Brexit. Here is the fear that the government will grant increased access to imported food for Norwegian production. We are also at the beginning of the agricultural process for this year, and now we have figures showing that the income gap between agriculture and other groups is increasing. In the last five years, the income gap between the farmers and other groups has increased by NOK 12 000. This happens despite the fact that the Storting has set a target to close the income gap between farmers and other groups in society. Will the Council of State ensure that agriculture is maintained throughout the country and, through the agricultural settlement, this year, follow up the aim of the Great Britain to reduce and close the income gap between farmers and other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e256	I want to start by saying that I really share the representative's description of the importance of both having a Norwegian agricultural policy, having an agricultural policy all over the country and having an agricultural policy with different structures. I also agree that we are going to have an agricultural sector that always produces what the market wants, because it is also about not having an overproduction, which both the farmers, the market and everyone else are losing. When the Christian People's Party joined the government in 2019, import protection and customs protection were an important basis for securing Norwegian agriculture. This is because we've also seen the effect of what trade means across borders. Once one has also closed the border with Sweden, sees the importance it has for Norwegian agriculture. So I'm dividing it. With regard to the figures in the agricultural settlement, I am referring to what the budget item has provided, because there has been a consensus that it is as a base figure. The two years I have been responsible for the agricultural settlement, I have had an agreement with both organisations, and we have based the figures that have come from the budget topic. I want to do that this year too – go into it clearly. We have also said in the Granavolden platform that we want to close the revenue gap, because we see no gain in that gap being large.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e267	There has been a peasant uprising this spring, and it comes from the experience that it is described by government councils, government representatives, and others from the government party who come with it, which is bragged by the development of agriculture. They're sitting here looking at it from their office chair, and they have the help of ever-increasing communication departments to tell a sunshine story. The problem is that those sitting on the tractor seat do not recognize themselves in the story that is being told – and that applies to the farmers throughout the country. The peasant revolt is a grassroots uprising for a more honest discussion and description of the agricultural situation, and they have a demand for equalization with others in the value chain. Now, the number, which I think we can assume, is that the income gap and the differences have increased by $12,000, despite the fact that the goal is to reduce it. Then the question is, Will the Council take the peasant revolt seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e276	I understand the impatience of the farmers. I understand the commitment of the peasants. I also understand that both organisations, as I said earlier, in the settlements I have been responsible for, have used the figures of the budget subject. I'm also going to take that into account in these negotiations we're going to have now. I take seriously the requirement that comes from the organisations on 27 April. We're going to add an offer on May 4th, and those negotiations I see it as very important to achieve, with which I've done the other two years – just in a dialogue with agriculture itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e283	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e288	A dark cloud in the horizon is the ongoing negotiations with the United Kingdom on a free trade agreement. Many fear that the government will negotiate away the Norwegian cow, that agriculture will be sacrificed for an agreement. The customs protection has been weighted bit by bit. It has been given new quotas to the EU. Free trade agreements will be negotiated, inter alia: with the countries of South America. And now negotiations with the United Kingdom are taking place. We can therefore risk that, after a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom, the government is willing to sacrifice production equivalent to hundreds of Norwegian farms. My simple question is: can the Council of State take care of the Centre Party and Norwegian agriculture and say that it will not be appropriate to give another country tariff-free quotas to sell food to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e295	Now it has been the fact that the Central Party and the representative are really in trouble for the United Kingdom to leave the EU, and now we are negotiating with one of our biggest trading partners on other industrial products as well. Now we're doing that in the brexit negotiations. This applies to fisheries, but there is a lot of other industry as well. So brexit is about very, very many things. What I can say is that from my point of view as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I am going to fight to the end to care for both Norwegian agriculture, Norwegian agricultural interests and Norwegian production on Norwegian soil and Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e302	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e307	There is a lot of work to do in the center, but we don't want to take the brexit all the time. Government wrote in a letter to Stortinget: ‘The size may be certain that the government will continue to focus on Norwegian agricultural protection needs in all future negotiations, irrespective of who the counterparty is.’ When I hear the answer here today, it may seem that this is more the Council of State's view and not the government's view and something the whole government is behind. It's no secret that there's an inconsistency within the government on this matter, but it's starting to rush. The agreement is to be discussed in Stortinget before the summer. Time is running out, and it's starting to rush. I'm not going to ask about the content of the negotiations, but my question is really: is there intense negotiations over the North Sea with the United Kingdom, or is it that the front now stands between the parties in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e322	I don't want to describe any discussions within the government here, but I can say that for agriculture and for what is in Granavolden's part, we have said that we want to take care of Norwegian agriculture, we want to safeguard import protection, and we want to safeguard customs protection. This in itself says something about the responsibility we as the government have for caring for Norwegian agricultural interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e327	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e332	I find it interesting that the Council of State cannot answer whether there are negotiations with the British now, or whether this is a matter that goes internally within the government. I don't ask what the fronts are in the government – I choose to speculate on – but what I mean is that the Stortinget, who is waiting for this case, must be able to clarify in: Are there negotiations? Is it a meeting? Does the Minister of Agriculture meet with his colleagues in the United Kingdom? Has anyone from the government met? Or is it that there is now a draft that one discusses in the Norwegian Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e337	That's how you have negotiations. That's what we're doing. That is why I cannot say anything about what is in the negotiations. It is the Minister of Industry and the Ministry of Industry who coordinate those negotiations, but it is clear that agriculture is also concerned with its interests in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e342	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e347	Thomas Seltzer’s UXA documentary on the NRK shows how bad things have gone in the country that many from Norway traveled to to to improve their condition, where there has been a strong concentration of power in the production of food, and where the centralisation and impoverishment of what was family agriculture leads to a production based on increasingly social dumping and low-paid labour. The model of giving the greatest power and resources is the same model that Sylvi Listhaug led, and the policy that Olug Bollestad administers. I am approached by several KrFs and former KrFs who are dismayed at why it is not possible to settle with that policy, and why it is in practice Sylvi Listhaug who is to determine the direction of such an important policy area. Why has the Minister of Agriculture not taken advantage of the real majority in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e354	This Council of States does not govern a former Council of States. One governs that policy you believe in. If the representative goes in and looks at what has been done, at least in the settlements for which I have been responsible, he should see that less use is supported, that less dairy farming is supported, that subsidies are granted for less use. One has turned to channelling precisely to exploit Norwegian resources. So the representative should go back in the story and look at: who has had most mergers for large use with over 70 cows? Is it under this government, or was it under the previous government? In fact, the representative has to read a little earlier in history or just go a long way back in the story of what has happened in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e363	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e368	In any case, the United Kingdom needs to know whether it is the position of the government, or of the Minister of Agriculture, that there should be no weakening of Norwegian customs protection in the negotiations with the United Kingdom and the EU after Brexit. The second thing that needs to be answered is whether the Council of State sees the need to reform agricultural policy to stop attracting young people into it to invest far beyond their ability and far beyond the sustainability of what is going on in agriculture today. A lot of people are now in debt far above the ear, and the bigger it gets, the more support they need to get it around. We have to kind of turn this around. Does the Council have a plan to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e375	Firstly, I replied earlier that in the case of the brexit negotiations, the Granavolden Declaration is at the heart of it. The Granavolden Declaration states that we must ensure Norwegian import protection and Norwegian customs protection. There's the government behind it. In terms of structure, this government has done a great deal to support the smaller uses, both with subsidies to milk producers, grants for grazing and the use of land and grants for investment. We've turned this over to the smaller ones just to make sure it's possible to live on smaller units.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e382	We're going to the next main question, asked by Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e392	It's the first time I see a representative closest to the city up the council for a dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e397	On Monday evening, the UN Secretary-General sent out a very serious message to the world: we are running out of time in the fight against the climate crisis. Although the coronary apathy has put aeroplanes on the ground and reduced emissions, it has not slowed down climate change's merciless behaviour. 2020 was one of the hottest years ever. 2021 will have to be the year of action to protect people from the catastrophic effects of climate change. It was the Secretary-General's clear message to the world's leaders. On 19 November 2020, the government released 136 blocks to oil companies. This is one of the largest calls on the Norwegian base ever, if not the largest one. Oil and gas production from these fields will take place in the period during which world emissions will be reduced to zero. In this period, therefore, today's government will pump up oil and gas, with large greenhouse gas emissions as a result, in contravention of the UN Secretary-General's message. So my question is, will the very serious message from the Secretary-General of the United Nations that the world is running out of time in the fight against the climate crisis get anything to say about the large-scale oil and gas plans of the government and the extent of the 25th concession round?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e406	Let me start by thanking you for being invited to dance – on this important topic that I and the representative have discussed many times before, and that we really never get enough of discussing, for good reason. For the representative starts with a description that I share: we have a bad time, we know that the pandemic may have done the job of reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally, but hopefully not. Fortunately, we have seen that there are a lot of people who have just used the pandemic as a reason to bet on green conversion and to be serious about the plans they've had. So even though things don't go fast enough, I think there's a lot of positive moves globally too, but it needs to be done more if we're going to have a chance to achieve the goals. It is a well-known case that SV wants us to stop producing oil and gas in Norway in the long term. My approach to this is still, as it has been in previous debates, that in order for this to have any effect, you have to work on the demand side globally. It won't have anything to say that we stop producing in Norway if you don't do anything about the demand for oil and gas globally, so that's where we have to put the effort. Then I think it is nice that the representative assumes that we should find, develop and produce from all the areas included in the 25th round, but that is not certain. It is also the case that the production on a Norwegian base is going to slow down. It's going to fall by as much as 65 pst, according to the perspective statement. by 2050. So if we don't find any more, if we don't develop any more findings, that case might be even more dramatic, because in that number there are also assumptions that you should look for something more. So this picture that we've never produced more, and that we're just going to keep producing more and more, that doesn't match the reality of Norwegian base today. But I agree that we need to reduce the demand for fossil energy globally in order to achieve the climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e417	I expect that when the Council of State releases 136 blocks of exploration, many of which are in vulnerable areas, it is with a goal of finding more fossil energy and extending the oil age. Yesterday, however, Prime Minister Boris Johnson in the United Kingdom announced that the British will raise the standard in the fight against the climate crisis. The British are now aiming to cut emissions by 78 pst. by 2035. The Norwegian Government's objective is to cut emissions by 50-55 pst. Although the Minister for Oil and Energy is not the Minister for Climate Change, she is responsible for the desiderate largest emissions from Norway. The question is: is it relevant for the Norwegian Government to follow the example of the British in the climate struggle and raise Norwegian climate targets as much? And how much oil and energy does the Minister of Energy think oil companies have to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e424	First of all, as the representative says, I have to say, I said that I am happy that the representative assumes that we need to find something in all of these areas we wanted to, but it is not likely that we will. But exploration policy is the backbone of Norwegian petroleum policy. We have to have an active search policy, we have to make the area available to the industry if you want to maintain this industry. Then it's completely fair that SV doesn't want it. That's what the government wants, because this means enormous value creation for the country. There are many, many jobs, plus that this industry is involved in the green transition at, among other things. to be the ones that are going to be the drivers within the ocean winds, the ones that are going to be the drivers within the hydrogen, which is something else the world is going to need in large volume if we're going to have the chance to achieve the climate targets. To the specific question of raising the Norwegian climate target: I am happy to discuss the climate, but I think I will leave that very discussion to the climate minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e431	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Haltbrecken.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e436	Let's drill a little bit more into the government's oil policy. Last summer, the bulk of the population agreed on a very modest tax package for oil companies. The tax rebates contributed to record low Equinor tax payments in the first quarter of this year. The temporary amendments to the oil tax apply to all oil and gas projects which have submitted a plan for development and operation, PUD, by 1 January 2023 and which have been approved by 2024. How long does the government think it is right to allow oil companies to have such favourable tax rules for projects submitted within the time limits applicable to the tax reliefs granted in the very favourable oil tax package last summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e441	There's a lot that's happened this year, which makes it almost difficult to remember how the situation was actually last year, when this happened. But it was dramatic. It was bomb stop worldwide. There were lots of good, robust projects on the Norwegian base that were in danger of being delayed or stopped as a result of what happened globally around the pandemic. So that the Storting managed to gather about a temporary and limited tax solution for this industry, when the Storting also managed to do it for many other industries that had it difficult, I am very pleased. I think that's right. I am not afraid that we will see so-called unprofitable projects being driven forward by this package. On the contrary, we see that the projects that have benefited from it are projects that were planned in any case, in which there is good profitability, and on which we avoided delays. It means jobs, it means keeping the wheels going, and it's important. But as I said, the package is limited, it doesn't last forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e451	My question goes to the district minister. Travel life is important for Norway. Travel life stood for 59 billion dollars. kr in export income in 2019. The employment rate was 170 000 – yes 7 out of 100 jobs in Norway were in the traveling life. I say was, because the SSB has documented that one in three jobs are already gone. The working party believes that the government's compensation for travel life is too poor. In particular, it affects small and medium-sized players, who have less access to loans and equity than the large ones. The travel life creates a home in our entire country – the good restaurant, the special hotel with the good breakfast, the good experience actor. Reason two go and settled for us who live there. The April NHO Travel Life Member Survey shows that half of all travel businesses have been compensated for less than 20 pst. of its expenditure. The Corona has been for a long time, and the longer that goes, the less equity is left in the corporations and the heavier the debt. The Workers' Party has proposed to the Storting that holdings particularly affected by infectious diseases measures should receive 20 pst. of its turnover before the corona, in addition to the government compensation scheme. The District Minister has been out in all the country's newspapers, big and small, and said that it is the money that the state grants to the municipalities that will save travel life. What assessment has the Council of State and the government made of how many of the travel-life jobs you can save with the money that the government has channelled through the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e467	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the representative addresses the extreme challenges of travel, which are caused by the pandemic. It is an industry that, unfortunately, like several other industries, has been hit very hard. They've been from the pandemic, and they're still going to be. And unfortunately, I think we're going to see the effects and consequences of the pandemic on the travel industry for years to come. But the government has assisted in several ways. First of all, we have the national compensation scheme that goes to our entire business life, where we now, I think, have paid out almost $9.8 billion. kr. As the representative is involved, we also have the local compensation scheme for the municipalities, where travel companies or accommodation and catering facilities in the municipalities that are severely affected have been transferred for 2.6 billion. kr. So we're doing a lot to provide the travel businesses with liquidity. But there are also other areas that are important, for example: rules on perms, sick pay and care allowances, there are pay-as-you-go schemes, there is travel tax, there is suspension of the payment of taxes and taxes, there is a discharge of loans, there are also other concrete measures that we have tried to help with to the best of our ability and in very close dialogue with travel life, so that they are now able to keep their heads above the water – but also help to change, so that when the borders are opened and the guests are back, we will have to have a powerful travel life that is ready. But we also said that we should help the companies as long as this pandemic is on, and that also applies to the travel industry, which, I would stress again, needs good help because they are particularly hard hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e476	In Oslo, the service industry has received 227 million. kr in compensation for November, December, January and February. The turnover in the same period is SEK 2.23 billion. kr. Those who have listened know that many in Oslo fear their work and their work of life. The ban and the closure have caused a large part of the government's debt to be paid by this industry – the virtue in which we all had to put up for the protection of infection. They have covered a fraction of their losses, and the municipal arrangement for the same period in Oslo is 150 million. kr. If they also got 20 pst. of the pre-corona turnover, there would be compensation on which it is possible to survive. That is what we in the Labour Party think is a good idea. Maybe more companies could have reopened when we're all going to be able to go out again in Oslo? Perhaps more employees and business owners could look forward to the summer? Will the Council of State consider whether it is fairer to give better compensation to those specifically affected by infectious diseases?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e481	Yes, but so do we. In connection with the $1.75. kr, which was paid on 25 February and a week ago, we paid particular attention to municipalities that are particularly hard hit by §5a. This makes the big cities particularly good – Oslo, Trondheim, Stavanger, the larger cities around the country. It was also after recording meetings with the City Councillor and the City Council for Nutrition in Oslo, that we stressed that municipalities where, in particular, the catering industry and the overnight business for many months have been hit so hard, need extra funds. At the same time, we also prioritised the smallest district councils, which are particularly hard hit by complete closure for the other Easter in a row. My impression is that they're $1.75 billion. NOK that was paid out in the last round was very well received by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e488	There will be follow-up questions – first Åsunn Lyngedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e493	Of course they are. It's a fraction of the losses these travel businesses are sitting on, but everyone is happy with the money coming. After all, holdings that were just started when the corona hit are the hardest hit. They do not receive any compensation for fixed costs. That is why the Workers ’ Party has proposed that a valve be provided — a state scheme to be applied for, so that viable start-ups can be saved. The government's answer has been this money to the municipalities, which we know is too few. To Elise from Marius is located in the town of Rana. Marius had worked at some of Norway's best restaurants, and in 2018 he and Elise opened a fantastic accommodation and catering offer based on locally produced food. They invested and invested heavily towards 2020. They had not sanctioned anyone before the national grant ban in March of this year. Then they closed, after losing more than 1 million. NOK only in 2021. For the same months, the municipality of Rana has received 2.4 million. kr in total to help their enterprises. I believe the Council of State that there could have been an idea of a state scheme for entrepreneurs who do not depend on whether their municipality receives NOK 250 000 or SEK 150 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e502	I'd like to remind you that in connection with the over 2.6 billion. kr we have transferred to the municipalities, we have left it up to the municipalities to find out which companies in their municipalities they want to support, precisely because we believe that it is the municipal politicians who are closest to the local companies and are able to make that assessment. Then the government has also announced that in the revised national budget we will propose a new 500 million. kr, to be transferred to the municipalities. We have not yet established this device, precisely because we have seen that we need these valve arrangements. We see that the pandemic is evolving, and that there are rapid changes. So we've been waiting to define what the last 500 million. kr shall apply, provided that the size is agreed. The question to the representative is absolutely relevant, and is something I would like to include in the work we are doing when we are now creating a new framework for transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e509	Åsunn Lyngedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e514	The White House in Hadsel opened a month before the shutdown. They're not against the national ban, but it shut down the White House. The Workers' Party believes it is unfair that entrepreneurs and growing businesses, which have invested in quality but are shut down, should stand without the support of us, the big community, when they need protection. None of these are going to change their mind to do anything else. That's the best cook in the country we're talking about. They give us a reason to travel, which I've been in, and the people of the Westphalia are very proud of the White House, as the ravings are it of To Elise of Marius. They're closed, and they're afraid of losing employees. The municipality of Hadsel has received 743 000 kroner to help the White House and all other companies they have. They have lost NOK 150 000 every month in 2020, without getting any help. Does the Council of State think that the municipal system can save these businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e521	No, I don't mean that – not alone. That's why we have a national compensation scheme, where we've paid out by 10 billion. kr to Norwegian holdings. Then we have these municipal funds, where municipalities have to decide which companies need liquidity and financial support. In addition, we have all the other resources – everything from municipal labour funds, rules for permitting, VAT, suspension of taxes and taxes. There are a lot of measures, but there are still a lot of people who have it difficult. And that's how many people are going to have it in the future. I fully agree with the representative that we need to focus specifically on how to help travel businesses. The smallest, the small, family-run travel businesses – the small actors – are so vulnerable. It may be easier for the larger chains, which can be used by the national systems. But I still hope that municipal funds will help the very least.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e528	Bengt Rune Strifeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e533	I Prop. 79 S for 2020-2021 states that the purpose of the municipal compensation scheme is to improve the ability of municipalities to remedy the situation of local establishments affected by local or national measures for the protection of infection. The NHO Travel Life Membership Survey shows that early March had 78 pst. aid received by member enterprises through the national compensation scheme, while only 25 pst was received by mid-April. by the tourism enterprises which had received support via the municipalities. Feedbacks are that municipalities deal with the distribution of funds in very different ways, from the fact that the available funds have not been made searchable to the enterprises for which the scheme is intended, that there is a lack of involvement of enterprises and business organisations in the design of award criteria, lack of information that the funds are searchable, that application deadlines vary from April to June, only to mention something. Will the Council of State consider clearer national leadership to ensure that the objectives of the scheme are better achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e541	Thank you very much for the question from Strifeldt, which is very topical precisely because it has worried several of us, both politicians in the Progress Party and also in the government, that it may look as if it takes some time before the money is paid out to the companies. The cancelation took its decisions, and the government followed up in a few days to pay out and deposit the money to the municipalities, but on 25 February we saw that it was still not paid out to the companies. On the other hand, the deadline for applications for funding by different enterprises has not even expired. I think it takes some time, and that's exactly why I stressed in the last letter of allocation that the money has to go out quickly, they have to go to the companies that have the most difficulty, who need it the most, and I hope that now also happens. Then I am also concerned about, and I believe, that the municipalities have a good dialogue with their business life, their businesses, so that they help those who have the most difficulty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e546	Bengt Rune Strifeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e551	Experience has so far shown that significantly fewer travel businesses, especially in the north, have benefited from the municipal compensation scheme in relation to the national scheme. As many as 26 out of 39 municipalities in Troms and Finnmark are more dependent on travel life employment than the national average. The shut-down before Easter came as an extra big shock to businesses, especially because they haven't had any sort of infection, and because the infection has been low throughout the region. The award criteria of the compensation scheme are based on unemployment and population numbers. This means that funds available to businesses depend on where you live in the country and not how hard businesses are hit. As long as the municipal compensation scheme is distributed to municipalities on the basis of population and unemployment, Nordic enterprises will have disproportionately little. In addition, the financial assistance provided to enterprises will depend on the municipality to which they belong. Will the Minister for Regional Affairs and Digitalisation consider more accurate criteria to avoid distortions of competition between enterprises and regions and not to harm the tourism industry in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e558	I'm glad there's a lot of commitment to the travel businesses and Norwegian companies here in Stortinget. I have to make it clear that that's not exactly right, what the representative says. The first payment to municipalities was based on unemployment by population. The payment made a week and a half ago was based on the proportion of persons employed in the tourism industry, i.e. serving, overnight stays. That's why the criteria that we've taken into account are just going to try to take into account what the representative says, that we're going to meet those who've had a huge loss of income, that is, the municipalities that are very dependent on the employed in travel life, and especially those with a season only a few months of the year, that it's the ones we're going to help. Although we have now paid out for two rounds in this round, we have announced 500 new millions. So we'll see how they're going to benefit just these businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e563	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e568	SV has been a driver throughout the Korona period in order to provide better support to those affected by the closure, to travel life, restaurants, cultural businesses, taxi drivers, all the small ones who have not received sufficient support. Now it is important not to tear away the support schemes too early, so that businesses get through this and people can get a job again. It is then absolutely necessary to put in place a number of other measures as well. One is decentralised education in the districts. We have to have that now, so that we get skilled workers, and those who have to change jobs get it. We have to put broadband in the districts, so that it works rationally. And finally, we need new support for businesses, for those who now want to stand up, for many have cleaned up completely now, they have no more money left. There is then an aid scheme notified in ESA, namely to provide direct support to small enterprises, to start-up, marketing and investment, as proposed by SV in Stortinget. Will the Council of State now support this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e575	The government has already prioritised conversion grants to enterprises and to municipalities. So I fully agree, I'm particularly concerned about this industry, serving, accommodation and travel, because there are many women, there are many with low education, and there are many in the immigrant population working there. For them, it's hard to find a new job. We have to help them. That's exactly why the government is now, in a short time, putting forward a strategy for decentralised education, because we need to learn more throughout our lives, and these must get the opportunity to change, to move to new industries or new industries. Then I am very pleased that Norway, as one of the few countries in the world, has now presented a very ambitious target, namely that all of Norway, including the districts and scattered areas, will now have access to high-speed broadband. By 2025 there will be high-speed broadband coverage across Norway, and we will now do that, if the Storting supports it, which I hope. This will mean a great deal for business development and new jobs, especially in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e582	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e587	My question also goes to the district minister. In the period 2013–2019, 21 259 more State jobs were created in Norway. At the same time, the number of municipalities was reduced from 422 to 356. A total of 261 of those municipalities had fewer government jobs in 2019 than they had in 2013. In total, these municipalities have lost 9,192 State jobs. In Norway as a whole, employment has increased by 15 pst. in these years. Except for the biggest cities, it's gone down by 13 pst. Last fall, the district industry commission came with its investigation. They went through district policy to look at the importance of business for housing and development throughout Norway. Among the many findings in the investigation, one is particularly interesting. Employment in the public sector, and in particular in the country, is more centralised than in business. It is therefore concluded that employment in the country is more centralised than in the business community, and therefore my question to the Council of State: Does the Council agree with the conclusion of the district industry committee and does the Council have any concrete means of compensating the district councils for the violent centralisation of state jobs they have been hit by in the last eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e598	First, I want to say that the public sector is changing, and it is a good thing that we are participating in the modernisation of the country. It's a decentralization of services we've seen, from people, especially in the district, having to go far to visit an office and get out of work, until they now with some keystrokes log into the hub or the tax haven and fix it from home. This government is not so concerned with the offices themselves. We're busy with good services for people. We also see that centralisation is taking place across Europe. We see people moving into cities. We see that it is important to provide jobs where people are, but it is also important to facilitate them in the district, because it is something about skills jobs. Therefore, the government has been busy moving out more than 1,200 jobs, more than what the Central Party did in the government. We have introduced new guidelines that say that all state activities should be located outside Oslo. But when I went into the numbers, which the Center Party has now been out and marketed throughout the country – 9,000 state jobs closed or moved to Oslo – it was something that surprised me. For what I saw was that out of the 9 000 state jobs, 767 jobs at centrality level 4, 5 and 6, i.e. the most scattered districts in Norway, the county municipalities have closed down, and they have actually moved 1,708 jobs to central city centres 1 and 2, i.e. the cities of Norway. County municipality in Norway – who is it that governs them? Nine out of ten counties are governed by the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. So now it's central party politicians all around the country laying down in the least central strata, moving public jobs to the cities of Norway. That was surprising.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e607	I thank you for the answer, which was really not an answer, at least not for the question. We could have been inside the eight and a half thousand that the government has moved out, and not just the hundreds that the county councils have centralised. In the debate on the Northern Territory Communication earlier this week, the Council of State said that the government should do more of what they're doing, as they know works, and that it's about a formidable bet on decentralisation. It's possible we interpret ‘formible bet’ in different ways, but we can let that lie. One of the measures to which they refer is the relocation of State jobs out of Oslo. We know that the relocation of state jobs is important for the districts and some districts themselves demand. It is right that state jobs have been moved out of Oslo, but does the Council of State believe that the transfer of such jobs to Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger and Kristiansand is a ‘formidable investment’ in District Norway and that it benefits Norwegian district municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e615	I'm very happy that the Center Party is travelling this topic, because the Center Party is dealing with misleading information, they're using the statistics exactly as it suits. Of the 9000 jobs that the Centre Party is talking about, nearly 3,000 actually apply to the transfer of employees from Fredrikstad to Sarpsborg – i.e. in the same area. Many, many of those jobs relate to Oslo, because the NRK has been reclassified from a public owned company to the state sector. The workplaces are still in Oslo, but they are now in a way centralised and moved. The state Road Administration has moved and changed classification, and it has referred to 2000 jobs that have moved from the country to the county municipalities. I hope the Center Party can be a little more honest in the future, especially against the election campaign, and actually tell what's hiding behind these numbers. When they tell about almost death in the districts and massive centralization, the picture is quite much more nuanced than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e622	There will be follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e627	Now I asked if she thought that moving out to Trondheim and Bergen was a district policy, but there's certainly no point in asking again, because the Council of State probably doesn't come up with the question anyway. So I can try something else. The housing market poses challenges in both rural and urban areas. When asked if there are important reasons for recruitment challenges, a total of 25 psts respond. the lack of access to suitable housing is an important cause of the regional recruitment challenge. One of the reasons is the lack of housing for sale or rent, but a main reason is the price of building and the market price is below the cost price. The district committee concludes that many district municipalities have uniform, small and stagnating housing markets and that construction costs are very high in relation to the housing value. Does this mean that people do not receive loans for more people to establish themselves in the districts? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e636	The number is out. The President is very pleased with the commitment to the Question Time, but it should happen within the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e641	The question from the representative now last I actually answered in my first answer, because I said that the government has new guidelines. All location of new activities shall be located outside Oslo and the other major cities. We are concerned that the new businesses being set up should be established around the country, but also linked to housing and agglomerations, which are about cities and agglomerations that can be built up and be power centers in their districts. We build skills environments with workplaces and with decentralised education, which we believe will make a major contribution to activity around the districts. In the case of housing, many people are concerned about it. That is why I have just had a meeting with the House Bank and the District Centre and I have been very clear that the loan arrangements specifically targeted at people in the districts need to be made better known, because the House Bank has to take regional policy considerations into account in lending. [[President clubs]] It's important that people have knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e650	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e655	When I got another question, I try again. Now it's like the government has moved out a lot of jobs. They have moved out the workplaces substantially to Trondheim, Bergen, Stavanger and Kristiansand. Does the Council of State believe that this is part of the government's district policy? I'm very pleased with new jobs to Trondheim, but I don't want to call it district policy. And does the Council of State think that relocation from Oslo to other major cities in Norway benefits Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e660	The premise on which this question is based is completely wrong, and if not the Senter party itself has gone in and looked at what happened under their government, I recommend that they do so. The growth of state jobs that have moved to the larger cities of Norway has flattened under this government. The growth is smaller than when the Senter party was in government. We see that it is still such that the state jobs that were established with the Central Party in government went to the public administration and to the bureaucracy in Oslo. This government prioritises government employees related to the health sector, with several nurses, the UH sector with more teachers and more policemen. While the Center Party and the Workers' Party in the government prioritised state jobs and growth in bureaucracy and public administration, we prioritise getting more warm hands, more who can work out in the service and help people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e667	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e672	Summer work and the first job experience are often crucial for getting work experience and entering the workplace and getting income security for very many years to come. Yes, for some people actually decide whether they become part of the working life on a permanent basis. Only half of the country's 17-year-olds get summer jobs now. The SSB’s reviews show that social and economic differences are increasing in this area. Young people who come from a good economy have access to more jobs through their parents’ business networks. So at this point, too, our youth from home with the usual economy, or lower incomes, becomes down-prioritized, and a new class division arises. Now it's over a year since the country shut down for the first time. The working party has been crystal clear all the way. When part of our business needs several thousand hands to work quickly, we have to make sure that we link business needs with all those young people who deserve a legal entrance ticket and their first meeting with Norwegian employment. Nevertheless, farmers report the lack of dozens of workers for this season. On 23 February, at NRK Dagsnytt 18, Minister of Labour Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said about the Workers' Party's proposal to recruit Nav at the secondary schools: 'Nav must be on the job. I think this is a good proposal from the Workers' Party." Tomorrow, the Christian People's Party and Right are voting down that very proposal, and the crisis is still here. Why can't Nav recruit students in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e685	First, I wasn't part of that debate with Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, but I'm incredibly concerned that Norwegian youth will get a job, and I take responsibility for my field. Yes, many are lacking in Norwegian agriculture. Even I have four kids, and several of them have worked in Norwegian agriculture for many years because Norwegian agriculture needs continuity, they need people who are trained and who can be for a while, in the same way as other jobs, in health. The fact that one is a summer week year after year means that one acquires a good competence from which the employer benefits and who feels that one of the employees benefits when one has the job. So that engagement I completely share. Then, for 2021, a new labour market measure has been introduced in the form of grants to employers, including farmers, who take on young jobseekers in summer jobs, precisely because we see that this is incredibly important. It's going to be a communication offer that makes an actual conveyer of summer jobs, including in agriculture, important to farmers, but not least to young people. Campaigns are planned through the workplace.no, just to ensure young workers’ summer jobs in Norwegian agriculture. But this does not save everything in Norwegian agriculture, because they have had people with good competence over the years – and I'm talking about acquired competence – on what to do at any time in agriculture. We can't get rid of that competence. This competence is extremely important for agriculture to have both production and to be able to actually regain what they invest in the planting they do every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e697	This was not an answer to the question at all, and it shows why the problem is still unresolved. My question was why Nav can't get the opportunity to actively go to high school and recruit. That's the problem. When I've talked to people on the ground plane in Nav, they say the following: Nav recruits among those who are registered as unemployed at Nav from before, or among those who are on action at Nav. It's one group. In addition to that, we need to think about youth in general. There is a lot of fresh youth in Norway that can contribute to strawberry ploughing. Of course, if the government wanted this to be a simple task, and it is not now useful – over a year after the closure – to talk about a planning campaign at the workplace.no. If we had run the country this way after the repatriation after the war, Finnmark would still have been completely broken. Can't the Christian People's Party now support the Workers' Party's proposal that Nav go to high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e704	The President would point out that Nav is probably not within the constitutional remit of this Council of State, but leaves it to the Council of State to consider responding to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e709	As the Council of State, I intended to say it initially in my reply, but I am interested in responding. It's important for the Christian People's Party, and I've been sitting on the Stortinget as a representative, but it's also important for the government to get Norwegian youth to work. So let's use Nav. Agriculture organisations in each region use Nav to recruit, and then they use the workplace.no, and then they use the contact networks they have to get jobs for those who need it. But we also see that agriculture itself says that despite the fact that there are many unemployed, they do not get the skills they need, and I think the representative, who is also sitting on the nutrition committee, will listen to the farmers. They need skills over time, and we can give them to Norwegian youth by actually recruiting them over time. So I have to say, many of these kids are going to be at school when we get to August, and when we get to September – when the harvest is at the biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e714	There will be follow-up questions – first Nils Kristen Sandtrøen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e719	This has become an incredible story. In retrospect, one would wonder how this was done, that we were unable to do such a simple task as recruiting young people for strawberry picking and other basic tasks in our food production. Even my meeting with the labour force was just with agriculture, with feed production, for milk production and to be in the mountains on sheep grazing. The Labour Party's proposal also has one more point that is very important, and that is that we say that support for training must take place on the farms, with the production to be done. A youth such as shall cut onions, need a different training from that of a youth to guess the pups in the mountains of this spring and summer. It's where it's so amazing that we can't manage to gather on the Storting about a simple, practical and clearly sensible policy that both helps business at a demanding stage and helps many thousands of young people. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see that we are now shoving away many important opportunities to help young people who have met the hard times during the Korona?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e730	I do not know if the representative got what I initially answered. Contributions have been made to employers who want to take up young people for summer work. That means it's an incentive to take in youth for summer jobs. I have also worked both on the farm and had kids who have done so, but I also see that many farmers think in the long term. There are farmers who think long-term and say that we should have x the number of Norwegian youth in every single year on our farm to ensure recruitment, but also to ensure knowledge and make extensive experience and work experience with Norwegian farmers. It's a long-term job, but I know that a lot of Norwegian farmers are doing it. I share the commitment to getting in Norwegian youth. We're doing a lot of that, and we're doing it with the additions, which I've said to the representative here a lot of times.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e742	Nils Kristen Sandtrøen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e747	If that was all that the Minister of Agriculture said now, then everything should be taken care of for this season. But you can just look up in any local way, you can see that there's still a need to recruit young people. Then we could expect that if we now together said that now is the youth's turn, that it is the youth's turn to get work experience, self-confidence and income, we could sort this out together in a simple and unbureaucratic way on the Storting. It's sometimes it would have been nice if you could just put the performance aside and say that we're doing this together. It is still possible to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal tomorrow, which ensures that Nav can go to secondary schools and ensure simple and unbureaucratic support for farm training, so that we do not still have this deficit when summer comes. It'll be an incredible story for the afterlife if that deficiency continues to persist.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e754	I have great respect for the job done at the farms. I have so much respect for that job that I also see that many tasks need special skills for which we are not going to germinate. I also see that some tasks we can really give to young people, but under training, because there are machines, there are skills that are needed, there is experience to be transferred, and it takes time. That means we're not going to get rid of that. But I don't think the challenge that Norwegian agriculture now faces, just solved by summer vicars, by Norwegian youth. I think we need to think much more long-term than that in order to create a stability. It's agriculture itself, and I'll be there to cheer it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e759	With that, the oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e773	There is one change in the questionnaire. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list in the salapp. The change was as follows: Question no. 11, from the representative of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen to the Minister for Culture and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e785	‘A report that examined the alert sent last autumn on the irresponsible working environment among police lawyers in the East Police District is now ready. This concludes that some employees have worked under unfair working conditions. The majority of the lawyers say to the NRK on 15 April that the report shows that there is still a breach of the Working Environment Act. Will the Council of State implement measures to improve the working conditions of police lawyers in the East Police District but also in other parts of the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e792	Of course, I am familiar with the warning case in East Police District and that it has been completed. There was therefore no basis for claiming that the prosecution lawyers generally have an irresponsible working environment contrary to the requirements of the Working Environment Act. Then, for the sake of cleanliness, I would like to mention that the East Police Commissioner is a close acquaintance of mine, but quite independently, it is such that alert cases need to be dealt with and followed up locally, perhaps in cooperation with the POD. I also take that into account in this case. I cannot comment on the specific warning matter beyond that. A well-functioning prosecution authority at all stages is essential for good and effective criminal proceedings. The government takes seriously that the number of serious and resource-intensive criminal cases has increased. Therefore, there has also been a strengthening of investigation and prosecution in the police for several years. From 31 December 2013 to 31 October 2020, the number of prosecutors in the police increased from approximately 620 to around 800 annual works. This corresponds to an increase of approx. 30 pst. The number of prosecutors has increased in all police districts during the period, and by comparison the increase in the Oslo police district has been 35 p.m. and in Eastern police districts of 50 p.m., or in fact more than 50 p.m. Despite a particular and very challenging year due to the pandemic and the infectious diseases it has called for, several of the results of police criminal proceedings are satisfactory. The Ministry directs the Police Directorate by setting targets and requirements at an overall level. Each police officer is responsible for maximising the use of resources as needed and within the framework set by the Police Directorate. It is the police officer in the individual police district who is responsible for the criminal proceedings in his district. As an employer, the Chief of Police is also responsible for ensuring that employees have a sound working environment. In the state budget for 2021, the police budget increased by 39 million. kr to several prosecutors in the police department, which corresponds to approx. 30 new attorneys. The Directorate of Police has been given a mandate to ensure that new posts are created as expected. The Judicial Committee has wanted to make the funding of police lawyers visible. I agree with the committee in that, and we are currently working towards the budget for 2022 to meet it. I'll come back to how it should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e805	Unfortunately, the situation in Eastern police districts is not unique. In both the Inland and the North and South East, police lawyers have expressed challenges with the same labour pressure and similar conditions as in East police districts. There is no new either for the government or for the Police Directorate, and for several years local trustees have tried to say so without improving the situation. In the context of the revised budget in 2020, 13 million were committed. The prosecutors in the police have been earmarked and a plan was presented for 30 new police lawyers in the police in the autumn of 2020. Therefore, the annual report of the police for 2020 shows that it is alarmingly: ‘As a matter of fact, the police prosecution authority has been deprived of competence in the autumn of 2020.’ How is it even possible that police lawyers in the police districts have been weakened when the goal, the intention, has been the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e817	It is true that the funds in the revised charge page were used on the prosecution page, but there were one-off appropriations. It is demanding, and therefore it is used to provide extra resources in terms of overtime and extra work so that you can get the job done down. We see that the result of now, that's very good. Then we've been very clear when we went on with the government budget for this year, that we want to see results in terms of new jobs. We've got that in all the police districts, and we'll see the result when we get new statistics from the Police Directorate. We acknowledge that the prosecution page is under pressure and has been under pressure, and therefore we have systematically invested in both money and employment appropriations so that we can expand the capacity. This is absolutely necessary, and we have also seen this in connection with the developments we have made at the state attorney level and at the court level, so that the whole criminal justice chain is strengthened. It's a wild and wanted policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e824	I have to get back to the starting point of the question, i.e. the situation in the East Police District and the report that is available. In that report, the police chief is also stated, and she says there that if one had been aware that the situation in the prosecution unit was as bad as the union with the police lawyers claimed in the notice, she could have taken another action in addition to what everything had been done. She could, for example, have given authority to resolve several cases for capacity reasons, as has been done in the Oslo Police District. On a general basis: does the Council of State consider the imposition of several cases to be a good way of resolving the labour situation of prosecutors in the country? And will the Council of State possibly accept such a method in the East Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e831	As a general instrument, provision is not the answer, but it should be done when it is justified. Then there are clear priorities from both the government and the national lawyer on which issues should be given priority. However, to settle matters where one sees that there has obviously not been a criminal offence, or where the position of the evidence is of such a nature that there is no basis for further action, is done in the specific case. Of course, having those matters closed down is also a way to build up the balances and get the matter settled for all the people involved, if there are grounds for doing so, but this will depend entirely on the case and the content of a case. That is a concrete assessment. In general, then, the chief of police in each district is responsible for priorities and resource use. That's the situation in all 12 districts. We've strengthened the budgets, and we've strengthened the prosecution page, and that's a work we're of course going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e839	‘The national lawyer is concerned about developments recorded over time for the total percentage of information and before some of the types of crime. The percentage of data for criminal cases has fallen and was 49,4 p.p. in 2020. The Advocate General deems this unacceptable. He writes 'The decline we see in the crimes of violence and sex is considered particularly worrying'. Does the Council of State share the opinion of the Advocate General, and why does it not reduce the length of proceedings and increase the percentage of clarification, which was among the intentions of the ‘near-police reform’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e846	From 2016 to 2020, the overall clearance rate for criminal cases has fallen from 53 to 49 pst. This is too low. I expect the police to work to increase the percentage of information. There's also some reason why the government has granted 83 million. SEK in 2020 and another 39 million. NOK 2021 to increase the capacity of investigation and prosecution. However, it is worth recalling that the police are dealing with far more complex crime now than before. This applies in particular to digital crime and online sexual offences, but also to major fraud cases and cases of international bias or origin. This is a crime that has not been revealed in the past to the same extent, and has thus gone under the radar of the police. We don't want that, and it affects the percentage of information. The capacity survey on investigation shows that serious crime is more resource-intensive to investigate than many others, less serious, crimes. The investigation shows that police use one third of the total investigation capacity on the most serious cases, which in turn represent as little as 3 pst. - 30 pst. of the resources of 3 pst. of the most serious cases. At the same time, I believe that this is an entirely correct priority. There has been a decrease in the number of reviews of about 11 pst. Since 2016, mainly related to winning and drug law offences. These are often simpler issues that are usually decided quickly, and the decline in this type of case has therefore led to some increase in the overall duration of proceedings. Before 2020, there was an increase in the number of unclaimed balances, which also contributed to an increase in the length of proceedings. By 2020, there will be a reduction in the overall duration of proceedings and in the course of proceedings related to sexual offences and the types of cases of rape and abuse in close relations. It's a good development, and it's constantly working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e865	I thank you for your answer. In the near-police reform, it says: ‘The objective of the new local police force is to be operational, visible and accessible by the police with the capacity to investigate and prosecute criminal acts.’ Now there are probably only a few politicians from the Right Party and the Progress Party again who believe that the police have been more operational, visible and available in the last few years, but that the capacity to investigate and prosecute criminal acts has clearly been worse, is alarming. The Riksadvokat further writes: ‘The greatest decrease was within sexual offences falling by 6,7 percentage points compared to 2019. The percentage of disclosure of the acts of violence has been reduced by 2 percentage points in the same period.’ It is strange that the issues that both the Council of State itself and its predecessors pointed to as the highest priority have the worst developments. I hear the Council of State say that something has been better, and I also understand that the government likes to boast about its policy. But the council really thinks that this thing that I'm referring to right now is good enough, and what will she do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e882	I hear that the representative wants to turn the clock back to the time when the police were better at investigating profit crime than sexual offences. I think I have to remind you of the big things we've seen in recent years. They're big, they're complex, they're probably dealing with hundreds of victims. It is very important that the police are now able to handle these kinds of issues, and that is because we have implemented a police reform. We have improved quality, we have received similar treatment, but things today are not comparable to things ten years ago. Then we could give priority to resolving as many issues as possible related to drugs and profits, but we are therefore giving priority to the most serious issues and spending the most resources on them. I think it's a desirable development. At the same time, however, I believe that the percentage of information needs to be reduced, and the time has to go down. That's why we've been investing in it over the last few years' budgets, and we're going to see results from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e889	The council does not listen when I refer to the Riksadvokat criticising the follow-up to sexual and violent crime – that it is too bad, and that the percentage of information has fallen. I would like the Council of State to at least try to understand that unfortunately the situation is not getting any better with this government, but on the contrary, even with these serious offences. When it comes to ICT crime, there is also a tendency from the government to boast that everything has been better there. It's great that some police districts make a very important effort, but we know it's different around the country. From the State Attorney's inspection in the South-East Police District in November, it appears that ‘the creation of an investigation team for Internet-related offences is due to the economy of the district’. Why is there a need, for example, for: abuse of children on the Internet managed so differently from district to district, and why does not all police districts have investigation capacity against online abuse after changing ministers of justice have talked about this for nearly eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e898	We can discuss who listens to who. If the representative listened to the answer in my second sentence in the first answer, she heard: This is too low. So I agree that this is too low, I agree that it has to go up, but I also agree that you can't compare apples and bananas. Comparing one case with another almost doesn't work, and in the case of sexual offences, we know that those cases have become much bigger, they have become more complicated and require a lot more resources. The resources, the quality and the methods have all the police districts now, and although organised in different ways, it is not that some police districts do not investigate child abuse online. Of course, all police districts do, but they organize differently, and that's up to the chief of police to assess. Then the police have been budget wins over the last few years. We've done massively with both people and money, just to equip the police for the new tasks and new forms of crime they're facing. We're going to see results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e908	‘Gravid women have been waiting for the opportunity to get NIPT, as the majority of the Stortinget decided they should. The Socialist Left Party wants a public offer, but we understand that it can take longer. Before it is in place, it must be possible to purchase NIPT in Norway, not in Sweden as others have done before. NIPT was permitted by law in Norway from 1 July 2020. After nearly one year, an authorisation scheme was established. I have not found any private institutions that can and will offer this help that has now been approved. When can women receive this service in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e915	I just want to stress first that NIPT is offered as a test in Norway and has been done for several years, after I approved this test for use in maternity care on terms and conditions. Then it is that the Ministry of Health and Welfare, by Decision 18 March of this year, has amended the conditions of use of NIPT to detect trisomi 13, 18 and 21. From April, NIPT may be offered to all pregnant women, regardless of the age of the pregnant woman or any other condition that may affect the risk of trisomi in the foetus. Thus, the condition that the pregnant woman must have first taken a KUB test and been shown to have a high risk of trisomi in the foetus has been lifted. Establishments wishing to offer NIPT must be approved by the Health Directorate. The Directorate has drawn up, on behalf of the Ministry, a system of approval for private enterprises wishing to offer NIPT. The approval system was established on 1 April. In order to ensure a professionally sound offer, it shall be made, inter alia: requirements for ultrasonic competence and for the activity to have medical-genetic competence. Establishments will initially receive a time-limited approval. Permanent approval will be granted after the evaluation of the approval system. Evaluation will take place, among others: by reviewing the report of the establishment to the Directorate under the Biotechnology Act. Private institutions wishing to offer NIPT can now apply to the Health Directorate for approval. An application form listing the conditions under which the establishment has to document in order to obtain an authorisation is available on the website of the Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e926	I have called many of these women who should have been offered the NIPT, and I have not seen any institutions that would like to help these women have been allowed to give it, even after 1 April. For SV, it's the woman's choice, not the politicians' choice. Then I've talked to many of these women. Lene wrote: I have been rejected several places I have contacted with the wish to take a blood test. It feels very uncomfortable to be told that they cannot or are not allowed to help, even if they may want to. Then I would like to ask, when will the Health Directorate accept that any of these private companies can make this offer? They've been waiting, pregnant women have been waiting. Now it has to get into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e935	It is as soon as the directorate can approve qualified applicants, and applicants can now apply. Then it is important for me to stress that the Stortinget when one decided to open up to NIPT in Norway had some very clear requirements for quality. This isn't just a blood test. This concerns both the tests to be carried out prior to the blood test and, not least, the ability to provide good guidance to the woman in question both in advance of the study and when the study results are available. I would like to stress most strongly the importance of the ability and competence of those who are going to offer this, including the private sector, to care for the pregnant woman in a good way. If not, this will be something quite different than what I perceive the Stortinget saw by itself when one opened up to the NIPT.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e942	I very much agree with the Minister of Health that there were good comments from SV, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party. We've written very carefully what's going to happen. Then we know that many of these institutions are clear. They've been waiting for months. I'm worried that the government will just postpone it over and over and over again. Another woman I've talked to, Sofia, all these names are anonymous names, have had more spontaneous boards, and she's very scared. She has tried to get help, but did not get it. She traveled to Sweden under the pandemic. There are several of these women who have travelled to Sweden under the pandemic. They're so scared, and they don't get an offer in Norway. So it happens. When will the Health Directorate accept that these institutions, which have all the knowledge they need, can offer this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e951	I am a little surprised that the representative believes he has the opportunity to assess whether these institutions are qualified. At least I don't have any options. They'll have to prove that through the application. This is not about the directorate accepting or not accepting. The Directorate does a job that they are set to do, where Stortinget, including the representative, has set some very clear demands on how this should be done. I cannot accept that a person is trying to present it as if the director does not do his job, and that they have a resistance to this. That's not right. On the contrary, the directorate has prioritised high progress in this matter, under a pandemic where the representative is very well aware that the directorate has a significantly higher workload than usual. It requires dealing with a national crisis. Despite that, the directorate and the government have prioritised progress in this matter. Then I do not think it is right that it is presented from Stortinget's pulpit as if neither the government nor the directorate were dragging their feet in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e961	‘In an interview with NRK Dagsrevyen on 4 April, John Bolton, former US Security Consultant, Norway, warns against concluding a trade agreement with China. He believes that China is an existential threat to Western democracies and threatens «the whole spectrum of our interests». For several years negotiations have taken place between Norway and China on a free trade agreement. What does the Foreign Minister think about John Bolton's warning, and will she continue the negotiations on a free trade agreement despite China's worrying developments?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e968	I would first like to draw attention to the fact that it is the Ministry of Food and Fisheries that has the constitutional responsibility for the free trade negotiations, but I still think I will say something about this because of the context. China's growth has created a more complicated geopolitical backbone and is clearly facing new challenges. We are closely following possible security policy implications of China's growing global role, not least in the cyber field and in terms of regional tensions. There are also, as the representative is well aware, discussions in NATO about the role of China. At the same time, it is important to cooperate with China, both in order to safeguard Norwegian interests and to address global challenges. China is an important market for Norwegian business and an important supplier of consumer goods and inputs to our industry. China’s size and growth make a significant contribution to the world economy, and trade with China poses economic, security and political challenges. We have to deal with that, completely independent of a free trade agreement. The Security Act allows us to stop foreign investments and establishments that are contrary to Norwegian security interests, and a free trade agreement will not weaken this possibility. Norway is an open economy, and China is therefore largely free to export to us. For Norwegian business, the difference would be that a free trade agreement involves a commitment by China to lower tariffs and the opening of the market for services that go beyond what they have committed themselves to through the World Trade Organisation. Other allies are also seeking to develop their economic cooperation with China. The EU and China recently agreed on an investment agreement that will open China up more to EU companies but also bring China closer international cooperation for sustainability goals and employee rights. Our EFTA partners Switzerland and Iceland have long had free trade agreements with China. Japan, Korea, Australia and New Zealand will participate in the RCEP Asian Free Trade Agreement with China and ASEAN countries. The administration of Bolton was part of the US, negotiated a phase 1 agreement with China. We have briefed both the previous and the current US administration on the agreement negotiations between Norway and China, and the US authorities have not raised concerns related to the negotiations. For the government, it is a clear premise that a free trade agreement with China must serve Norwegian economic interests and not contribute to weakening the agreed multilateral commitments Norway and China have already undertaken, or Norway’s security.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e985	The Minister of Foreign Affairs may not be able to respond differently, but it is clear that a free trade agreement with China cannot be seen regardless of what else China is doing, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. Clearly, this is related. China is increasingly strong, with increasingly threatening behaviour internationally, and so it has, among other things. have been because they have economic growth, and because they have been trading with the rest of the world. You don't get it on your own. It is clear that this must be seen in the context. Clearly, the new administration is so tough on China – it has nothing to do with the previous administration – not least in the US defence of Taiwan, the defence of Japan, where they have wanted Japan to cut out Huawei. The United States has virtually forbidden Huawei to exist on American territory with its 5G network, so it's clear that this is not something we can have, regardless of it. If the Americans ask us to close these negotiations, will Norway do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e992	As I was a little bit involved in my post, China is Norway's largest trading partner in Asia in terms of both exports and imports. So it happens without a free trade agreement. What a free trade agreement can do, if it succeeds, is to create a safer and more predictable framework for Norwegian business for the trade already taking place between Norway and China. So it's quite obvious that it has security implications, the growth China now has, and that's also what I explained in my post. Of course, we see this in a close context. That is a reason why we are discussing China in NATO as well. It's not for NATO to have a military answer to the question of China, but it's because it's part of our important analysis of the world around the world, including security policy, how it's handled. As I said, we have not received messages from the Americans, either the previous or the current administration, around the fact that we are engaged in these negotiations. It will of course be a sovereign, Norwegian decision with whom we want to conclude free trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e997	Yeah, you could say that, but it's clear it doesn't, because the Americans have a big influence on how we're going to deal with a free trade agreement even if we want to stand independent of it. There is no doubt that China is an authoritarian country without liberal freedoms that we want to practice. The agreement also provides for investment to be practised. Now the government may not have made the best figure during the hearing we had two days ago, about Bergen Engines, but at least it agreed that there would be a regulation to have an overview of foreign investment in Norwegian business, among other things. from China and Russia. I assume this is part of this agreement. How do the Chinese view being distrusted in this way? Is there something they accept, or is it not part of the agreement? And how will China react if we inform them that this control and overview will be presented to the outside world?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1002	Once again, of course, it is a sovereign, Norwegian decision which laws and regulations we have for example. investments in Norwegian companies or infrastructure. It has always been, and it is the framework conditions that apply to any actor who wants to invest in or cooperate with businesses and businesses in Norway. There is nothing different for either China, Russia or other countries, and that is part of the framework conditions in Norway. The fact that we have a safety law that provides both for subjecting certain companies and businesses directly to the law through individual decisions, and a safety valve in Sections 2 to 5, which enables us to stop or repress buy-in or investment, is precisely because we know that in today's complex reality, investments, value chains and all these questions that we have now been faced with, are a very significant part of the assessments both of Norwegian interests and of Norwegian security. That's why it's obvious that it's also going to follow here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1010	‘Norges Bondelag has informed of several cases where the State Manager requires a regulatory plan for the construction of operational buildings in LNFR areas.’;» In a specific case in the municipality of Grane, the municipality gave permission to build a new cattle poultry and manure foam after a thorough treatment. The neighbours complained, and the state administrator of the Inland converted the municipality’s decision, having regard to the fact that the measure triggered requirements for the preparation of the regulatory plan, as stated above. Section 12 of Plan and... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1017	The representative has to deal with the question she has sent in, so I ask her to go back to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1022	It is this question that has been sent.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1027	No — the representative argues in addition to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1032	I thought I was going to read the whole question, but then I just read the question and not the argument. ‘Has the Ministry sent a signal to the government administrators to change this practice, and in that case why’ — and what’s the point of having a zoning and a spatial plan in any case... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1039	Now the representative does the same thing. The rule in the ordinary questionnaire is that you read the question you sent in, and then you follow it up in the subsequent line changes. I give the floor to the Council of State Nikolai Astrup.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1046	The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation has not sent a signal to the state administrators to change the practice of the obligation to draw up a regulatory plan for the construction of agricultural buildings. Under the Planning and Building Act, there is no general obligation to draw up a regulatory plan when implementing measures. A number of building measures in agriculture and elsewhere can therefore be listed without a regulatory plan. This also applies to new agricultural operational buildings. However, for major or conflict-affected building measures, there may be a need for an assessment and coordination of different interests. It follows therefore from the Planning and Building Act that a regulatory plan is always to be drawn up in the implementation of major measures and measures that can have a significant impact on the environment and on society. And let me add: that provision has been like this since 1985. The assessment of the need to make a regulatory plan is known to the municipalities and state administrators. The inclusion of measures in non-regulated areas requires a concrete assessment of the requirements of the law. I am confident that municipalities and state administrators will make sound assessments in each case, including for measures in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1059	Now this is a completely new practice, and I perceive the Council's response so that there is no intention to do anything to prevent this from becoming an established practice across the country. Agriculture is an industry dependent on large initial investment, and the emerging unbundling requirement will depend on even more and more investment in new operating buildings. Low profitability and huge investments mean that many count on the buttons whether they are able to invest or whether they are going to shut down livestock farming. The imposition of a new large extra cost and a long-term procedure will be the drop that is requested to flow over, and that someone then might choose to surrender with livestock production. Does the Council not see that this is an obstacle to agricultural development and that it is an overrun of local government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1068	The intention to ask questions in the ordinary Question Time must also be to get an answer. In my first answer, I was very clear that we have not sent any signals to the state administrators to change practice. A new practice has not been established. The legislation and regulatory plan requirements for major conflict-affected measures have been so since 1985. Nevertheless, the representative says that there is a new practice. So that's not right. This has been the case for many years, and we have not relied on any new practices in this area by the Department. I understand that some in the agricultural industry feel that regulatory obligations have certain consequences. In some cases, both the scope and the impact of a construction action can have a significant impact on the environment and society, and in such cases, there will be a need for sound planning of all the interests associated with the development. Simplification of the further process for the implementation of such large-scale measures may also provide for predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1075	I understood the Council of State's response that there was no such requirement for a change in practice, but there has in fact been a change in practice – not a change in law, but a change in practice. The central party believes that the State should govern the details less and no more. I don't think the purpose of zoning the municipal spatial plan was to give priority to housing, where agriculture is going to be, and where other industries are going to be developed. Decisions in line with the confirmed spatial plan should not be subject to appeal by the manager of the State. What's happening now is that the practice has changed a lot. If the Council of State agrees with me that this change in practice leads to challenges for agriculture, is it not necessary to see whether we have to send some signals to the government administrators that the overrun of local democracy is not good?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1083	The assessment of the regulatory plan requirements of the law is subject to legal application and, as a review body, the state administrator shall ensure that the requirements of the law are complied with. The law imposes requirements on the regulatory plan for certain measures, and therefore the assessment is not subject to municipal discretion. The main criterion for whether regulation is required is whether the measure itself or its potential consequences will bring about significant changes in the existing environment. It is also necessary to assess whether it triggers the need for other measures, which together may produce such effects. In addition, attention shall be paid to the need to allow the public to make their views known. I trust that the state administrators make sound assessments on each case, because for all measures listed in non-regulated areas, a concrete assessment of the requirements of the law must be made. I do not know that there has been a change in practice in this area, but it may well be that some in agriculture have been faced with situations where they have been required to make a regulatory plan, in which they will then disagree. But there has been no change in practice in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1097	‘When can businesses, and in particular the hard-tested small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism, nightlife and catering industries, expect to be able to apply for grants in the March month of the compensation scheme, when will the lost stocks scheme be in place and will the government listen to the companies in these industries that are clear that the aid schemes are not helping them, and are concerned about this government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1102	Of course, it worries both me and the government. We are concerned about those parts of Norwegian business that, as a result of measures taken to manage the coronary apathy, have had to reduce or shut down their activities. Throughout the pandemic, the government has had close and close contact with employees’ and employers’ organisations about the situation and the arrangements for different packages. The recordings we have received — and still receive — from businesses and other actors are of great value in the work that we are still doing with both infectious diseases and compensatory measures. We're listening to the recordings we're getting. We have expanded and extended the compensation scheme several times, including: after feedback from the enterprises. A number of other schemes have also been put in place to assist enterprises through the pandemic. For me, it's important to clarify that it's the sum of the different schemes that can help us get these companies and these industries through the pandemic. The compensation scheme has been important for both travel and catering. 40 pst. the amount paid from September to February for overnight stays and serving. But, as I said, the total of this is important, and the money now being paid through the municipalities has been of great importance to many enterprises, not least small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, because the money can get out quickly, but also because the municipalities, who know their own business well, can target the allocations to the companies and the industries that have worn out the most. Then we have the conversion system, which is also very popular. We have had many good applications, and many companies have been helped to do a necessary job there. A mechanism for the compensation of lost stocks for the period November to April must be notified and approved by the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA, while maintaining a dialogue with ESA on the re-notification of the March to June compensation scheme. So the system can only be put in place after it has been notified and approved by ESA. We aim to have the scheme approved at the beginning of May. According to the plan, we had hoped that we would open up for applications on 18 May. I have also previously responded to the Storting on questions, but as things look now, there might be a few more days, and then we'll talk about May 20, before we can open up for applications from March onwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1115	I thank you for the answer, and I also think that this answer will be useful for the industries I mentioned. Many companies, especially in the nightlife business in Oslo, are calling for a better dialogue with the government and feel that it is difficult to get the government in dialogue about just the expected dates ahead. The situation for many of them is completely precarious. They have the knife on their throats, and they fear more bankruptcy. There could always be others who are ready to take over, but in that we lose much of the value and what makes Oslo Oslo, when the serious players who are in the outdoor business in Oslo now can go bankrupt. The question remains: is the government willing to listen to the industry, which is so clear that today's arrangements are not sufficient, and not monners, and perhaps just provide a coverage of fixed costs of 50-60 pst., and not up to 85 pst., which is what they are going to do, and thus contributes to the very competitive situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1122	After all, it is just listening to the industry we have done when we have supplemented the compensation scheme with other schemes. Because it was clear that the compensation scheme was not targeted at one industry. It's supposed to hit wide. As a result, the entire business community that has had a decrease in turnover of more than 30 p.p. could come under that scheme. It is also a scheme that covers some predetermined costs, and not all costs incurred or incurred by an enterprise. That is why it has been so important to have different arrangements also at the top of that compensation scheme. We have also strengthened and announced further strengthening of the scheme paid through the municipalities. Last round, it has also been targeted at those municipalities that have a high level of employment in the sectors that the representative is now talking about. I believe this is a result of, among other things. the good dialogue we have had with both the social partners and individual businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1129	I think, unfortunately, that dialogue is not wide enough and not good enough with any of those who are the hardest hit. What will be the consequence of the date plan presented here by the Council of State is that it is not until June that they hit the companies most hard, those who actually closed first and will open at the latest here in Oslo, start getting the next round of money, whether it's in the compensation scheme for all the months that have gone by, or there's too much lost stock, or there's the extra money in the municipal scheme. It's late, especially given the large debt burden to many of these companies now, also to the state, where interest rates are high. I'm worried about these messages. I think they're going to be received with concern in the outdoor industry. The government should consider exceptional measures, so that we now avoid significant bankruptcies just before society opens up again, after we have contributed money to keep companies alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1134	I disagree with the description that it is late to get money out, and that the money will not come until June. If we can open up for the application periods March and April on 20 May, the experience we have from the compensation scheme shows that the money is being paid very quickly. There are some companies that get the money paid the same day they have applied for. Most others get them one or two days later. Of course, there are some people who lack documentation, and it takes a little longer, but the experience from the compensation system is that once you have sent an application and everything is all right, a money gets into the account very quickly. And then there are already payments in progress. There was a news item just before Easter about the 750 million. kr via the municipalities. It is a little different how far the municipalities have come, but my experience is that the municipalities are also trying to get the money out as quickly as they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1144	«Many travel establishments and special services have lost up to 90 pst. of its revenue, while expenditure has not been possible to avoid to the same extent. The NHO Travel Life Member Survey, published on 14 April 2021, shows that 47 p.m. by the enterprises have been covered under 20 pst. of its unavoidable fixed costs from the compensation scheme. The SSB reports that 1 out of 3 jobs in the tourism industry is gone. Does the Council of State consider that the level of support provided by the compensation scheme is sufficient to bring travel life through this crisis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1151	I have a great deal of understanding that many companies and many employees are in a difficult situation, not least in travel. I can promise the representative that the government has worked and continues to work hard to help small, medium-sized and other companies through this pandemic. There are a number of schemes in place, but it is not that one scheme can help everyone. It's the sum of the different schemes that can help business through the pandemic. Since 12 March last year, the government has promoted extensive financial measures to limit the negative impacts of the pandemic and the measures to protect infection. Last year, temporary emergency measures totaling 131 billion were adopted. kr. The compensation scheme provides grants to enterprises when the pandemic and infection protection measures restrict business opportunities and there are fixed, unavoidable costs to assist enterprises to cover. It helps to get more businesses through the pandemic and helps secure jobs. In addition, we have a number of other support schemes. The size has, among other things, granted $1.75. kr to the municipalities, so that they can target support to the most severely affected establishments, either by national or by local measures for the protection of infection. They have a great deal of freedom in how they want to set up those payments, but in the last payment, it was the municipalities with a lot of employees in accommodation and serving that were prioritised. I would also like to bring forward the conversion mechanism, which is managed by Innovation Norway. So far we see that there is a great need for that system. Many good applications have been received, and we experience and get feedback that it has been targeted and good for travel. As things look brighter, the vaccination is in progress and the infection situation is stable, more businesses will also be able to return to the labour force. For this reason, it has been important for the government to implement the new wage support scheme, which entered into force on 15 March, and which is targeted at those who have been most hit over time. We have said that we will continue to work on different measures as long as the pandemic and the infectious diseases measures make it necessary. The last thing we've done now is that those restaurants and so far others with fresh goods that have been costing for the loss of stocks can cover their costs. There we work on both notification and getting it into the compensation system in the Brønnøsund registers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1164	One category of enterprises that are not assisted by any of the schemes currently mentioned by the Council of State is entrepreneurs. The working party proposes a valve arrangement, a safety valve, for entrepreneurs who are not taken by the compensation scheme, who are not ready to start to change because they have just started up, and some of them are in municipalities that get very little money from the state. In the municipality of Hadsel, you will find an excellent restaurant that also has a place to stay, the White House. One of Norway's best cooks has settled there and started just before we had to close the country last year, in 2020. He is in the municipality of Hadsel, which received 743 000 kroner in the first allocation from the state, and has now received notice that they will receive 343 000 kroner in the next. He has NOK 150 000 in fixed expenses every month and not entitled to compensation. Does the Minister agree that it would be unfair to refer the White House Farm to a municipal scheme and that a state scheme is necessary for entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1169	On a general basis, I would say that we also have schemes to help entrepreneurs. We have an instrument that has ordinary arrangements. Several of those arrangements were strengthened last year just to stimulate the activity that we want to keep up and that we know we need when we're going out of this crisis. So it's also initially an offer that is in Innovation Norway. So it's right, as the representative says, that it's the municipal scheme, the money that's being closed through the municipalities, which will be the most important measure of meeting such businesses, because the municipalities themselves see these companies in a different way than the general compensation system can do, but also because a valve system administered by the state would be very extensive, and it would take a very long time before you could possibly get paid money. The solution we have found with a valve arrangement through the municipalities, I think, is the most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1176	I would rather claim that the state has pushed a problem over to the municipalities, who are sitting with amputation and too little money to help their skilled travel businesses. The Workers' Party also considers that holdings that are shut down by measures to prevent infection must receive a special compensation of 20 pst. of the turnover they used to have before the corona, in addition to what they receive through the compensation scheme. The membership survey I referred to in the opening question shows that the compensation is not good enough. When nightlife and restaurants in Oslo were met by the ban early in November and later closed, the losses became very large, and there are many people in travel now who are afraid of their job, their work of life, and who should also be allowed to enjoy themselves a little more until the summer. Will the Minister of Industry say that it will be fairer that the catering companies do not lose more money now and can get 20 pst. of previous placing on the market before corona in addition to compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1183	Fortunately, many in the business, travel and serving industries are beginning to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Vaccination is on its way. We're starting to talk about opening up again, and that's ours, doing something about the mood on a general basis. I believe that the arrangements we have put on the table now, together, provide a very good coverage for the companies that are hard hit. The compensation scheme is general and broad and is intended to hit everyone. That is why we have our own schemes that can be more targeted, for example. the arrangement through the municipalities, but also the last arrangement that we now enter into the same portal as the compensation scheme, which concerns lost stocks. All of this is to target those that we know are the hardest hit. The same applies to the compensation scheme, which is also designed in such a way that those who have been most affected can benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1193	‘In the United Kingdom on 12 April, the Minister of Foreign Affairs indicated that the negotiations with the United Kingdom on a free trade agreement were now in a demanding phase and that it was important to see a greater whole than safeguarding the interests of Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs failed to answer concrete questions related to the negotiations and referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Can the Council of States state that it is not appropriate to increase duty-free quotas for imports of agricultural products into Norway beyond the EU, including the United Kingdom, before Brexit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1200	The negotiations with the United Kingdom on a broad and comprehensive free trade agreement have been ongoing since last year and, as is rightly said here from the representative, are in a final phase. That means we're not done with the negotiations yet. There have been demanding negotiations. That's still the case. It is an agreement that has been of great interest to the public in general, but particularly in relation to the negotiations on goods, i.e. agriculture and fisheries. I understand that this is an agreement that creates great commitment, because the United Kingdom is our main trading partner, if we look away from the EU. It is a country with which we have long, historical contacts, it is a country that is close to us, and it is a market that is not only important today, but, as we know, will also be important in the future. It's a country with a lot of people, with a big business life and like that with considerable payability. I obviously cannot comment on a possible result now, as we are still negotiating and are not finished yet. What I can say is that the interests and needs of agriculture are something we have been aware of throughout the debate, and we are still. We are concerned that the need for protection of agriculture is addressed in this agreement – as in all other free trade agreements that we negotiate. The agreement is important for agriculture, for the fishing industry, but it is important for industry as a whole. It's a deal that's going to stand for years to come. We are now in the final phase concerned with achieving the best overall result for Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1211	It is essential for Norway to ensure the basis for living agriculture throughout Norway. The food industry is the largest mainland industry in Norway and, with reduced customs protection, we can risk losing thousands of jobs both in agriculture and in the food industry. I have recorded that in the Granavolden platform, the government writes that it is concerned with ‘a well-functioning and predictable import protection for agricultural products’ and that it is ‘a prerequisite for maintaining an agricultural production throughout the country and increasing food production’. Can the Council confirm that these wordings of the Granavolden platform form the basis for negotiations with the United Kingdom on a trade agreement and will it be compatible with these wordings to weaken Norwegian customs protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1220	I can't go into what's on the table right now. It is not a negotiated agreement. It will come to Stortinget if and when it is negotiated. If it's going to Stortinget now in this session, we're running out of time. But it's not done. What I can say is that of course we have the wording that lies in the Granavolden platform. We have had several meetings with different actors in both agriculture, fish and other areas who have presented what they think is the most difficult for them in such negotiations. So I cannot go into what lies there, but the representative should know that we are well aware of the challenges and the importance of customs protection for agriculture when we sit in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1227	I now register that the Minister of Agriculture and Food is sitting in the Chamber here listening to what the Minister of Industry says, and the Minister of Agriculture and Food was challenged earlier today at just these negotiations. Then the Minister of Agriculture and Food said that she wanted to fight as well as she could for the interests of Norwegian agriculture. It was a little unclear whether that fight went up against the United Kingdom, or whether it was a fight that was now primarily internal to the government. At least what the Minister of Industry has to be able to clarify is what kind of position you have in those negotiations from the Norwegian side. Is it the wording of the Granavolden platform that requires us to maintain a ‘workable and predictable import protection’ based on the Norwegian side of the negotiations? Is it relevant to weaken Norwegian customs protection through the negotiations, or can the Council of State guarantee that it will not be done through the new free trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1232	The underlying elements of these negotiations – and in all other free trade agreements we have concluded or work with – are Norwegian interests. It's not an internal struggle in the government. We agree to fight for Norwegian interests when we negotiate with other countries. It was supposed to be missing, too. And the agricultural interests are one of the interests we're concerned with both protecting and fighting for. There are also other important parts of this agreement under negotiation – both on the goods side and on other parts of the agreement. There has been a demanding debate. There is still a demanding debate. And of course, some of the things that have been demanding are the things that go on the commodity. That's also what there's been most attention to, but I'm not going to say anything about what's on the table, or what Norway has presented as its offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1242	This is a responsibility that another state council really should have, but I get to leave it. ‘Shoot premiums on wild species believe that many biologists are a prehistoric system that is neither ecologically justified nor ethically sound. Since the county can now leave the decision to set up such premiums to the municipalities, this system is in the wind again. Among other things, Grane's municipality has shot premiums on ravens, crows, seams and gaupe. Does the State Council consider shot premiums to be compatible with modern, ecological thinking, and if no – what will she do with it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1251	The theme taken up by the representative is related to the first paragraph of Section 51 of the Civil Code, whether or not to enter into the issue of shot premiums. The provision provides, as the representative says, that a shot premium may be fixed for certain game species. The prerequisites for the approval of these shooting premium schemes are that the game species have hunting time and that they do damage. The establishment of a shot premium requires approval either by the county council or by the county council in consultation with the authorising directorate. I would also like to point out that in March 2020, the government launched a legislative work aimed at reviewing and modernising the wildlife law. The law is almost 40 years old, and I agree with the representative that it is mature for an audit. It's mostly 40 years old, I'd think. It is followed by both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Climate and Environment. The new law builds on what works well in existing law and takes into account new technological developments that exist, new challenges and better coordination with other legislation. The Viltslaw provision for a shot premium has been debated over time. I even remember that when I was young and young, that debate was there. In connection with the Ministry's recording meeting that we had in June 2020, we also saw that there were questions from different organisations about it with a shot premium. I now point out that the Directorate for the Environment is our directorate in the field of wildlife, and they are key contributors to this ongoing legislative work. Joint supplementation letters have also been received from both the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the Directorate-General for the Environment, and they have given a number of investigative missions at the time they are available. More detailed studies on the premium for shots are one of the new tasks that the Directorate for the Environment has been given. That's why I don't want to shoot that work. They have a deadline until December 2021 to make this happen, and I will not prejudge any of that assignment until those results are on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1266	I thank you for a positive answer in many ways. There's a process going on. To Today's Business, which has raised this whole debate in recent times, in a twelve-page D2 attachment last weekend, says one of our negroes who was also central to the assessment of the last revision of the wild law, formerly employed in the directorate, game manager in the county and marine hunter, namely Vidar Holthe, the following: ‘But I need a motive to trap an animal. It has to be a resource. Shooting wild just to get more of another, is hard to defend, you ask me." But this ancient system still has, from the revision of the Game Act in 1981, as the Council of State said, until today. Does the Council of State, in principle, believe that it is fertile to continue a system that builds up under such old-fashioned and low-organic terms as ‘injurious’ and ‘profit animals’?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1276	I want to say it that way that I understand the discussion that is going on, but I also understand the challenges that go on that once you have had these shot premiums, it has been within the species's hunting quota. There have been demands for it, and there have been demands that, as they say where I come from, when they've done Ugandan, when they destroy, it has been a prerequisite for doing so. I don't think it should be an incentive to increase the hunt. One shall fill the allowances that are there, but there has been a way of obtaining pests, which have been a challenge, and there have been different types of animals that have been covered by the scheme. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1281	The President will recommend that both the Council of State and the representative address the President when they are given the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1286	I thank you again for the answer. I just want to inform the Council that there are no hunting quotas for many of these species. This is a standing hunt that has hunting times. Another person, Knut Morten Vangen, head of the game department in the Environment Directorate, says to Today's Business: ‘However, we assume that most such schemes contribute to a limited reduction in the population of the species concerned and that the achievement of the scheme may therefore be limited’.» The same thing says a pretty unisoned corps of biologists. «We are basically negative to such arrangements, as we mainly want withdrawals to be made by ordinary hunting». It says game manager in the Inland, Mari Jacobsen Garmo, and adds that ‘there are unclear facts about the practice of shooting premiums’. They have requested guidance on this. When there is then no significant effect of these shot premiums, I expect the Council of State to take this seriously when she now revises the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1305	That's one of the reasons. It's all of these recordings that we've met in June 2020, which is the basis for us asking you to take a look at it with a shot premium. So I'm not saying that it's going to wind up, but I say we have to look at all the sides, and I think it's great with the recordings that are coming, because it's important to have the hunting times that we have, that the representative himself says, but it's also about being able to manage if it's a challenge. But I don't want to conclude, as I've said, until I've got all the recordings from the directorate, who's got all the recordings from organizations, individuals, hunters that send recordings. Then we're going to make a good decision on the basis of that and professional input.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1314	‘The study barometer shows that the most satisfied teacher students, nursing students and engineering students are those who study in small student groups in smaller study places. Although the government promised that the structural reform in higher education would not lead to fewer places of study, there has been a centralisation of study provision. The Nesna and the Sandness Lake are two examples. Is there a limit to what the government will accept from the closure of study places and facilities, or can we risk further centralisation and degradation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1321	Let me start by thanking the representative for the question. I want to start by stressing that I believe that everyone should have the opportunity to take education regardless of where they live in the country and what their situation is, even where there is no physical building. That is why we have strengthened the arrangements in the Loan Fund, and we have spent a lot of money on flexible and decentralised study services. Before the summer, we will also present our own strategy for this. Norway has a very decentralised structure for higher education. There are 21 state universities and colleges and a number of private educational institutions. Many of the institutions have not only one campus, but several places of study and offerings that are geographically dispersed. In total, there are almost 60 physical campers. There is also a good geographical spread of the vocational school offer. The University and Higher Education Act states that the Board of Directors of an institution is responsible for setting up the strategy, establishing appropriate organisation and allocating resources. At the same time, I expect institutions to be aware of their regional role and to assess regional needs and opportunities before taking their decisions. It is the sum of many individual choices that affect the overall demand for higher education in Norway. The Demographics Committee points out that many do not necessarily move to the nearest institution but to larger cities. It is linked to the labour market. Many people who have studied elsewhere also move to larger cities to work. This means that decentralised study sites alone are not the answer to everything. Infrastructure and more jobs are also important as part of the solution to make it more attractive to live outside cities. For me, education is more than a physical building. Here we have to think again, something we've also had to do under the pandemic. We need to increase the scope of decentralised and flexible services across the country, become good at connecting supply and demand, working for high quality and relevance, but also ensuring flexible framework conditions for students, for working life and for institutions. The strategy for digitisation presented before the summer will also be an important tool to ensure that education reaches even more in the future. Finally, I would like to make it clear that it is not reserved for smaller places of study to organise the teaching of small student groups. The study barometer also shows that there are satisfied students in both larger and smaller places of study. And the new report on the relevance of working life in higher education, which is currently being treated in the United Kingdom, underlines the importance of the diversity and organisation of education in a way that is similar to that of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1336	Thanks for the answer. Physical presence means a lot, and the Center Party has clearly expressed what we want to do for Nesna and North Norway, including funds for decentralised campus and educational services. The centre party believes we need to reverse centralization, and we fear for more places of study. Recently we saw the Mars rover Perseverance with the Norwegian-produced georader Rimfax lands printed on planet Mars. A happy Rimfax team sat in the control room at Kjeller, attached to the UiO. Kjeller is part of the country’s territory with the largest growth in housing and business. Several students are associated with Kjeller today, and 3,000 are ordinary students at the Oslo Kjeller Campus. The center part fears the downbuilding of the activity there. Does the government consider it important to maintain and increase the number of places of study on Kjeller Campus?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1343	That's how I said in my first answer, it's the institutions themselves that decide the structures of their places of study. After all, Oslo's government has decided to keep their study place in Rome. If it's exactly Kjeller, it's a discussion they have now, but they're going to have to keep a decentralised classroom in Rome. I know that they are now in a process with several municipalities that have offered more premises, to find out exactly where it should be. So whether it's Kjeller, or whether it's going to be somewhere else in Rome, it hasn't ruled to Oslo finally settled, but they've decided that they'll continue to be there, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1348	The way forward for Kjeller is probably decided at the board meeting in May, and the centre party is concerned that we get a further development of higher education in Rome. If Kjeller is lost to bet in Oslo, there will be a centralisation away from an area of expected growth and skills needs. The Government has repeatedly stated that state universities and colleges should have campus development plans that facilitate the rational use of land and that support it under the professional and strategic priorities of the institutions. Is the Council of State satisfied with the investigations into the further activity of Oslomet at Kjeller? Can the government accept a development where in Rome a branch of online education ends up under Oslomet? Or do Right want to take responsibility and take back the management of study places to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1353	On the question of whether the Right believes that we should take back the management of Stortinget – I am critical of that. It's simply because I believe in decentralizing these decisions from the metropolitan hall in Oslo and out to the individual institution and the needs they see. I'm going to come back to the discussion about Kjeller concretely, but different parts of the country have different needs and see where they can strengthen the professional environments, and how they can make this the best possible. I think they take that responsibility very well, because we have e.g. Nearly 60 different colleges only within our universities and colleges. To the discussion Oslomet has: the board has made a decision, and it is that they are going to be in Rome, and they are now discussing how to carry it out further. I'm going to follow the board meeting carefully. But if I am to stand by my principle, namely that these are decisions that should be decentralised out of the Oslo Storting and out to the institutions throughout the country, then I also believe that I must respect those decisions. As far as I am aware, the representative's party is also very concerned about moving decisions out of Oslo and out into the country, so I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1369	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1377	‘The grazing industry in Westland, Rogaland and Agder have sent letters to the Environment Directorate demanding a power cut to bring the herds down to the goal of the Stortinget. They have not received an answer, so I take up this important matter in Stortinget. Will the Minister for Climate and Environment entrust the Environment Directorate with the task of carrying out extraordinary withdrawals of yours in ours to bring down on the stock target that the Storting has seen for you?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1384	The stock target for you is 39-year-old young coal, and the stock of yours has been above the stock target for many years. By 2020, the population status was 63 young coal. The aim is for predator populations to be as close to the target species as possible. The main instrument for regulating the stock of yorks in Norway is licensing agreement. Allowances for the last licence period were seen as 143 yerv, including a total of 84 yervetisper. This is about half of all known grown-ups in Norway. At the end of February 15th this year, 74 yevs were burdened with this quota. Licensing of yours works better in some areas than in others. Last autumn the legislation on licensing of yours was amended. The change opened for the use of two new instruments in the cutting process: the use of artificial light on the ate and electronic monitoring of fishing booths throughout the country. This can help to make licensing of you even more effective. In addition to a licence case, damage cases are considered when there are grounds for doing so. Extraordinary withdrawals are damage traps determined by the Directorate for the Environment, which is carried out by the State's Natural Supervision. In line with the 2011 Robbery Agreement, the authority is to trap you through so-called extraordinary withdrawals given to the Environment Directorate. Each year, the Directorate assesses the situation in the different parts of the country. The Directorate shall, inter alia: consideration of the history of damage and the potential for damage in those assessments. To now this year, the directorate has taken 14 decisions on extraordinary withdrawals of yours, including 7 hi-takes. The Directorate for the Environment reports that they have received the relevant request to which the representative Navarsete referred and that they now have an assessment, because they need more information from the monitoring of you. During the time we are now in, the directorate receives continuous information from its field personnel in the State's natural care department that is out tracking and collecting information about the nitrogen stock. Based on this information, the Directorate can then decide what can be done, including in the counties of Westland, Rogaland and Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1397	There were more than 2 million sheep on the outback at the same time as the population of yerv is on a historically high level, actually 50 pst. above what is Stortinget's goal. It is true that Yewahakta resulted in withdrawal of 74 yews, but the quota was thus 140 animals. For this reason, aid from the State's natural resources, which, on the other hand, is due to low capacity in hi-takes and stripping of animals due to coronary restraints, is entirely dependent on assistance from the State. It's good that you've got new methods to take out yours, but the truth is, it doesn't work when your stock just increases. Then one must be willing to take extraordinary action. Or perhaps the Council of State insists on treading its good friends who don't want it to be taken from predators, on the toes of a whale year? What is the Council of State's plan to ensure that one comes down to its goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1402	I will acknowledge that at present there may be disagreements between my party and the party of the representative Navarsete on important issues such as stockpiles – what the target is to be on, law houses and also the view on different quotas. But it's not the kind of inconsistency that leads here. I have not realized that there has been any disagreement about the cutting quotas that have been given this year, I perceive that the Storting is also gathering about the stock target for you. And we have the necessary decisions to make. But it has been a lot of things that this year has made it difficult, as far as I have been informed, to carry out all the outcomes that are planned. It's about weather conditions when it's about flight and tracking, it's demanding for me to do something about it. The second is some of the coronary restraints that also activate when it comes to the ability to cross borders, carry staff, proximity, etc. Otherwise, it is not true that the herds population is on a historically high level – on the contrary, the herds population has been quite even at the level at which he is now, in the last 15 years. It shows that this is a demanding job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1409	If we look at the average from predatory data's breeding records for 2014, 2018 and 2020, they show that the young have moved much closer to Sogn and Nordfjord from the east, to talk about an area that lies close to both the Council of State and me. One is very turbulent for the grazing season in 2021, for example. in Luster, where they have suffered great losses in the last few years. Last year there were two observations in the predatory base in January, this year there is already a two-digit number of observations. Then one expects the government to have a plan for extraordinary withdrawals of yerv, both in regions 1 and 3, since it is borderline with Sogn and Nordfjord. To secure the grazing priority areas, something has to be done, because now the juveniles have moved closer and closer, and that means a much greater pressure. So will the Council of State be looking for extraordinary withdrawals of yerv in the border areas towards Sogn and Nordfjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1416	As the representative of course knows very well, neither in Sogn nor in Nordfjord nor any other part of Westland, Rogaland and Agder should be young coal of yours. A driving management in these areas, and where young coal is detected, they are removed. Then, as it's also said, one gets an insight of you from surrounding regions, among other things. region 3 Uppland. The situation at present is that one is exactly on the regional stock target. But you're now working on registering juveniles beyond spring, so we don't have all the information yet. When it comes to implementing exceptional withdrawals, as I said in my first answer, it has been done over the winter, and the Environment Directorate has now received requests and will of course assess them, when one receives information, among other things. on traceability. I really don't think there's any disagreement that such withdrawals should be carried out, but it's not all of the weather and wind a council can control – or global pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1421	Then the ordinary question mark is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-21.ana.ud153e1435	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? No one does, and the meeting is cancelled.
