ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e68	For the sake of infection, the President would like the public gallery to be held closed even during the meeting today. - It's a note. The representative Camilla Strandskog has requested that the approved parental leave be extended until 26 February. On a proposal from the President, the following agreement was reached: The application will be processed immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Mats A. Kirkebirkeland, continues to meet in Stortinget until 25 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e90	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e95	I'm glad to be able to make suggestions from the major representatives of Marit Arnstad, Aud Hove, Willfred Nordlund and myself on the re-establishment of higher education at Nesna.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e100	The representative, Mr Kaski, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e105	On behalf of the representative Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I will make proposals on the state protection of Ekebergsletta.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e110	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e115	I would like to have a representative proposal from the local representatives Sandra Borch, Emilie Enger Mehl and myself for compensation because of the law ban with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e120	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. Before the items in the meeting card are taken up for processing, the President will inform you that the meeting is continuing beyond noon today. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e140	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to three rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e147	The case concerns temporary changes to the infectious disease law in order to provide regulatory assistance on where and how persons travelling to Norway are to carry out the quarantine in order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. As of today, the regulation on quarantine hotels is laid down by law, Section 7-2. The fact that a legislative proposal is now being promoted is that it follows from the infectious disease law and the Civil Protection Act that, if a regulation is to apply beyond 30 days, the matter is to be referred to the Stortinget, which is also to be subject to an ordinary legislative procedure, as we are now doing. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the government has been concerned about taking serious imports. We have had some of the most stringent entry rules in Europe for a long time, and the measures against the spread of import infection have also been reinforced recently, particularly in view of the increased risk of the spread of mutated viruses. Quarantine hotels have been necessary, but we have also seen the need to make rapid changes in who needs to be in the quarantine hotel and how quarantine is to be carried out. For this reason, it is positive that the government is promoting a proposal for regulatory assistance to make rapid changes as necessary. In conclusion, I would just like to comment on the Senterpartiet and SV's claims in the position that the government should have submitted the entire regulation on quarantine hotels as a bill rather than a prescription home. It is also claimed that through this bill, we are changing the rules between government and magnification. We do not agree with that. The requirement for landfill treatment must be seen in the context of the Code of Disease Protection and the system of the Code of Disease Protection. In order to ensure that the size is involved when the authorisation is to be used, when reference is made to the Civil Protection Act. This is initially done when the regulation is notified to the Stortinget. If it lasts beyond 30 days, you have to go through a general legislative process, which is what we're doing right now. I would also mention that this is entirely in line with how Stortinget has previously practiced this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e158	On behalf of the SV and the Central Party, I would like to present the proposal contained in the vote: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the covid-19 regulation on quarantine hotels as a legislative proposal, in order to enable the Stortinge to take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ The size has given the government wide powers to introduce national measures to protect infection by means of these laws, and this is necessary to be able to act quickly. Paragraphs 7 to 12 of the Code allow a government to derogate from existing laws and introduce new rules of a legal nature in order to implement emergency and intervention measures necessary to protect the population against infectious disease, but such measures must subsequently be sent to the Parliament for normal treatment under the Constitution if they are to be carried on for more than 30 days. This option does not change whether you are in favour of or against a quarantine hotel or are regulating around it. It is about how to interpret the legislation on infectious diseases and the way in which the government is obliged to submit cases to the Storting if the measure is not to be lifted within 30 days. The center party thinks that it's unwise to change the IPD in the middle of a pandemic. The government itself argued that it should do so during the examination of the SV’s proposal for a representative last fall. Now the government is proposing exactly what they're warning against before Christmas, and they're doing it to avoid following up today's demands in the law to send a case to Stortinget. It doesn't just mean the Central Party and SV, it also means Professor Graver, who in his answer to the matter says: ‘In my view, it is problematic in principle that the government proposes to change the basic rules in the middle of an ongoing critical situation.’ And on the other hand, ‘If the Storting were to continue to base such an understanding, the whole scheme adopted after careful consideration by the Emergency Act is eroded. There is hardly any need to act quickly in such crises as are covered by the Civil Protection Act than in infectious diseases situations. If the Storting does not intervene now, the relationship between the Storing and the Government in crisis situations that have been going on for seventy years will have changed without it having been subject to a broad principle of treatment. The size should therefore request that the rules on infectious hotels adopted in accordance with Sections 7 to 12 of the infectious protection Act be submitted to the Stortinget as a proposal for a law as soon as possible.» This is the starting point for the Centre's position in the case. That is why we do not want to vote in favour of this proposal, and so we have our own proposals in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e182	The representative Kjersti Toppe then looked forward to the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e187	These are serious times. We have radical measures in our private lives. The measures have been necessary. They saved lives. The people have set up. We have been loyal to the measures that were put in place. But trust goes both ways. Openness and democratic debate are important for confidence, and this is put to the test in this case. Let's be honest: medical agencies have come up with advice, but it's the government that has made the decisions. It was the government that shut the schools down for a long time last spring, which not all professional bodies were in favour. It was also the government who hastened Hurtigruten's wish for cruise transport last summer. Would we have done better in the opposition? In some areas, we might have listened more to people and less to NHO. But the brutal answer is, we don't know that. Despite the fact that these are political decisions, the government has consistently avoided anchoring measures in the United Kingdom. That's too bad. Discussion would strengthen legitimacy and with that confidence. SV suggested that all intervention should go to Stortinget, but the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the right parties voted against. Now the government is proposing to downgrade trust, along with the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, not to treat a law on quarantine hotels. We believe, along with leading lawyers like Hans Petter Graver, that this will change the relationship and the rules of the game between the Storting and the government. This is serious and therefore SV will vote against the government's proposal. We would strongly urge the Labour Party and the Advance Party to vote in favour of our proposal to get quarantine hotels as a bill, so that the Stortinget can take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirement of the infectious disease law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e198	I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the government's proposal to allow the King to give instructions on where and how those who enter Norway will conduct the quarantine in order to prevent the transfer of covid-19. We who live in Norway have sacrificed a lot to get control of the pandemic. This control is essential if we are to maintain. Therefore, it is important that we limit the further spread of the virus in case of import infection. The recent developments in the spread of more infectious viral mutations and the reinforced entry measures launched on 29 January show this with all clarity. The requirement to stay at quarantine hotels for those entering Norway who do not have another suitable place of residence is an important measure against imports. At the same time, a requirement to stay at quarantine hotels is intrusive for those concerned. The Government therefore assesses, in line with the requirements of the IPD, the ongoing need for the scheme and possible changes in the situation of infection. This is the background to the adjustments made by the government before Christmas. It was then decided that those who could document another suitable place of residence should not stay at the quarantine hotel. However, the general rule remains that residents should spend their quarantine at quarantine hotels. I am pleased that the majority of the committee agrees with the government in this proposal and that it is in line with the infectious diseases Act § 7-12 and the Emergency Act § 3. On the other hand, the minority of the Committee considers that this proposal will alter the relationship between magnification and government. So I and the majority of the committee disagree. I'm referring first and foremost to the review of this in the proposition. The proposal for a regulatory seat is in line with previous practice. As stated in the proposal, twice before, the government has submitted a bill to Stortinget after using the authority of the IPD section 7-12. Both times the bill contained a regulatory home, and both times the Stortinget has adopted rules according to the government's proposal. The legislative proposal now being promoted is based on the same approach. It also proposed changes to the temporary law on restrictions on the entry of non-residents for reasons of public health, which was dealt with in the Stortinget on 18 January of this year. That bill also contained a regulatory home, and it was adopted by Stortinget. I therefore do not agree with the Committee's minority that this proposal alters the relationship between magnificence and government. The Storting proposal is due to take a decision today and will help to ensure control of the pandemic. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e207	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e212	The council did good for the quarantine hotel owners, but I would like to make it clear that there is no central party taking a stand today, because it is about powers that the government receives. The Council of State refers to the objections raised by, for example: Professor Graver and that one is disunity in the dei. I thought it was quite eye-catching. I would like to hear from the Council of State what is wrong in Professor Gravers's statement that it is problematic ‘to change the basic rules in the middle of an ongoing critical situation’ – that is, to make proposals to change the infectious diseases law, something the government before Christmas itself said was unwise, and that one would rather have to look at it when the pandemic is over. My question is, how can the Council of State defend a change in the law on infectious diseases in the middle of an ongoing pandemic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e221	I understand that this is not about the political content of the matter, i.e. the quarantine hotel, but about the legal. I have great respect for Professor Graver, but especially attentive to the fact that you disagree legally, I don't think it is. I am leaning on the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice, which I believe has a solid reason, which I have argued. This has been done by Stortinget before. There's nothing new in this. It is an opportunity to stay at a quarantine hotel in a special situation. What we're discussing is actually the level of detail that the Storting should decide on, and how quickly the government should be able to change the content of these details. The government made changes to the requirement in mid-December, when we introduced an appropriate place of residence. Now we are considering continuously tightening up the claim. We believe that we can do that without a debate in Stortinget, because it is in line with the flexibility you should have in an infectious disease protection situation. This is a legal debate, but I lean on the way we've done it, and on the legal advice I've received in my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e230	SV is for quarantine. It's important. But there is no bill in this case to get it. I'll quote Professor Graver: ‘If the Storting would continue to base such an understanding, the whole scheme adopted after careful consideration in the Emergency Act will be eroded.’ And on the other hand, ‘If the Storting does not intervene now, the relationship between the Storing and the Government in crisis situations that have existed for seventy years will have changed without having been the subject of a broad principle of treatment. The size should therefore request that the rules on infectious hotels adopted in accordance with Sections 7 to 12 of the infectious protection Act be submitted to the Stortinget as a proposal for a law as soon as possible.» What does the Minister think about what Graver has said?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e245	You can choose to agree legally with Graves, but to present Graves as a fait accompaniment to all legal answers I totally disagree with. We don't think this changes the relationship between magnification and government. On the contrary, we believe that this has been done earlier in this pandemic. It's nothing new that the Storting adopts legal documents and sets regulations, it does the Storting almost every week, I would say. But what we're talking about is the level of detail in the law school. The intrusive thing about this is that you require someone to be at a quarantine hotel. It's the Stortinget who's taking a stand on it. But the details of it are for the government to assess continuously according to the infectious diseases situation. It's always a matter of professional assessments that underlie whether we change the rules for this, or whether we tighten the rules for this. That's what it's done before, and that's what it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e250	Now the minister's just talking about this person, but it's also the Law Association, so there's more experts working on these laws, who say, "That's not okay." What does the Minister answer to what the Association of Lawyers thinks about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e255	I chose to deal with the representative's question and quote from Graver. I have also recorded the input of the Association of Lawyers, where they think we could be clearer and more detailed. We disagree. Here's a legal assessment that we're doing that's different from what the Graver and the Law Association are doing. We think we're acting in the way we've done, and then it's up to Stortingen to decide if you think the government could be more detailed. The Stortinget – a majority on the Stortinget – agrees with the government's interpretation. I'm very happy about that, because it gives us the opportunity to both tighten up and solve if we think that's the basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e260	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e283	The Progress Party has a clear expectation that the government will follow the decisions taken by the Stortinget. I have encouraged this interpellation to give the Minister of Health an opportunity to explain the progress of egg donation, early ultrasound, NIPT and PGD that remains. I would like to start by saying that I was aware that this would require some work in the department after the decision was taken in Stortinget, but the Progress Party is impatient on behalf of Norwegian women who have been waiting for years for these changes to come to Norway. Early ultrasound must be an offer to all pregnant women in public maternity care. There has never been a point for the Progress Party to publicise all investigations, but the public should have financial responsibility and ensure that all women are offered early ultrasound. I have registered that the Minister of Health did not include the capacity of the private gynecologists when the investigation work on how this can be carried out was ordered. The Health Directorate’s investigation has therefore not assessed the capacity available in the private sector, and I hope the Council of State in the further work will ensure that private operators also have the opportunity to participate in the certification course that is needed to become an authorised early ultrasound provider, and that regional health companies can purchase this capacity to ensure that the offer is put in place more quickly. With regard to NIPT, we in the Progress Party had initially seen that this was something private operators should be offered already this summer, shortly after the decision was taken in Stortinget. In dialogue with the Minister of Health, we have accepted that more assessments should be made of the criteria and the requirements to be set for this to be legal. Those assessments were submitted in November 2020, but I still have not understood why it was so difficult to get it in place during the last year. However, I am pleased that the Budgetary Union with the Advance Party and the Government decided that this should be in place by 1 April. I hope the Health Minister can confirm that he gets it done. NIPT will then gradually be built up in the public sector and become part of public maternity care for pregnant women who have defined risk pregnancy or early ultrasound findings. For us in the Progress Party, it is also not an independent goal that public hospitals should build up analytical capacity on this even if it is cheaper to buy it from the private sector. I hope the Council of State can assess whether public hospitals should buy this capacity rather than build it up themselves. Egg donation would be permitted in Norway from 1 January 2021. I know it was an ambitious deadline, but we in the Progress Party are impatient on behalf of Norwegian women and couples, and I am glad that we can finally give these families help to fulfill their greatest dream of establishing a family. We are now in February, and the offer has not yet come into place in Norway. I hope the Council of State can give us a thorough briefing on progress in the matter and give answers to all the impatient women out there who are wondering when they can get the process of trying to get the child they want started. In recent times, I have also received some questions about this that I need to clarify. When we in the Progress Party supported the amendment to allow partner donation, it was in no way a requirement from us that it should only apply to medical matters. Our main principle relating to assisted fertilisation was to establish that the donation of semen and eggs must be equated, that this should be done under ethical and sound frameworks, and that women and couples who want assisted fertilization by means of a donor must remain at 50 pst. of the genetic material itself. When an identical couple can stand with eggs, and satisfy all the other requirements we make for couples to be approved for assisted fertilization, it's okay. Which of the women who put eggs, and which of those who are pregnant, I really don't feel that we politicians have any right to invest in. Partner donation is something quite different than egg donation, because the ethical assessments are completely different. There will be no need for any compensation scheme, limitations in the number of donors’ procurements, or for psychological guidance in advance, to mention anything. I hope the Council of State will take that signal and make sure that someone does not now spend a lot of time and resources making rigid rules for this. Similar couples must be allowed to have a donation of eggs within the couple, even where there is no medical justification. Another question has arisen from families who have already had children using sperm donors in other countries, who have embryos on the freezer there, and who want to have the health of their children. Some of these families know the donor code and have therefore been informed that Norwegian health professionals cannot help them import their own embryos or get more semen from their donor. There has also been a slightly different practice here in Norway regarding how this law is handled. I hope the Council of State can answer if it's the correct interpretation of this, and if he can see more consent to such requests. At least it was not the intention of the Progress Party to prevent these families from getting more whole-siblings to their children or being refused imports of their own embryos. So the requirement for an anonymous donor is fixed, but in these cases it's a donor code, which for these families is nothing more than a combination of numbers and numbers, and it's an anonymous donor for all practical purposes. My last question to the Minister of Health relates to PGD – whether the Minister of Health is willing to have a temporary solution to this until PGD offers become a permanent scheme here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e302	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising this debate, which also gives me a golden opportunity to brief the Storting on the status of this important work. As I said, last year the Stortinget adopted several amendments to the Biotechnology Act, and most of the amendments came into force on 1 July 2020. The majority also decided that pregnant women should be offered ultrasonic testing during the first trimester, which could reveal serious disease or harm to the foetus. In addition, all pregnant women should be able to have the NIPT blood sample. These decisions were not part of the legal basis dealt with by the Storting. They involve substantial changes in maternity care and were not sufficiently well-established in advance. Increased use of NIPT and early ultrasound are new and major tasks for midwives and doctors, and it will require significant re-priorities in healthcare. The change must be capable of being implemented in a sound manner, within a sound professional framework and within the economic and resource frameworks in place. Therefore, on 16 June last year, Health Directorate was commissioned to investigate the prerequisites that must be in place to implement the early ultrasound, NIPT and to reduce the age limit for foetal diagnostics to 35 years. The Directorate was asked to assess the relationship between these pregnancy care and foetal diagnostic studies and the time at which they should be carried out during pregnancy. The Directorate was also asked to describe the need for health professionals, premises and equipment in addition to the economic consequences of an extended offer. The Executive Board has examined these issues in cooperation with the scientific community in the field of genetics and foetal medicine. The report was submitted on 2 November last year. The investigation shows that there is a need for a substantial increase in capacity and competence in order to introduce NIPT and early ultrasound. The Directorate therefore recommends that the amendments be introduced gradually. In line with this, and in line with the majority’s decisions and observations in the Committee’s budget position for 2021, the government has commissioned health regions to offer foetal medical services, including early ultrasound and NIPT, to pregnant women over 35 years of age and other pregnant women entitled to foetal diagnostics during the autumn of 2021. The decision to lower the age limit from 38 to 35 more than double the number of pregnant women required to have an offer of foetal medical examination and diagnostics. In line with the directorate’s recommendation, the government will provide the necessary preparation so that hospitals can offer early ultrasound to all pregnant women next year. This requires comprehensive measures of competence, assessment of personnel needs and investment. These decisions involve changes in the priority of midwifery resources and other health professionals and have significant budgetary implications. In the mission paper for 2021, I have asked the health regions to launch the competence-enhancing measures for midwives, doctors and other personnel. They shall also ensure that hospitals have the capacity to provide early ultrasound for all pregnant women in 2022. Health regions shall also consider how contract specialists can acquire the necessary additional competence in early ultrasound. I am also aware that the Norwegian gynecological association is working on a proposal for the training of doctors, so that they acquire competence in early ultrasound foetal diagnostics. The Government will return to the necessary appropriations in the revised national budget for 2021. In the case of private operators wishing to offer NIPT, the Directorate of Health has been entrusted with the task of establishing the authorisation system for these by 1 April of this year. Egg donation is now permitted in Norway following the entry into force on 1 January of the legislative changes that opened the egg donation. On 2 September last year, the Health Directorate was commissioned to prepare for the introduction of egg donation. by examining and drawing up proposals for guidelines for compensation for egg donors. The directorate was also asked to update the current supervisor for assisted fertilisation, so that this could also include egg donation. They were also to assess other necessary guidelines and guides to services and donors in connection with the establishment of the egg donation offer. The Health Directorate delivered its report on 2 December together with a draft revised circular on assisted fertilisation. In the circular it was among other things. proposals for guidelines on financial compensation for egg donors. Representatives of professional environments and the user organisation The wish children have participated in the work of the directorate. The proposal for a revised circular has been consulted and the directorate is now reviewing the answers to the consultation and incorporating relevant input. The final version of the circular shall be published in a short time. The Health Directorate will also publish egg donation information on the healthnorge.no website and update the information on the Health Directorate’s own website. Establishments for the recruitment of egg donors and the provision of assisted egg donation fertilisation must be authorised under the Biotechnology Act. The Health Directorate has received applications from three private establishments that wish to recruit donors and offer treatment with egg donation. The Executive Board has begun the examination of these applications. I am aware that public hospitals also plan to offer assisted fertilisation with egg donation when the guidelines are clear. The Health Directorate has been asked how to interpret the law on egg donation, including: the provision opening for the donation of eggs internally in like-minded couples. According to the directorate’s assessment, the law on partner donation opens up in exceptional cases, but not in general for all like-minded couples, among others. because this treatment can only be given by the method of fertilisation outside the body. Fertility outside the body may only be offered if the woman is infertility, in inexplicable infertility, or if the woman has or bears a serious hereditary disease. This is a legal interpretation supported by the Ministry, which is based on, among other things, The leadership of the Storting for these paragraphs. The PGD-named scheme was repealed from 1 July last year following the Storting decision, and the PGD-name is closed. The evaluation of the pairs or women to be offered pre-implantation diagnostics is now carried out by the specialist healthcare service. The assessment shall be based on the PGD denominator’s practice. Establishments to offer PGD must be authorised under the Biotechnology Act. The Ministry has received an application from and authorised two health establishments for PGD. It's Oslo University Hospital and St. Olav's hospital. The offer is initially made through the continued purchase of services abroad. After their investigation in Norway, couples are referred to PGD treatment abroad, mainly in Sweden and Belgium. However, the Covid-19 pandemic has limited the possibility for Norwegian couples to travel abroad for PGD treatment. Therefore, alternative solutions are now being considered. The size was also decided to review the conditions under which PGD was granted. The Ministry has asked the Health Directorate to review the conditions and guidelines for PGD and foetal diagnostics in line with this Decision. The Executive Board shall also examine and propose any legislative changes resulting from this review. This is an extensive work, and the deadline for the assignment was therefore set at 1 October this year. In my opinion, the decision to make major changes in maternity care was premature. The Health Directorate's investigation also supports that view. Because there was a need to investigate how the government could properly follow up the decision of the Grand Duchy, it was not set out in the government's budget proposal for 2021 to be able to follow up the recommendations and phase-in following advice from the Health Directorate, but in the light of the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, it was possible for the Government to follow up the Health Directorate's recommendation to gradually introduce this offer. The introduction of the early ultrasound and NIPT offer could present challenges related to capacity, personnel and competence. The government will try to facilitate that the change does not go too far on other parts of maternity, maternity and maternity care, but it can be challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e338	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good and thorough answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is following Storting's decision in the Biotechnology Act and is making progress on this. I note that the Council of State maintains that the establishment of the authorisation system for private operators wishing to offer the NIPT is set to April 1st, but I would like to have some further answers as to when it can be expected that the applications from the private operators will be accepted. I really hope that the Health Directorate has been in dialogue with the private actors in advance, to make sure that they are well aware of the criteria set for them, so that it becomes more a quick formality to approve their applications after 1 April. I also notice that the Council of State determines that early ultrasound and NIPT for the autumn will be an offer for all pregnant women with high-risk pregnancy and all pregnant women over 35 years of age. That's good. It is also encouraging that health regions should assess how private actors can gain the necessary additional competence to offer the same, but I did not perceive whether the Council of State responded to the question whether it would also mean that health businesses understand that private operators can also contribute to public maternity services by relieving them so that they can speed up the implementation of the offer, and perhaps even contribute to saving public money. I would like to comment on that. Governments also respond well to the progress of egg donation, but do I understand that that means that it is now right around the corner, and that Norwegian women who want to donate eggs can actually contact fertility clinics right now? A brief follow-up to this with partner donation: I record the legal assessments the department has made, but the Progress Party disagrees with them. Once a couple have been approved assisted fertilization outside the body, an equal pair in the privileged situation is that they have a real opportunity to choose whom this fertilized egg should be inserted into, and I believe that the option must be taken by the couple itself, and that it must not be due to a medical evaluation by the doctor. I would like to have some comments from the Council of State as to whether it is the Storting that can clarify the legal interpretation, the majority that constituted the law. The decision of the Grand Duchy to make major changes in maternity care was not hasty. I do not agree with that at all. These changes have been requested and extended for years. The legislative decisions are incredibly good, and I am proud of the historic modernisation of the biotechnology law that the Progress Party helped to get in place. I'm absolutely sure there are also members of the Right who are happy that we got it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e355	Thanks for the feedback. As I think everyone understands, there's a lot of work going on, not least in the directorate, to get this in place, in line with the Stortinge intention. I hope you understand that it is also a demanding priority, at a time when the directorate uses a lot of its capacity to handle a pandemic. But one has been constantly delivering on the deadlines that are set. I am very grateful that the directorate has had the opportunity, and therefore also follow up on what has been Storting's intention. The approval shall be in place until 1 April. This means that a very quick one will be able to get an answer to the application, and the applications are already being examined. The same applies to the question related to egg donation. There's a way that the completed documents will be published very quickly. This also means that the offer can quickly come up. Formally, there's one challenge that neither of us fully knows the answer, and that's access to eggs. I can't help it, there's a dependency that you have donors who set up. How long it'll take to get the eggs available, it's hard to say right now. So there's a question about the interpretation. While it is clear that the Progress Party considers something different now, what is a bit of the challenge is that the recommendation points to medical reasons when the Committee justifies the exemption. The Committee shall deliver its opinion, inter alia: ‘For same-sex couples, there are cases where one woman has good eggs, while the other woman has better conditions for carrying out pregnancy. The majority believe that in such cases it must be allowed to produce a child using partners’ eggs and donated semen. Partner donation provides both women with the opportunity to establish a biological relationship with the child and will reduce the need for egg donation from a third party.’;» It cannot, as we judge it, be read differently than that the Storting has at that time wanted to limit the opening of partner donation if there is a medical need. If the bulk of the population thinks otherwise, this should probably come out explicitly, because the setting here is the setting of a bill proposal, and that is what is in a way the legal basis for the interpretation of the law. How the Storting will contribute to a different interpretation here, the Storting must assess, but we are obliged to deal with the premises on which the Committee and the majority have based this change. Then there have been questions related to private ones, but I get to come back to that in my final post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e375	In the fall I stood on a Sunday in the laundry room and folded clothes, and then a message request was sent to Messenger. We get a part of them, we're politicians, but this was a message that made me goose bump and was incredibly happy. There was a woman who sent me a message to tell me that she was pregnant, and that because of the changes we had made in the Biotechnology Act on 26 May last year, she had had the opportunity to become a mother. It was the decision on assisted fertilisation for solitude that was relevant to her. It's incredibly important to know that what we do in this room actually matters in people's lives, and that we change people's lives with the decisions we make here. I'm very glad that part of what we adopted on 26 May last year has actually been put to work. There was one example of the decisions that took place last May. I want to share another story with you that's an example of something that hasn't been implemented yet. I was on one trip last year – we have mostly stayed here. Then I met a young boy, Kristoffer, who was going to be a father. This was in Northland. He told me that they were concerned that they wanted information about the pregnancy, about the child they're waiting for. They had then traveled to Tromsø, driven 26 miles each way to gain access to a private ultrasound. They had to get away from work, they had to drive far, they had to spend a lot of money on getting this service. This young couple who would have early ultrasound is a good example of why the decision on early ultrasound for all is important. It is a geographical and economical class distinction, as it is now, in access to this healthcare, which many people want, and which provides important information about pregnancy and the child on which it is carried. So there were two examples: an example of what we've been doing, which has become important for people's lives, and an example of how we're not in the direction of what the Great One has decided. In the case of egg donation, the representative Bruun-Gundersen has been good at it. I also asked the Minister of Health just after the New Year and asked for progress and was then confirmed on 21 January this year that the Health Directorate is now starting to process the applications from actors who want to offer egg donation. I think there we are optimistic and happy that this is quite soon in place. Early ultrasound and NIPT are what matters most to most people. We also notice that in the enquiries we received after the decision. Since May last year I have received several dozen enquiries from women and fathers waiting for these services to become available. This has been particularly updated by the Corona situation. Many who previously travelled to either Sweden or Denmark to get NIPT done have not had the opportunity to do so now, and their eyes hope that this would be available in Norway from 1 July. Here I'm less satisfied, to say it like that. When it comes to egg donation, we know that we were ahead, that we had set ambitious targets. With regard to NIPT, we think it would have been realistic to put this in place earlier. This is about using the capacity of the private ones. This is about couples who wanted to buy this service in Norway in line with what they have done in Sweden and Denmark in the past. This was also part of the investigation requested by the Minister of Health from the Health Directorate, which came on 1 November, but it is still a few months before this can be a real offer to Norwegian women, so here I would like to stress that we are impatient. I would like to address something that is thematically covered by the Biotechnology Act, but which may not be entirely related to the decisions we made on 26 May last year. I get some feedback from women who experience that the health service meeting is a bit messy about the NIPT and its follow-up, among other things. a woman entitled to NIPT on the basis of previous pregnancy with trisomi but who was told to perform a private ultrasound prior to accessing the NIPT and that service in the public domain. So I'm just asking the Minister of Health to take a look at that women actually get what they are entitled to in public today in terms of NIPT.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e390	I don't know if I'm actually so very welcome in this debate, but I'm trying. What I want to talk about is priority. One may be in favour of or against the measures adopted by the majority of Stortinges, but the priority is in any case a responsibility of all. It's about making conscious choices about what to do first, and what to wait for, about who to get, and who to get less, or who not to get. Priority choices in the health sector are difficult because they have implications that will be important for life and health, and they must also be consistent with the values of Norwegian healthcare. What's worst is when a non-priority is conscious, because then the priorities take place in the hidden. I note what the Council of State said at the end of its speech, perhaps not entirely worded, but: He would try to ensure that a follow-up to the Stortinge's decisions would not go too far on other provisions in maternity and maternity care, but that it could become a challenge. The council also said that this would require major changes in maternity and maternity care, changes which, in his view, were not properly addressed, and which would have significant consequences for re-prioritisation in maternity and maternity care. I do not understand that the Stortinget can so easily go into such measures and quite forget that there was an aggregate increase that in 2016 was some about the principle of priority in the healthcare service, where all new methods and treatments should be evaluated according to resource, seriousness and utility criteria, and these should be considered together. Now, the introduction of NIPT and early ultrasound to all of them has been except for these priority criteria, and I think – no matter what one thinks of them – that the way this has happened is a great weakness, that one has jumped over what we are otherwise some about to prioritise after. So it's like birth and maternity care isn't just idyllic today. There has been another report in the Health Directorate that shows that there is a major problem with the staffing of the large food departments, that there are not enough people to follow up one-to-one care for women who are admitted. There's a big hole in the follow-up service because there's not enough midwives. There are major challenges in getting enough midwives in municipalities to have proper maternity care and to helping with breast-feeding, etc. There are a lot of birth depressions that don't get good enough follow-up. In Kristiansund we have a situation where one is forced to shut down a maternity ward because one does not get enough gynecologists. Then I thought it was very funny that a set of strict demands on the government that this new measure should be met like this, when we know that many new midwives and many more gynecologists will be required to follow this up. It also writes the Health Directorate in its report: One assumes that there are 55,000 women who are to be born every year – healthy pregnant women who are now to be offered early ultrasound without a known risk. We shall give priority to midwives and gynaecologists in Norway – and as quickly as possible – while otherwise speaking well about not shutting down maternity wards, providing follow-up services and securing staffing at the women’s clinic, so as to give one an experience of a safe and good birth. I'm quite upset about it, simply, because I don't think it's serious to keep it that way, and I'm sad that a person doesn't think about priorities in the health care system when a decision is taken on such measures. The battle for biotechnology and early ultrasound, and this is all over, and I respect that, but I cannot accept that one should introduce new measures and prioritize health resources from the basic health service for women and children and over to new supply, at least not without a deliberate debate on this in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e407	The President would like to make it clear that the representative Toppe is always welcome to the Stockholm Chair to discuss any kind of matter!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e412	I'm a little tired. I'm a little sorry that the government doesn't follow up, suspends decisions or misunderstands what the majority thinks. SV won in 2018 – 2018 – that singles should receive assisted fertilization. The government didn't follow up then. That is why we at Stortinget had to take the law in our own hands. I am proud that women's rights will finally be strengthened. There must be early ultrasound for all and NIPT for those who get early ultrasound results or those who are slightly older. I'm a feminist, and I think the women can decide this entirely even when they get good information. For SV, it is also important that we have had NIPT and early ultrasound for almost everyone, but not in Norway. The kingdoms have traveled to private clinics in Sweden and Denmark. My friend traveled to Sweden to get NIPT. The rich have received the offer, but not those who do not have that much resources. It's important for SV that it should be equal distribution; it should be a equal law for everyone. SV also received a majority in order to offer families with children with these diagnoses to those who get early ultrasound results and to NIPT who show that the foetus has a diagnosis. It is good that the government follows that SV got it into the Biotechnology Act. SV received a majority to allow partner donation – that lesbian women could help each other. We have decided that these couples should be exempted from the rule of anonymous donor – so that one woman can get an egg from the other woman in the relationship. Partner donation should never be allowed only for medical cases, but we have been informed by the agencies to establish rules on partner donation, that it should only be for medical cases. SV believes that partner donation for lesbian couples should be allowed regardless of whether it is medically justified or not. Partner donation is quite different from egg donation and needs to be treated differently. This is what women have to figure out for themselves. I have to be very clear. The Health Minister has heard from the Progress Party and the Workers' Party that they believe that partner donation should be allowed completely regardless of whether it is medically justified or not. If SV says that, the Workers' Party says it, and the Advance Party says it, there's a majority on the Stortinget. Partner donations for lesbian couples shall be lawful even without medical justification. They shall be exempted from rules on anonymous donors. If the government doesn't follow up, we have to override the government – one more time. The Government shall follow a democratic majority in that Chamber. SV expects the government to do its job and follow what the Progress Party, the Workers' Party and SV believe about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e429	The centre party problems prioritising health resources in this case, and it may be a point to bring with it. In this respect, I would just like to stress that the Labour Party in every state budget proposal this period has had a significantly increased framework for hospitals, and that among other things. The midwife's resources have been given a special boost in our budgets. I would also like to remind you that the treatment of this matter was quite challenging, because here the majority of people had to put themselves in the driver's seat to manage to get to these changes in the law. I have to say that those who were the architects behind these changes were doing an incredibly good job on the assumptions that were there. I also expect it to be followed up by the government. We have a prime minister who has encouraged us to make more kids. We need more kids, says the Prime Minister of our country. Yes, it's a really powerfully wanted child. In this respect, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party has the same opinion as the Advance Party and SV. Our intention in the matter of partner donation is that this should be law without restrictions, that they are exempt from the requirement of an unknown donor. When the Council of State then refers to the committee procedure and the example there, different fertility and ability to provide an example of why this should be law. Thus, it was not meant to be a perception that from that point of view it would be limited to women with medical challenges, but on the contrary it would show that it could also have some important medical gains in some cases — i.e. not limited to it. I hope it's clarifying to the Council of State. If I have now understood correctly, both the Progress Party, SV and the Workers' Party have given the same signal – the same parties that were behind the majority that was when the amendments to the Biotechnology Act were dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e438	I would like to thank the debate and many good contributions to it, including from the Kjersti Toppe of the Central Party, which makes important contributions to the debate in order to illustrate the difference between the Central Party and the rest of the Storting on these value issues. For us in the Progress Party, this is about the fundamental rights of women to have access to information about their own pregnancy. It's about women who are concerned about whether the child in the stomach is at all alive, women who are concerned about whether the child in the stomach is doing well, and also whether there are several of them. If you're expecting twins, it's essential to figure out early, so that you can follow up on this in a good way. For us in the Progress Party, it is about providing good health care. The National Hospital's investigation has shown that 85 pst. of pregnant women taking early ultrasound. They pay for it themselves, but there are huge differences in access and the ability to take early ultrasound in this country. So now this is going to be solved. Otherwise, I would like to say that I expect a good response from the Council of State to the issues raised during the debate, in particular this with partner donation – about the signals from the majority who supported the amendments to the Biotechnology Act, is so clear that the Council of State can take it further, or whether we have to take other steps to establish that interpretation. So a little bit about donor code and whether it's defined as an anonymous donor or not. We see in Norway that there are already slightly different practices. This concerns the families who have had children before the entry into force of the amendments to the Biotechnology Act. For us in the Progress Party, it's about helping the families who already have children to get more health care for their children, and I hope the Council of State can help to ensure that a donor code is not defined in violation of the law's requirement for an anonymous donor, so that these families can get more health care for their children. It is also important for us to stress that we still want progress and process in this matter. Private actors out there who have offered early ultrasound to pregnant women for years can be involved as a resource in this work and make progress faster. The private clinics that establish an NIPT analytical capacity may be used by public operators to accelerate progress. In conclusion, I hope the Council of State will consider how he sees that private capacity can be used in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e454	When I stressed that the decision of the Storting in many of the issues involved in this interpellation was hasty, it was not linked to the legislative changes. The law changes were well-established in several rounds, and the Storting used the Ministry of Health and Welfare as a secretariat to design the changes in the law that were made in Stortinget, in a thorough and correct manner, as it is to be done. The majority of these issues are linked to Decision Stortinget which is not about matters regulated by the Biotechnology Act but which are about maternity care and foetal diagnostics. There were a number of proposals that were not re-regulated by the Biotechnology Act, which were unexplored, requiring considerable ex-post investigation work, and which also have major implications for health care priorities, as the representative Toppe has pointed out. It's a relationship that we can't take lightly. In several cases, the size has discussed challenges with capacity and quality in Norwegian maternity care, and these decisions have an impact on the prioritisation of scarce resources in that service. There must be no doubt about it. Then there are raised questions related to the use of private people. I've explained the processes that are there. It is important for me to say that competence in medical genetics and genetic analysis today is mainly linked to university hospitals. What is important is to take into account that the early ultrasound adopted by the Storting is not the early ultrasound that many women today buy themselves. It's something completely different. Early ultrasound as part of Norwegian maternity care will have completely different quality requirements than those underlying what is currently being offered as an offer that can be purchased in the private market. It's not that this can just switch over. The second is that private can contribute, but the challenge is that in case of positive findings it is not private that must follow up. It is then the public service that can follow up today, for example. genetic guidance, and the bulk of the population has been very clear on the quality requirements of these offers. This means that we cannot establish offers from the private individuals who find them, for example. situations, but where the public health service does not have the capacity to properly follow up these findings. So this is related, and it's very important to be conscious of. Follow-up work is done well as soon as possible. But as I said, a lot of this will require a lot more resources in public health. This is not least about staff who must receive the necessary training before they can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e465	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e481	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government. Those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e488	The public sector and our welfare community will face major challenges in the future, also beyond those we see the pandemic situation now giving us. Oil revenues will be reduced, there will be fewer working persons per age, and productivity will have to increase if the public sector is to meet demographic, climate and economic challenges without our welfare society falling. We need to assess continuously how and whether we can solve tasks in new ways, including across sectors and management levels, and that this is clear and prudent. A message like this, an innovative public sector, is important in order to create a good foundation and a basis for further work, where actors are, as far as possible, the sole object of a common perception of the real challenges. This will also be brought up by a single committee in the configuration. This does not mean that we are a few in all measures and all options of action, but society is excited that new innovative solutions can as far as possible be developed and put into use at a much greater pace than before. A single committee demonstrates in its attitude that there is a particular need for an effective public sector that provides good services to citizens, who have a high level of confidence in the population, and who find new solutions to societal challenges in collaboration with citizens, businesses, the research community and civil society. In the hearings it was stated that there had been a broad involvement in the ministry’s work on this message, that this is a message that provides a good overview of trends, status and change needs, and that it also provides a good basis for further work on innovation in the public sector. At the same time, there were recordings that called for more concrete actions. The message points to the fact that the public sector will need more work resources to meet its challenges. At the same time, we see examples of business increasing productivity without necessarily adding more. Essentially, this is because of automation and robotization. Innovation capacity and willingness must be stimulated in the public sector, and cooperation between the public and private sectors can contribute to more innovation, to more radical innovation projects, to a faster transition to the low-carbon society and to the spread of successful innovations. In the committee setting, the majority have pointed out that knowledge is crucial for us to be happy with green conversion. From a number of points of view, it has also been shown that the overall national research effort has little to do with the societal challenges facing municipalities, and that it is not proportionate to the major tasks that local authorities are actually responsible for. At the same time, the municipal sector acknowledges that he has a high level of knowledge needs. It appears that there is generally little research on the areas of responsibility of municipalities, and when it does, the municipality itself is rarely a participating premiscuous provider of the research. The government in the message shows that they have developed three principles for promoting innovation in the public sector. It is that politicians and public authorities need to give room for action and incentives to innovate, that leaders need to develop culture and skills for innovation, where one has the courage to think new and to learn from both mistakes and successes, and that public enterprises need to seek new forms of cooperation. The Committee endorses these principles. With this, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and I look forward to a fine debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e505	Innovation in the public sector is important. Nevertheless, I would like to start by pointing out that we in Norway are going to be proud that we have a strong and well-functioning public sector. We have employees with enormous competences, we are at the forefront of digitisation, compared to many other European countries. We have a public sector that cooperates with business, a cooperation between business and industry is dependent on a predictable and secure framework. And the most important thing: we have a public sector that forms an important part of the welfare state of Norway, which provides security for the welfare state to present itself independently of where we live and the size of the wallet. I would like to remind the right-hand side of this – the right-hand side, which has gone in the front and fought to cut in and privatize as much as possible by the public sector. I would remind them of how demanding it would be for Norway to deal with the pandemic we are in, without a strong welfare state and the public sector. I would remind them of how grateful we should all be for those who keep the wheels running in our welfare state: health workers and nurses, who have saved and continue to save lives and health Nav employees, who have had to throw themselves around to meet the wave of people who have been trained and unemployed employees in the tax haven, who have ensured that companies have received compensation on which they are fully dependent to survive; teachers, who have had to move the teaching from classroom to living room, and who work around the clock for students to hang out with even if everyday school life has been turned upside down A strong and well-functioning public sector is a prerequisite for the trust society of Norway – trust that we all, regardless of who we are, and where we are from, get the best help when we need it. Then we also need to have confidence in the employees who make up the public sector, because even though a lot is good, much can also be better. The public sector employees tell us about a working day in which employees who have worked to save life and health in the pandemic, at the risk of being infected themselves, do not get permanent, full jobs. It's not to trust workers, it's not innovation. The public sector employees tell us about a daily life marked by idiotic target management and reporting. In youth psychiatry they tell about a working day where 20-25 pst. of the time involved in coding and where there is less time for processing for each year running. It's not to trust workers, it's not innovation. The employees who work with what is most important to you and me, our well-being, our children and our elderly, have the least participation at work compared to any other profession. It's not to trust workers, it's not innovation. The public sector has become a dairy business for the consulting industry, and privatisation of welfare means that the offers are no longer linked. Community money is used to build up the bank accounts of individuals at the expense of employees' wages, pensions and poorer public sector environments of competence. It's not to trust workers, it's not innovation. It is a public sector where top managers do not have sufficient competence to make Norwegian employment work, tripartite cooperation and the Norwegian model, a public sector where top managers are left with million wages and pay growth for each year that goes, while ordinary workers are left with lost purchasing power. It's not to trust workers, it's not innovation. The Labour Party is making some powerful proposals today. They are voted down by the right, and I am not surprised, because there are dividing lines in Norwegian policy. For us, innovation is about trust in employees who work daily to give our citizens the best welfare offer. Our proposals make it clear how we will organise and manage the public sector if we are given the confidence to govern the country after the fall. The working party never purchases the right-hand side arguments for privatising and cutting in the welfare country. We need to strengthen the welfare state and ensure proximity to the welfare offer. Now it's supposed to be workers' turn. Together with the employees, we will end misguided target management and reporting, which link time that should have been spent on the people, who are expensive, and who create frustration among employees. We need to ensure a public sector where employees get more participation over their working lives, and where tripartite cooperation is a prerequisite for all processes. We're going to end making decisions at a top level by people who don't know or understand what the everyday life of ordinary employees is like. We need to make a clear settlement with market and privatisation in all parts of the welfare state. We have to call about public welfare and the ideal actors, and we need a public sector that builds up its own in-house competence. It is a prerequisite for delivering a good welfare offer to our citizens and to our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e541	Will the representative Gharahkhani bring up the proposals of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e546	I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e551	Then the representative Masud Gharahkhani has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e556	Innovation in the public sector is widespread. It takes place in both small and large enterprises, and there are small and large innovations every day, including in the public sector. The view of the centre party is that this is a big message that provides a good overview of trends, status and change needs and provides a basis for further work on public sector innovation. Nevertheless, few measures are described. The municipal sector is very large in Norway. There are many dedicated employees working there who focus on providing the best possible services to their citizens — and to those who want the same. In many municipalities and municipalities, on the other hand, the economic situation is tight. In situations where local and regional politicians have to choose between cutting school or care for the elderly, resources that can be used for innovation and innovation are limited. The central party is clear that municipalities and county councils need a local economy that provides room for innovation on the premises of individual municipalities and county councils. In this respect, I would like to stress that the local government sector needs to have more room for action in the design of public tenders in order to promote innovation within its region. Nevertheless, there are a number of possibilities that many either do not know how to use or do not dare to use. In any case, it is necessary for the government to look at risk relief in projects where the local government sector has to sacrifice innovation because the risk is too high. It is important to establish a well-organised scheme for public sector experimentation. The aim of such a scheme is for the Centre Party more innovation, more coherence in the services of people, better quality, better working life for employees and, above all, greater well-being for money. There is reason to recall that the public sector buys goods and services for 560 billion. kr annually. The use of this money is important for the green, digital and innovative public sector. It matters to people's everyday lives, to how communities get opportunities, and to how they evolve. New solutions have to add added value to what we already have. The way in which the right-hand government governs the public sector according to market principles leads to competition in front of cooperation and hinders innovation in the public sector. Competition can be good, but not always and everywhere. Cooperation and exchange of experience may well be so important. Experience has shown that most innovations take place in already existing businesses, and employee participation is crucial to this. The government, as the rapporteur was in the case, lays down up to three principles in the Storing Communication. The centre party wants a fourth principle, which is about to trigger the power of employee-driven innovation. More and more services are becoming digital. Good digital infrastructure is therefore as important as roads, railways and other basic infrastructure. This part of the core wall of society also needs to be built up throughout the country, says the Center Party. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the broadband bet. The alternative is that lack of internet capacity and access will lead to a digital class separation in municipalities and among people and businesses. Here, we must both increase the state's contribution to development and ensure that we build as quickly and cheaply as possible, and not least that all opportunities for progress are used. Innovation through the use of artificial intelligence in the public sector opens up too many opportunities. Technology can solve problems, but it can also reinforce new differences. It is therefore essential that the State ensure that new technologies and innovation do not reinforce and create new social class divisions and geographical or age differences. It is necessary to establish systems to ensure that innovation is shared so that small municipalities can participate in development to the same degree as the large ones. In addition, it is important to provide room for action, and not least to have research on how small business benefits can contribute to innovation and solutions other than those of the large entities. Innovation is not just technology. It's also to think through how to do things differently. I would therefore like to stress that today's research is too little relevant for the municipal sector and too little focus on effects, and that the introduction of new knowledge is too random and fragmented. Finally, I must point out that although the Storting needs to control overall societal development, we must be critical of how state objectives, legislation and objections limit the ability of the local community sector to make local adaptations and promote innovation. The local room for action to make changes is getting smaller and smaller. If there is to be room for new, smart solutions, municipalities and county councils need to be given greater autonomy, which includes: means fewer requirements and openings for objections. With that, I take up the proposal that the Central Party is behind alone. Not least I remind you that there are several proposals that several of the parties are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e586	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e591	SV has very strong faith in innovation and also in innovation in the public sector. We have now presented many proposals in the Stortinget that also contribute to innovation in the private sector and bring forward the jobs we will live from, so that this ghost that the right-hand side signifies that we are getting so many old and that it becomes too expensive to be reduced. But then we can't keep doing that right now. Then we have to shift the subsidies also in those areas to bring about the innovation that brings us the jobs that we can all live from and make money on. It is important for SV to say that there is a distinction between store and welfare, and it is important that we keep that distinction very clear also when we talk about innovation, because it can easily be used as a breakpoint to promote privatisation and more bids and outsourcing in the public sector. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party and the Centre agree with SV that this distinction must be clear, and that we must govern the public sector according to completely different principles in the future. If we are to bring about innovation, the public sector must have a financial framework, they must have time, they must have management structures and philosophies that support it, they must follow the participation of employees in these projects, and they must also have users as an important voice. I have missed that a little in this debate until now. Because there is a lot of innovation in terms of our welfare services in the meeting between users and employees. Well, well-being technology is good, but much of this has to be solved in a better way than we do today, to save time. I fully agree that we should also look at legislation and special targets and counting edges, because many of them are quite meaningless. That's why I am a little surprised that there are no more people on SV's comments about, among other things. The bar help, which has done this in practice and shows how to run good services without too many counting edges and too much bureaucracy. But they report that they have to report on both the one and the other that has nothing to do with the solution of the problem. Well, what we have to do here is the solution to the problem. We have also pointed to Sagatun User Steering Centre, which is driving very important innovation in how users and those working in the public sector can learn to interact in a good way, so that you get a good experience and good services. It is important that the public sector has the skills to make good demands in order to make demands work. Administrations need to establish rules that push innovation. I want to swing into the Western County Municipality, which on its own initiative has asked for emission-free ferries. It has also pushed innovation into the yard industry. Then it's important that we as a crowd follow up with the economy, so this won't be a loss project for those who do. It is important that those who have to claim know what they are doing, because you can't be a good buyer if you don't know anything about what to buy. For this reason, SV is very concerned about the existence of this competence in the public sector, where a lot of innovation can be driven – for example. together with the construction industry, where the public buys a lot, and in the field of ICT. But then it is also important that the public take responsibility for personal safety and the challenges it may be with it, and therefore SV has proposed that we need our own public cloud resolution for this. Of course, there is a cooperation here with the private companies, but we need to know very clearly where the boundaries go and where the authority is. Water and sewerage is another field I have mentioned. I've worked a lot on it and seen how cooperation through public demands can drive a lot of good business and innovation, for example. how to replace broken pipes in a city without having to dig up the whole street or how to use the sludge in the sewer to extract nitrogen, which is lacking. They do that in Hamar; they get it. That is good innovation, and we as public authorities should support this more than we do today. I then take up the suggestions that SV has in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e614	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e620	We are in the midst of a crisis that has forced us to live our lives in new ways. For almost a year we have lived in a collective state of innovation, creativity and familiarity. People have demonstrated an impressive innovative force, even in demanding circumstances. The irony of fate will mean that in the middle of a crucial time in the pandemic, we will deal with a big deal about an innovative public sector, a big deal that requires at least as great an innovation capacity of public enterprises as the Norwegian people have shown in the last year. The government has three principles to promote innovation in the public sector, including: politicians and public authorities need to give room for action and incentives to innovate. When I say action spaces, I'm talking about freedom. The focus must be on the task that the public sector is set to solve, not how to solve it. The population shall be provided with the welfare services they expect and require, the user must be in the centre. The task can be solved in different ways – you can get inspiration from external actors, you can look at other sectors to share experiences, and you can even let private actors do the job if it is the best solution for the user. It is this that is freedom, freedom to devise the best solutions for its municipality, its county or its business – solutions adapted to different locations and different users. Norway needs a lot of public sector innovation in the coming years. Great challenges lie ahead of us. Apart from the aftermath of the pandemic, which will engulf us in the foreseeable future, demography, climate and environment and challenging economic space will force changes in how we set up our public services. In some areas one will have to think again. Then it is legal and necessary to be creative. The state house is an example of this. A few years ago, Left-Rapporteur Alfred Bjørlo asked: What if one co-locates state-owned enterprises that can benefit from each other’s competence and provide an attractive professional environment for potential workers? Today, Bjørlo is rapporteur in City, which is among the municipalities of the State House pilot project. The aim is to see whether interaction between different parts of the public sector can lead to better quality of service, saved time and less costs. The pilot provides opportunities for service innovation and development and is a shining example of the ability and willingness of this government to test new ideas and solutions. The pilot is still in the start-up phase, and we are excited about how this work is developing in the four years that it will take. The committee notes refer to small districts which may have difficulties in recruiting and retaining sufficient skills to develop and provide services. The state's house may be one of several necessary instruments to prevent this in the future. In the Left, we are proud of the House of the State, and we are proud of this pilot project. Innovation knows no limits, so, as politicians, we must not dress up ideological skyscrapers that open up ideas and solutions that can actually be crucial for some businesses. We need to be at the mercy of flock mentality and equal solutions to different challenges. The stuttering message is exciting reading, and we credit for the innovative force that we know after ten months in this pandemic is out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e639	Norway is a good country to live in. The public sector enjoys high confidence in the population, provides good services to citizens and businesses and is a central part of our welfare society. But that doesn't mean we can't get any better. More innovation in the public sector will be essential in order to further develop the provision of services to citizens and to address the major challenges of the present and the future. In the future, Norway will meet trends that challenge the sustainability of today’s welfare society. We get older with a need for care and health care. The proportion of the pre-age population is declining, especially in the smaller central parts of the country. The revenues from the petroleum sector will be significantly lower in the years to come than they have been in the years that we have behind us. The economic space will therefore be smaller. At the same time, climate change shall be limited and managed and sustainability targets achieved. At the top of it all, we're going to get out of the coronary crisis, which in itself has helped significantly reduce our future economic space. In order to meet these societal challenges and at the same time deliver the services that the population expects, deserves and needs, the public sector needs to work smarter. The government will therefore facilitate the innovation of the public sector. The aim must be to deliver better and more sustainable services while contributing to greater value creation. The communication has been entitled ‘Culture, management and competence’. These are sizes which cannot be adopted but which are nevertheless crucial for the success of public sector innovation. We need to have a culture of innovation, a culture to think outside the box, challenge established ways to solve the problems, a culture where it's allowed to try and fail, and where public enterprises dare to define the problem they're going to solve, rather than define the solution to the problem. In order to contribute to such a culture, the government will further develop management programmes that support innovation, digitisation and change in the public sector. We will facilitate increased mobility of managers and employees both in and between sectors through the mobility programme, and we will continue to use the cooperation of the parties as an instrument to increase public sector innovation. To make it safe to try and fail, the government will use tests and tests more systematically. We need to lower the threshold in order to try new solutions, while safeguarding the security and fundamental rights of our citizens, and we need to ensure that successful trials are shared and built on in other parts of the public sector. The Government shall therefore, in cooperation with, inter alia: KS, consider changes in the test law and how we can more systematically use attempts to test new solutions to major societal challenges. Regulatory sandboxes are one of several tools to facilitate testing. We have one for autonomous ships in Trondheimsfjorden, we have several for autonomous vehicles, and the Data Protection Agency is testing one for privacy and artificial intelligence. Then we must have leaders in public enterprises that build up under an innovation culture, seek new forms of cooperation, and that facilitate and trust that employees can come up with new ideas and innovative solutions through dialogue and interaction with users, businesses, civil society and academia. Therefore, a key principle in the Communication is that politicians have to provide space for action and show confidence in municipalities and public enterprises. We must have more trust-based target management and less state detail management. We already have several tools to help the state and the municipality innovate, but we need a more comprehensive offer. Therefore, one of the measures in the Communication is to set up a Innovation Council, with actors from those offering instruments and those using instruments. The government will also review laws and regulations that can prevent innovative ideas from emerging. Promises and rules must be technology-neutral, and they must be more innovation-friendly. Then we need to facilitate more cooperation with private actors in general and start-up companies in particular. Total purchases of government goods and services for nearly 600 billion. kr annually. How we spend that money has an enormous impact on how innovative, digital and sustainable we become in the public sector, but also on what kind of business we get. Often, private actors can come up with new, innovative solutions to public needs. Unfortunately, there are not always the needs and the solutions are finding each other. In the Communication, we are therefore launching a separate programme of cooperation between the public sector and start-up companies, StartOff. StartOff is intended to help more start-up companies across the country get the public as a customer. Hopefully, this will lead to more innovation in the public sector and to jobs, tax revenues and the possibility for start-up enterprises to scale their activities further. Finally, we need to have the skills to put innovations into practice. We need digital skills if we are to take advantage of the innovative power of artificial intelligence, 5G and the Internet of Things, we need to have competence in design, work forms and user involvement, and not least we need to have competence in acquisitions and purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e664	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e669	Does the Council of State think it creates innovation when employees in the public sector do not receive permanent full-time jobs, have at least co-determination, have managers who do not regard tripartite cooperation as a matter of course or have competence in it, have a working day governed by more targeted management and misreporting, and who give employees less time for the inhabitants, while the state has become the dairy industry, top managers have a payroll party, while the workers are left with crumbs and welfare is privatized at the expense of quality of services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e674	No, nor is it a description of the situation today. The reality picture the representative paints, both in his speech from the pulpit instead and in the question now, does not match the reality I encounter when I'm out and meet, for example. rapporteurs from the Labour Party, who are very interested in how they can contribute to more innovation, or rapporteurs from the Centre Party – and in particular with rapporteurs from all parties. The reality out there is not what the representative Gharahkhani is trying to draw it. I have to say that I also react a little to the description of how the public sector is built down under this government, when the public sector has never been bigger than the share of value creation in Norway than it is now. It's 66 pst. It's never been that high. Nevertheless, the representative draws a picture of the construction of the public sector here. It doesn't belong anywhere, maybe except for rhetoric in youth parties or other similar events.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e679	Had the Right ruled for many, many years, we would not have had a strong and well-functioning public sector, which we have now, and which has been absolutely vital for the welfare state to be able to stand up for us under this pandemic. But let me be a little concrete: when seven out of ten health professionals work part-time and have to shop guards, does the Council of State think it's right – that it's innovation? When the same professional group, which is often women, who work with what is most important to you and me, the elderly and our well-being, have at least co-determination compared to all other professional groups? I believe that there is a proper use of community resources when employees in juvenile psychiatry say they use 20-25 pst. of the day on reporting and less time on the treatment of the inhabitants, when the state has become a dairy cow for the consulting industry and spends billions of dollars, while we see that when Nav chooses to build up its own competence, millions of dollars are saved? We have commercial kindergarten chains that invest in luxury property in Spain. Is it proper use and is this public sector innovation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e688	Obviously, the answer is no. But I would like the representative to be a little bit more concerned with what we're actually discussing today, this big news about innovation. There is nothing in the questions asked by the representative that shows that he is actually concerned about innovation in the public sector – how to get it into, what to do – other than to draw an image that is relatively peripheral in the reality we actually live in. Of course, we need to involve the employees in innovation work; it is an important and crucial prerequisite for succeeding in innovation work. I wish that the representative and his party could also be a little more positive to the innovation we're actually implementing, and that turns out to be successful. Take, for example: New Roads. It's innovation that the Workers' Party has been against, because the Workers' Party has been more concerned with how we solve the problem than what results we achieve. That's the mentality change we need to implement in all parts of the public sector. Then we're more concerned with what we achieve than how we achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e695	The working party is engaged in innovation in the public sector, but we're not so much concerned with big business messages made by top-level people. I'm busy listening to the workers out there, who tell me about a situation where for every single year that goes, they spend more time on reporting, time taking away from them the confidence to be able to provide citizens with better services. Then it won't be innovation. When you are told that the right-hand side policy is to be privatised and put out of competition when, for example: in the case of digital solutions, the public competence of public sector employees must be lacking in order to be able to find good solutions that are both economically sustainable and offer better opportunities for both employees and citizens in everyday life. I have mentioned the concrete example: in Nav you save millions on building up your own skills. The same thing we see the police do, while the government's policy is the opposite. Then there will be no innovation in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e700	It is tempting to remind the representative that the government rules both Nav and the police. The good examples mentioned by the representative are on our watch and are thus an expression of the government's policy. We don't have ideological skyscrapers in terms of doing everything by the private sector, or doing everything by the public sector. On the contrary, we need to find good solutions that are appropriate to individual activities, where we have a balance between the competences of the public sector and what can be achieved through cooperation with the private sector. It is quite right that there are many businesses that can make a lot of use of their internal skills, which can also make better purchases and better cooperation with the private sector. It's a win-win situation. Then I don't think the public has a monopoly on good ideas, as it does later for the representative to believe. On the contrary, I believe that the best solutions arise from an interaction between different actors who have good ideas and can play each other even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e709	The Council of State was concerned that innovation is not always technology, but also doing things differently. In this context, it is proposed to look at an obligation for the network companies to examine the possibility, when upgrading the grid, of using fibre as well, so that we can put many of the new technological services driven by innovation into use. The setting states that the Right and some others consider this to be completely unnecessary, they indicate that the broadband extension law should comply with it. But it concerns the development of broadband that is fully or partially publicly funded. The proposal is aimed at turning the issue around and saying that the network companies have an autonomous obligation to investigate, when upgrading, whether there are relevant actors who want to expand broadband. Doesn't the Council of State think there can be an opportunity to look at it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e715	This is a question that lies under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for District and Digitalisation, so that that question needs to be addressed to her. But on a general basis, I would say that it is important that we have a coordination that allows us to deploy as much critical infrastructure as possible in the most efficient way possible. I very much agree with the representative that innovation is not just about new technology, it is also about solving the problems in new and better ways and having an open mind that it is possible to solve the problems differently from what we are doing today. I'm glad the representative has that angle of incidence. This is different from the previous representative who stood on the platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e720	I have noticed that the Minister for District and Digitalisation is not present. In the past, however, government council Astrup has been responsible for precisely digitisation and, among other things, for: to look at how to ensure access for people and businesses throughout the country. I noticed that the Council of State was a little bit both – and here – maybe you should look at this. At least I hope that the Council of State will pass that assessment on, because I perceive that, among other things. The right in the ballot has misunderstood what the proposal really is about. The broadband extension law is a request made by the broadband developer, not a discussion if the network owner also has an independent obligation to actually examine whether there are possibilities to expand. There are many examples around the country where improvements have been made and not clearly managed to achieve this coordination to an adequate extent, regardless of whether it is fully or partially publicly funded. I believe that there would have been a grip that could have been taken – a low-hanging fruit – to ensure better broadband. Does the Council of State not believe that this will be a prerequisite for everyone to be able to participate in digital development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e727	After all, the Minister for Regional and Digitalisation is about to promote a big message during the spring on echoes and broadband, and this kind of issue will be highlighted, so there will be plenty of opportunity for the Stortinge to discuss these issues raised by the representative. But as I said, I think we're all concerned that we should deploy critical infrastructure as quickly and efficiently as possible across the country, so that everyone can take part in the opportunities offered by new technology. This applies to both consumers most, who need access to reasonable and good infrastructure, related to e.g.: broadband, and not least businesses and the public sector, which have a high potential for providing services in new ways if we have good basic infrastructure at the bottom. Now we've had a little crash course through these last few months on how digitisation can take place. I don't think we have all the best answers yet, but this is going to evolve rapidly in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e732	There are very many employees in the public sector who have driven with very good innovation many times. They may not have found cheaper solutions right here and now, but solutions that save money in the long term, and not least better solutions to the task they have. For example, I have seen more attempts on how to deal with people who have been out of work for a long time – there have been trials that have found good methods that last a little longer, that cost a little more here and now, but actually make people stand on their feet. But what happens when that experiment is over? Then it's back to the same thing, because it costs a little bit more in a period. That's why I ask the Council of State to answer, when he talks about innovation, is it only cheaper solutions that apply? Or are there better solutions that apply, so that in the long term we may also be able to find solutions to major societal problems, such as: that many do not return to work if they have been unlucky and fallen out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e737	It is well described in the big news that the government is concerned that attempts should not only be tried, but that we must do what we can to ensure that successful attempts are actually put into practice and become a new normal. So I think it's also important to recognise that if we're really going to get an innovation culture, we don't have to expect that a successful experiment one place is something that is necessarily going to be normal all over the country. It must also be clear that different municipalities and different public enterprises can have a slightly different approach to what is a good solution for them. To answer the representative’s questions, innovation is not limited to attempts and actions that help to save money; it is just as much about being able to provide even better services. I think both perspectives must be with us in the time that comes, because the economic space is going to be different. This means that we need to look at how we can get even more out of the money we spend, also because the population's expectations are high and we need to be able to provide even better services in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e746	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e753	The main task of the public sector is to ensure that the people get the welfare services they expect, and not least have demands. It is a little strange to hear the representative from the Workers' Party today who characterises the escalation reform that the Workers' Party had within psychiatry, and the target management that followed the escalation plan. I myself was a spokesperson at that time and stood in sea boots in a small municipality west of the sea and did not know what form to fill out. Of course, this was not followed by good qualified workers in the escalation plan introduced by the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, after the right came into government in 2013, the scope of the idiotic target management – to use the expression of the Labour Party representative – has been greatly reduced. It is not a good parliamentary expression, yet the representative of the Labour Party used this on what they introduced in connection with the psychiatry escalation plan. But I trust that the municipalities and companies know best how they can achieve the goals that have been set. This gives us the freedom and space for action to use innovative working methods to solve these tasks in the best way possible according to local circumstances. Politicians should have a pragmatic relationship with how we organize ourselves in the public sector, as long as we succeed in delivering good services to the inhabitants. Most people are more concerned with the quality of the services they receive than with who provides these services, but it is clear from the debate here in the Chamber today that the Labour Party does not share that view. The municipalities and the public have come a long way, for example. digitisation of services. See only application processes related to ownership: Electronic application form for a number of services is available at the Swedish Cartel Office. If you call a Cartwork today, answer a great and lovely Western voice from Kinsarvik and turn one over to the right case handler, for example. in Henfoss. But there's also a number of services that can be improved in interaction with the private. Different apps for parking, leisure and reporting to public authorities are services that can be fully delivered by the private sector. Then it's important that the public doesn't develop what's already developed in the private, and that the public can benefit from. But the opposition has ideological skylights, and the consequence is that they put the system ahead of the inhabitants. Good broadband access is important for people. Today, the government is launching a big 5G effort, but such a investment is equally important for business and for the public sector. When we speed up the digital transition using digital welfare services, it will be easier for business and easier for the public. We want to secure jobs, and climate change will go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e766	The President is sure that all parties can find good words to formulate what they think, as the representative himself has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e771	There seems to be a broad consensus in this room that new solutions, whether large or small, are also coming in public, about on a daily basis. It's a vision I share. But one of the things that the Communication discusses and that the Committee has also pointed out is the risk aversion. The Committee noted in its comments that there is a risk aversion as a result of both legal and political responsibilities, but we could also have added financial responsibilities or expectations to the quality of those who are recipients of services and products. It's a challenge to lead a municipality that's going to run with vast innovation, whose room to make mistakes is roughly equal to zero. That's one of the challenges we're facing. I have to say that it is one of the issues that neither the opposition nor the government and government representatives in the Storting have any good answers to how we should solve. We are very good at going to and criticizing if there are any mistakes. It's also quite obvious – I can for example. refer to the Nav scandal we are going through – that it is problematic to make mistakes in basic statutory rights. That dilemma has not been adequately addressed, either by the government in the communication or to the extent in the discussion in the committee, and we have not yet found the means to change it – we shall call it – the opinion and the public conversation about how we accept mistakes, and what mistakes we accept and do not accept. So I have noticed that the Council of State is concerned both in its contribution and in the message with the employees and competence. I share that view that most of our national wealth is the value of our future function. Our future function will consist less and less of work with hands, it will consist to a greater and greater extent of work with the head. More and more jobs are becoming more and more complicated, and the best investment we can make is to provide more education, both basic education, building on and, not least, training that gives you the chance to renew and be relevant to your working life, whether in the private or public sector, throughout your life. Nor has sufficient attention been given to the government's communication: how should the challenge of building up that competence be addressed? On the other hand, I have noticed one thing that the government fraction has lifted up and recognized, that we from the opposition have criticized in recent years, and that is the increasing use of consultants. The fact that the importance of in-house competence is just highlighted, that it is also an important contribution to creating innovation, is at least a step forward. I still think we have something to go on, and we should discuss the balance between buying consultants and having in-house competence: is it correct? No, I don't think so, I think it's shifted too far towards consulting in the state in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e782	Several have pointed out that we have a strong public sector in Norway with many skilled staff engaged in providing good services to citizens and users, a sector that depends on trust in society for the proper use of resources, and the quality of service experience. Demographic trends and less oil money in the future also make the fight for economic resources harder. This is precisely why efforts to strengthen the pace of innovation in the public sector are so right and important. Research creates new opportunities, but innovation creates a new reality. The innovation process is about the whole chain from identifying a challenge, creating a new solution or opportunity and until a new reality. The capacity of organisations for innovation and development is a result of the ability to combine different competences, resources and networks. In 2014, the Public PhD Scheme was established. It was an important measure to increase the necessary public research competence. It contributes to strengthening the pace of innovation and to increased interaction between the academia and the public. In addition, research institutions are given increased insight into public sector knowledge needs and current needs in the sector. An important objective must be for the public sector to become even more capable suppliers of relevant research projects, not just research objects or contributors. A good climate for innovation is created when skilled employees are in dialogue with users, when public sector, business, civil society and academia come together to find good solutions and good interaction venues. One of our most important tasks, therefore, is to facilitate the creation of these interaction arenas. I am pleased that the government so clearly demonstrates that they will help explore new types of cooperation between the public and private sectors and encourage the public sector and industry to cooperate on testing environments for the development, piloting and quality assurance of innovative solutions. In the South, we have seen good effects in recent years from new areas of interaction between business, the public sector and the academia. A good example is the i4Health lab in Grimstad. This involves health professionals, users, researchers and students. They work side by side to try out new, innovative health technologies. In the education sector, we also see that the innovation aspect has become part of many educational pathways. Innovation work requires a culture of innovation, where testing of new ideas is more valued, and where emphasis is placed on providing back-to-back coverage for innovative decisions. It is an attitude-building work in which we, as politicians, can also contribute to further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e795	Few people really want an inefficient and poorly managed public sector. On the contrary, I'm pretty sure that most people want a public sector that's up to its time and spends its resources in the best possible way. A strong and well-functioning public sector that takes responsibility is fundamental to the welfare society we have managed to build. We see it very clearly now: when crises hit society, when crises come, whether there are financial crises, or who now, when it is pandemic, it turns out that even those who have thought for a long time that we should privatize more and build down the public sector suddenly lean heavily on the same public sector. It was the state and the public sector that had to save the banks in their time, and it is the state and the public sector that in the pandemic we are now in, is the tool for businesses to be able to keep their heads above the water. It is also the case that a strong public sector is what makes it possible to help ordinary people through the crisis — with, for example, the use of drugs. extended rights in the case of permitting legislation, day-to-day arrangements and that kind of thing. A weak and small public sector would not be able to handle this properly, as we now have the opportunity to do. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that we must operate the public sector effectively. Those who are trying to say something else are right on the wrong track. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that the public sector should have a mission to develop new solutions, better solutions and more effective solutions that benefit people and businesses across the country. In fact, we believe that privatising more, for example. in the field of health, is not the way to go. That's not what gives society the opportunity to tackle the challenges in a good way. That we have strong and up-to-date research environments and professionals in e.g. the protection of infectious diseases has also proved to be essential. If we are to take Norway further and out of the crisis, for example: This needs to be addressed – referred to as a reform, the ABE reform – not a good medicine. It's a bad medicine. It's not a good way to get a better public sector. One must be far more focused than making flat cheese needs without political priorities in itself. We need to ensure that the whole country can participate in the development of competence. We have to make sure that the whole country can participate in digitisation. That is why we need both a trust reform, a principle of subsidiarity for government governance, decentralised education and public services near where people live. Then we just get to enjoy that even the strongest critics of the public sector see that when the crisis comes, a strong and good public sector is necessary to have at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e817	It's tough times. More than in the past are out of the labour market, while some enterprises are struggling, while others are experiencing time-trafficking. In the future, we need to be able to see the individual and build good services, and it requires increased awareness, good interaction and regular communication. We have to create more and include more. The government’s objective is an efficient public sector that provides good services to its citizens, has a high level of confidence in the population and finds new solutions to societal challenges in collaboration with citizens, businesses, the research community and civil society. This cooperation is essential for the welfare society of the future. Unfortunately, it seems that the left side will now create a stronger distinction between actors rather than look at the possibilities for interaction. It's each of us who want to lose on this. In Nordre Follo, social entrepreneurs have collaborated with Nav to train beekeepers. The adventure started with Baskit – a young boy who had a dream of making honey. When it turned out that half of our honey is imported, the road was paved. Today Baskit and more youths are trained with him as beirologists, and they have made a living. Locally, farmers report more berries on the berry bushes, and pollination insects have improved their living conditions. It is a project that has multiple benefits for society and an explicit objective to increase the proportion of young people and immigrants in the horticulture – a way to a highly needy industry. We have to give back coverage to this kind of project. On the right, we think that we get a better offer when we release other actors, including in the welfare sector. Similarly, more cross-border cooperation can also take place in the public sector. In the Ashker municipality, they have learned that community provides good services. Asker welfare lab is a cooperative model where families or young people in a difficult life situation receive comprehensive help over a longer period of time. There, the municipality sees welfare as an investment, not an expense. A three-child mother came out of a difficult situation. In the past, Nav had thought that she was not engaged enough to get to work, while child protection thought that she did not have enough time to follow up her kids. She was in a difficult cross-breed while the problems just grew. A young boy tells me that for the first time he experiences being selected first on the football team, and a father has gotten faster and better help, while he was not getting away from work to attend all these meetings. When the system decided to invest in the individual, everything changed. This is, of course, the welfare society of the future. Then it's our job to give this space of action, because we need leaders in the public sector who develop a culture of innovation, where one dares to think new, and where one learner of his mistakes and successes. Innovation creates values for both society and individuals, and with good interaction we get the best services in both the public and private sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e832	We're facing major challenges, and we have to think in the long term. By 2060 we are twice as many over 70 years and five times as many over 90 years. Many of these will be healthy and contribute to volunteering and be good grandparents, but very many will need help. We want skills and labour shortages. Therefore, public opinion must think smarter and not least develop a culture of innovation. How are we gonna do that? The Communication points to the use of technology, but not least to the importance of leaders who have the courage to think new and public enterprises that need to seek new forms of cooperation to bring about the innovation we want. We have to give a bigger space for action. It means freedom, and that means that the space of action is not to be turned in. The Labour Party's proposals in the case, on which the Centre Party and the Socialist Left are involved, put real innovation in the public sector in reverse. There is talk of the dangers of privatisation and that the welfare offer will then be reduced. You have to have all the competence in-house, as you're told. But this isn't putting the receiver in the center. The working party does not talk about the users of the services to be provided by the public at all. There'll be talk about the systems. The scare picture used about private actors in the welfare state is completely unfounded, because it is that the service does not meet professional objectives, we have mechanisms for control and transparency, and if we are not satisfied, we are going to wind it up. There is absolutely no research that says that a service performed by a private supplier is worse than the public service. The notification addresses acquisitions and how government can exploit the power of innovation in start-ups and, in particular, social entrepreneurs. As has been said from the pulpit, it buys public services for billions of dollars. This means that the public has a great responsibility to provide the providers of these services. It concerns equipment and equipment for schools, kindergartens and hospitals and the development of cultural houses, sports halls, etc. There is a great potential for development through public acquisitions and collaboration with test environments, universities and industry, not least, of which this is a scare image. We want to test new solutions for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e845	There are some value differences between the lots here. It is about the fact that the right-hand side is less willing to provide the public with the space to achieve the highest possible quality, have the expertise to do so, have the space to drive innovation, have the space to cooperate between themselves and, not least, with those who will have services, in order to optimise it. To those who want the business group with dividend claims to come in: I heard a representative from the Right was up and talked about social entrepreneurs. That's what I've been working on for a long time, and you're not a social entrepreneur if you have a profit claim and are commercial. Then you're an entrepreneur. We have nothing against social entrepreneurs in this. On the contrary, it's very good, but then there has to be room in public to be able to learn from this and continue with the good ways of working, so that you can solve the problem. There is no need to cover the ideological distinction where the right-hand side wants private business to operate on our welfare services. That's SV against. We believe that the money we pay into taxes and grant for this, should go for that purpose, and that there should be room there to drive innovation. So to competence in the public sector. I'm a little shocked if someone from the Right thinks we shouldn't have it. All the technical services that the public has to buy – within e.g.: construction, construction, ICT – can absolutely create innovation in the interaction with private business, but then the public has to have the expertise that enables us to both know what to have, and can control the quality and not be tricked, because we have been, many times. It is absolutely necessary for the public sector to be the good driver in cooperation with the private sector, where it is natural to have far higher competences in very many areas than today. Then we have to stop having so many consultants. We have to make sure to have the competence sea, in the organization, whether it's in the municipality, state or state. It's incredibly important. Finally, we must not remove the rights of people in this work. There are a lot of reports that are made, which I've often wondered if people are reading. We're getting reports from the National Audit Office, and we're discussing them here, but I'm kind of in the mood if it's really being taken in, what it says there, or in a lot of the research we're initiating, and many of the reports we get about a lot of things being done in new ways. There are no systems for how to deal with new knowledge and innovation in any of these public systems, and we are losing a lot on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e858	The Norwegian welfare state meets most of the social needs of our society. For example, there is a large public system of work inclusion, as we call Nav, which covers tasks left to private and voluntary actors in many other countries. However, in some areas, there are needs that the public supply does not fully cover, among other things. in the case of youth, outreach, care for the elderly and the inclusion of refugees. Here we see that social entrepreneurs and social enterprises fill a need for interaction with the public. In connection with this message, the government has chosen to promote social entrepreneurship for innovation in the public sector. Why is that? Well, because we're busy with good conditions for the use of social entrepreneurs and voluntary sector in the welfare system. We need to include more, and social entrepreneurship is important to get more involved in work and activity. We need good models of cooperation between the public sector and social entrepreneurs, so that new ideas can benefit more. So who are these social entrepreneurs? Are they the terrible privatization, which the representative Gharahkhani used his rhetorical force of initiation? Most of the activities in this field are relatively small – there are fewer than five added. Many people have important cooperation relations with municipalities. Social entrepreneurs are in a border country between the private sector, the voluntary sector and the public sector. «We are no competitor of the public sector. We are a supplement." It writes Linda Øye, who is founder of From Victim to Warrior AS. She called for the worker perspective of the Workers' Party after they called it a welfare profit. How do we back up policy so that the public can make a good choice of innovative partners? Innovative purchases are demanding and require a high level of competence. The red-greens point to the importance of partnership for radical innovation in the setting. They also encourage the Ministry to contribute actively to this work. That's promising, but my question is, what kind of self-contradictment is there in what the Labour Party is presenting here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e871	Until now, it's just to replicate that there's no contradiction. It's an attempt to create a contradiction, because there are, as the representative Karin Andersen had in mind, some ideological differences. I asked for the word again because there are some more specific things in this Communication and in the Committee's position that I would like to highlight and underline. Firstly, there is a broad consensus to support during the government's efforts to underpin sustainability objectives. I am very happy that you now focus on that work. What's going to be very challenging is how we're going to be able to document it, how we're going to measure it, how we're going to figure out whether we're approaching the targets or not. For economic sustainability, we have well-tested systems to measure whether this is economically sustainable or not, but when to start measuring ecology, for example. the value of alternative land use, which is a major challenge in the municipal sector, we have few, if any, tools to do so in an appropriate way. The same applies to the side of sustainability related to social or cultural sustainability. How are we going to do that, and how are we going to keep these three perspectives up to each other? I have noticed that the government has announced an action plan – in the form of a big message – for the work on sustainability objectives. I welcome it, but I really hope that the Council of State will find room to discuss tools and tools for how we can systematize this work, so that we can keep up the pace. The entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has highlighted the consultation input from the Technology Council, which addresses the problem of experimentation, often referred to as regulatory sandboxes. The Technology Council has promoted examples of principles that should be used when dealing with them. In the Committee's work, it has also been said that the government is looking forward to developing such principles in an appropriate way. That's the majority of the Biggest for that. It is quite conscious that it has not been promoted as a proposal, but it is a broad majority in the Grand Duchy for that to happen, and I am absolutely sure that the Council of State has noticed it and will follow up that work. The Technology Council has also made a different contribution, as a minority in the Committee, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, are behind it. It is about the need for a new digital social contract. Now that digitisation is taking place and changing the way we both use and receive services – the way we live our lives – there is also a need to discuss how that relationship should be regulated. It should also have been followed up by the government by formulating a draft digital social contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e886	Today, we are addressing an important communication on innovation in the public sector that I believe sends a clear signal about how, through change and development, we can create even better services, with the user and the citizens at the centre. The Communication points out that Norway has a good starting point for innovation in the public sector and that its citizens have a high level of confidence in the sector and public authorities. We have a highly educated population, and the use of digital services is high. The basis for development and improvement lies a great deal in how innovation and data are managed. It is therefore important that the treatment of this Communication in the Storting should also bring forward the archive sector, which has great potential for improvement and is an important basis for future innovation. I am pleased to see that a Joint Committee is in favour of a comment that addresses the opportunities that lie within the sector and which highlights the importance of the modernisation and digitisation of the Archives' own activities, and that they take an active part in innovation activities together with other enterprises, both in the private and public sectors. Technology offers great opportunities to speed up the process and to provide services more user-oriented and to share and exploit data across sectors. The archives of the future will be important sources of knowledge and the use of artificial intelligence to better solve these problems. In my view, it is important to make innovation free the human resources, so that the warm hands and employees, with their care and empathy, can better be used in services directly aimed at users, and perhaps less on processing and reporting. Mr Eidsheim said that Norway will face major challenges in the future and that the public sector will have to work in a different way to solve the same tasks as today. Demographic challenges, the decline in revenue and the loss of oil revenues are a well-known and accepted future horizon. In order to achieve a good culture of innovation, politicians and public authorities need to provide room for action and incentives to innovate. Leaders need to develop culture and skills for innovation, where new thinking and learning about mistakes and successes are needed. Public enterprises need to seek new forms of cooperation, and this can be done in areas where there is now a need to address the challenges in a different way. The representative, Lauvås, makes claims about the Right in his post. I would like to point out that yes, we want to strengthen both ‘in-house’ digital competence and to ensure stable access to competence through cooperation, including through the use of consultants. For us in the Right, it's not either – or what we're going to use – we're going to use all the good forces to achieve these goals of innovation. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e903	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e908	First, I would like to give a great deal of support to the last article by Mr Sivertsen. There is a major and fundamental difference between the voluntary sector, social entrepreneurs and commercial actors. Every time we discuss this, the Right brings out some small social entrepreneurs who are, as well, representatives of the large international groups who are interested in taking billions of our welfare services and taxes. That's SV against. The difference is great, it's sharp, it's principled, and it should be recognized by all. The second is that we're talking about the action space in the future. Yes, it comes to point one, whether we are able to shift the food policy instruments so that we can create the green, renewable jobs we can make money on, and point two, whether we are going to spend more money on common welfare or on increased private consumption, whether the differences are going to go up or down. If the differences go down, we'll create more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e915	The debate is coming to an end, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank for an engaging and good debate, which raises both what is of challenges and what is of dividing lines. I still ask myself a little question about where this crystal-clear limit should actually go – between what's a nice private thing and a cynical private one. The clear view of the right is that business can be both — and is — composed, and that even international companies that make money can be an important contributor to our welfare system through social entrepreneurship. In conclusion, I want to bring forward the whole thing that will initially be very important for further development of innovation as well. In the Right, we're concerned that the whole country will have equal digital possibilities. The pandemic situation has just underlined our potential for digital communication. Our big common task is to make sure that everyone can take part in and exploit the technology. The International Telecommunication Union, ITU, believes that the driver for 5G deployment could lead to commercially attractive cities, such as larger cities, being favored, and that one could get more digital divides. In the work on this message, we in the government parties have, therefore, been concerned that the digital policy is being reviewed, so that different instruments such as: frequency management, take-off schemes, local land management and public procurement management, provide incentives for rapid deployment, greater security and societal priority of 5G. So it's extra happy that the government just today announces a frequency discount of up to 560 million. kr in the upcoming 5G auction in September. This means that providers will be able to get a discount against expanding areas that would otherwise not be prioritised first. This is a bet on broadband in the districts. It is important that we start assigning new frequencies, and it is not least important that the new rules that Mr. Nkom is presenting today ensure new uses and give us a boost both for the data-driven economy and not least for the competitiveness of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e926	I want to thank you for a good debate on innovation in the public sector and end with a few words that, at least, I think are important. One is that we cannot limit the debate on innovation to this message. The important message in this communication is that the way we think about innovation needs to be integrated into everything we do. It may be an important reminder to all of us that when we have good intentions and make detailed decisions on how to organise different businesses, we can stand in the way of innovation. When we from Stortinget or local politicians are sure how to solve a problem, yeah, we like to do it like that, but it probably stands in the way of even better ways to solve the problem. If we're going to succeed in innovation, it's also about we need to dry down to tie ourselves and just trust that public businesses, municipalities, around the country, those who have their shoes on and know where to print, can find even better solutions, and give them tools and tools to just trigger the amazing potential that's out there. The representative Sivertsen raised an important issue: how are we going to get a culture where it is allowed to try and fail, in a society where making mistakes, especially when making mistakes in taxpayers' money, punishes itself? Well, for inspiration, an example from the municipality of Bærum, which each year awards a prize entitled ‘Best Error of the Year’. There you can nominate someone who has tried something and failed, and they with the best error get a price. What can we learn from this? Well, the moral of this story is that we're going to have a culture where it's allowed to try and fail, we also have to break up the projects in such a way that the risk becomes small. We have to eat the elephant in small pieces. Then the risk will be much less, and thus it will be possible to test things out. That's exactly what's meant by this message: saying something about having a culture to have an experiment, to test things, in small -- and maybe in a little bit bigger -- but we just have to think a little bit differently about these things. So to the representative Andersen, who sometimes makes it sound as if the government thinks that everything should be solved by commercial forces, and that by definition they are negative, while most of it should be solved in the public sector. I believe that the government's approach to this is an intermediary, namely that the public and private sectors can do a lot of good separately, but that they can do it even much better if they cooperate. That's our approach. Here it is SV and the Workers' Party that have changed significantly since they joined the government itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e937	It sounds wise to eat elephants in small pieces, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e943	I just have to react to Eidsheim’s – as I understand it – claim that it is like the Workers’ Party that stands in the way of the development of the public sector. So you're pretty historyless just trying to squish into a statement like that. I recommend the representative of Eidsheim to read recent Norwegian history, she can start with 1946 and forward, and she will see who it was that stood for the good solutions that brought Velferds-Norway to the point where we are today – who was central to the development of the systems we have and which most think are good. The history of the Right in that development is not as clear – or, it is clear in that way that the Right has been largely opposed and largely voted against all the proposals that have come to raise the community, make sure that we go into the flock, lift everyone up, that everyone should participate and participate in the development of prosperity in this country. That's the story of the Right. The representative of Eidsheim must try to read his story, not falsify his story about this from the pulpit of Storting. The Labour Party wants a strong and good public sector, because we see that it is what is necessary for us to be able to cope with crises. I was in the past posts, and others have been in the past posts, that a weak, small public sector, as the Right really wants to have it, is unable to deal with the crises that Norway has experienced in modern times. Then we can mention the financial crisis as one of them, and now this pandemic we are facing, as another of the crises that a weak and small public sector would not have been able to deal with. We in the Labour Party believe in the community, we believe in a strong community, we believe in a strong and good public sector that helps to lift the whole country, everyone who lives here, with equal rights and equal opportunities. We believe in a society with little differences. We don't believe in the Right Privatisation Society, where everyone has to take care of himself. Then we arm our society poorly for the next crises that come – because they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e954	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e971	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e978	The case concerns a proposal from the representative of Moxnes to anchor Norway’s action in the Security Council by establishing a body of its own on the occasion where the Stortinget will be able to make its recordings while Norway is a member of the Security Council. Its purpose is to ensure a public debate on Norway's positions in the Security Council, to ensure a democratic anchoring and to obtain legitimacy for government policy. I would like to say that public debate is being held everywhere. It shall also be kept in this room. This is where we deal with the proposals we get from the government, we deal with foreign policy, and through our budgetary work we also give more concrete leadership. In all modesty – and it's going to be a little speech on behalf of the government as well: we have a foreign policy that is basically democratically anchored. It's not hanging in the loose air. We have parliamentaryism. An overwhelming majority of the Committee believes that the guidelines and the governance we have safeguard these considerations, in fact even better than what such an advisory body should do, also because it would be possible to discover that if the Stortinge has strong leadership in the process, the Stortinge will be cut off from the back-testing that is so important to the parliamentary work and the functional distribution we have between the state powers. For the Storting, there is no room for criticism of positions taken on the basis of in-house advice, rather informal and in another body, which will not be publicly accessible. So the Storting had to exercise control of itself. It's a tautology and a contradiction. Fortunately, my committee colleagues seem the same, largely, so it is a large majority that stands at the function distribution we have between government and greatness. It was supposed to be missing, too. Our control tasks are directed towards closed facts, towards official acts. As regards the implementation of the political overarching leadership given by the Stortinget, it is among other things. the subject of a political debate — ongoing, one does not have to wait for the government to be out of office. As we know, this is happening in relation to all the other general documents of a strategic nature that Stortinget is being treated. We express ourselves through general norms and general leadership, and then we have an executive part of our constitution, which is the government, which is the office. And also in order to be able to make decisions quickly and effectively, we have to stick to this function distribution. I will not spend so much time on a nuance where the Workers' Party has declared a disagreement. This is the very basis of premise, where the rapporteur refers to the fact that our constitution also gives – in the foreign and defence sector – exclusive competence in a number of areas to the government. It does not interfere with the reasoning that the Workers' Party disagrees with that opinion. We may come back to this, if the Workers' Party will take time to elaborate on the understanding of the Basic Law Section 25, but it has no significance for the task we are going to do here today, and which is that an overwhelming majority in the Committee advises the Stortinget not to adopt the proposal of the representative of the Moxnes, refers to the governance we have, and that through the Committee we have agreed that it may be appropriate for the Foreign Minister to make a further policy statement with emphasis on the participation of the Security Council in the period we are members of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e991	The exercise of Norway's membership of the UN Security Council needs democratic anchoring, and the UK already has a body for consultation with the government on important foreign policy issues. At the same time, there is a risk of abuse of the enlarged Foreign Committee. It should be used whenever necessary, and we should strive to maximise the transparency of foreign and security policy. I am pleased that the Committee has gathered by lifting Norway's role in the Security Council in the Chamber, and thus also in the public, through half-yearly presentations and debates as long as Norway is a member of the Council. At the same time, I disagree with the proposal that Norway – as the only country in the world – should practise full transparency on so-called voice exchange agreements. If we were to put ourselves on such a line, it would actually represent a severe weakening of Norwegian position and influence. Yes, we will, in effect, dismiss the possibility of seeking a number of international positions. If Norway fails to apply for prominent international positions, there are positions that are filled by other countries that stand very far away from us in terms of value and politics. I would like to stress that in a world where human rights are under pressure and where international law is under pressure, it is more important than ever that countries such as Norway take and apply for positions in international organisations. I am, as the representative Michael Tetzschner had in mind, quite amazed at the perceptive position of the Right, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party in this matter with regard to some of these comments. One thing is that it is a strange claim that the establishment of a new committee or body requires amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting because the Storting has no tradition of setting up temporary committees. Then I just want to point out that the Stortinge Rules of Procedure § 18 opens up such special committees, and it is not many months since we set up a so-called Korona Committee. However, I do not think that would be appropriate in this case. The far more serious thing is that the same parties are talking about government prerogatives, or special rights, in foreign policy and are introducing something new in their remarks that this also applies to defence policy. Here I believe it is important that the Foreign Minister clarify what is really the situation. First of all, this is a serious misconception of state law and history about the distribution of power between government and magnification. Paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Constitution clearly distinguish between foreign policy and defence policy, what is in the hands of the government, and what is in the hands of the Stortinget. Let me give you an example: in foreign policy, it is up to the government to set up and shut down embassies. In defence policy, the Stortinget decides to establish or abolish Norwegian defence bases. These clear differences between foreign policy and defence policy have been with us throughout Norway's democratic history, from the 1814 Constitutional Act. This means that, in the first place – that the government's special position in foreign policy also applies to defence policy, as the Right writes – it must be an expression of the desire for political change. In that case, it will be a dramatic change in Norwegian defence policy, a shift in lines and a sharp shift in power from the Stortinget to the government. That would be undemocratic. I'm surprised at this. It may hardly be due to an accident at work, because through the committee work we have made it clear that this is something we have disagreed about all along. That's why I would encourage the representatives from the Right, the Center Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party to clarify: do they really mean this? Are they really behind this dramatic shift of power from the Storting to the government? I support the fact that it is the government that has a prerogative in foreign policy. We've had more discussions in this room to instruct the government in voting in international organizations. I'm not a follower of that. It is then that all the information is given to the government and is on the government's table, so I believe that the government should have the opportunity to do so. I would like to express my strong support that Norway is now taking part in an important work in the Security Council. When we experience situations like Myanmar, I think it is important that Norway sits around the table. There are parties, like the Red Party and the Advance Party, who have spoken out against this, but I am pleased that there is broad support in the Great Britain to take on duties in international organisations. The alternative to Norwegian influence is that other countries have that influence, and that is not necessarily in line with the values that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1008	First, Mr Huitfeldt, who spoke about the conflict in Myanmar. Yes, it is obviously of interest to Norway. I think most people out there in Norway, the Nordics most and the voters, are very concerned about how things are going in Myanmar – just so they say. The Progress Party has consistently opposed Norway's active search for a place in the UN Security Council. Norway’s place in the Security Council will potentially force us to make decisions that Norway alone is not worthy of. Foreign policy and general policy by politicians elected by the Norwegian people shall serve Norway’s interests in the short and long term. The Progress Party cannot see that a seat in the UN Security Council is in line with such a commitment. Over time, a position has been established that Norwegian foreign politicians have a unique capacity to create peace and reconciliation. At the same time, it is claimed that Norway has to contribute, but this rather fluid ambition raises the question of what we are going to contribute to. Sometimes we hear that our unique position is because we're small. Next time we hear that it's because we have financial muscles. Sometimes we hear that it's because we don't have any global ambitions. A little unclear and diffuse, it is later claimed that everything is in Norway’s interest. What is quite clear is that active participation in the mainstream policy alone does not have an upside for Norway. It is clearly a big front for actors involved in this work. In our place in the Security Council, we will have to take a stand on matters that we could otherwise not have a view of, and resolved in silent diplomacy. The last example of many is how Norway should define China’s relationship with the country’s minority of uighurs. The new US Secretary of State defined China's treatment as a genocide, while the U.D. mumbled a little bit cryptic. Of course, this is because a brutal characteristic will bring us into line with China, which is not in Norway's interest. As a major force, it is the privilege of the United States to be tougher in words and actions, precisely because the country has strength and self-interest in such a case. So for the matter in question. The majority claim that the Stortinget should act only as a body which exercises subsequent control over final negotiations. This is not a clear message. It's an attempt to hide behind constitutional practices. The majority also writes that Stortinget should not be a government adviser. But that is not what the proposal is about. It's not like it's supposed to be an adviser. It is not in the proposal either. You try to turn over a proposal where it's not written. No one is asking the government to conduct foreign policy on the basis of debates in the United Kingdom, but at the same time it is very important that the Stortinget be informed about matters and Norway’s views on the basis of decisions taken, among others. as Norway’s argument and decisions in the Security Council cannot be seen in isolation but will affect a number of aspects of Norwegian policy in general. A parallel can be the EEA agreement in Norway, where through our membership we have had to give up something of our own in order to safeguard our commercial interests. We'll get something for that. It's in Norway's interest. This is not the case in the Security Council. Norway will have to think of a major action policy that doesn't give us anything back, but makes us stand between the bark and the wood, which only has one downside. It concerns both safety and business policy. This is precisely why transparency is essential. Balances made by the government should not be kept secret, but discussed in advance. A temporary forum, as proposed, will ensure that foreign policy debates at the main hall have the necessary relevance and ensure that the Storting has the necessary information to conduct debates, with access to as much identical background information as possible. It is a strength for democracy. The majority indicate that the government can choose to provide guidance in the extended Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, DUUFK. But such briefings contribute to the opposite of transparency. When information is provided in DUFK, information is assumed to remain in DUFK and democratic debates are impossible. It is clear that the support of the Progress Party for proposals No. 1 and 2 of the draft representative tabled by Red, not because of our desire to support a single little tab of Red's foreign policy. But that's not what this case is about. It's completely irrelevant. We're talking about process. We want a foreign policy that clearly puts Norway's interests first, and our balances will always have such ambition. This applies both to what Norway is doing and to what Norway is not doing. But we realize that there is no fascination for such questions. For this reason, the Storting should be given insight into how the government thinks, not only in a debate as a control function. The fact that the government is presenting important issues in advance does not mean that the government is changing its foreign policy. Such a presentation ensures a debate in advance, not a debate on the snow that fell last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1027	In the introduction, I have to do well to make sure that the central part of an incursion is in several notes with the government party where we should not be in prison. There is a lack of communication with us by giving up the setting and perhaps a bit of a difficult relationship by giving up, proposals that came up last little, but in any case we say we're sorry for it. This applies first to the issue of the establishment of a new ad hoc consultative body between the Stortinget and the Government for work in the Security Council, including amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge. According to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 18, the Storting may set up its own committees to deal with matters of various kinds, and has also done so at several times. The central party therefore does not share its view of the government. The next remark that the Central Party should not have been associated with the Government Party relates to the extent to which its government's prerogatives are particularly strong in both the foreign and defence spheres. In the same note, there is also what I would call a trendy reference to the role of the Great Government, that there is no room for an advisory role for the Great Government. No, but there's always room for dialogue. The Central Party respects the fact that the government has special rights, so-called prerogatives, before foreign policy, but fully shares the views and foundations of the Labour Party as to why this does not apply to defence policy, and that it is without doubt a major change in Norwegian foreign and defence policy if it stands as the vision of the majority of the population, a position of the Central Party will distance itself from it. After these clarifications, I will do the right thing for why the Center Party does not support the Red proposal. The size of the population has a built-in system for the government to inform the Biggest on important issues through meetings of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee. It can be used in a much better way than today, as we feel that Storting can be oriented very late in the processes, and even after you may have read about things in the media. Here is the potential for improvement. Furthermore, the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes to Stortinget and gives open information, which the Minister is very welcome to do more frequently, even in the margins of major issues to be addressed by the UN Security Council. It is important with the greatest possible openness, which the Foreign Minister himself has clearly highlighted, not least in advance of membership, when a driving campaign to host the Security Council. The Central Party supports Norway's taking responsibility and international responsibility. We have important values to take with us into the international community. It may be demanding at times, but we do not share the view of the Progress Party that we should be ourselves enough. We need in the international community, and we have an important and independent voice to raise matters and to have an important role to play. It has been shown in both peacemaking and mediation, but also in many other contexts. Norway is respected, whether they consider us small, resource-powerful or rich. Anyway, in Norway, we have a good example internationally. It is important to take care of and further develop. We must have confidence in the Storting that the government will administer foreign policy in our nation's best interests and accept the special rights of the government in this area. The Central Party does not want to change this, but will encourage the Foreign Minister to inform and involve Stortinget as far as it is advised in the important work for which she is responsible in the UN Security Council. Dialogue is always possible and always good. Then we would like to close the work for which she is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1044	In fact, we in SV think this is a very important debate. We think it is important that we use the storeroom to discuss how Norway should act in the Security Council, and also how the Stortinget should be involved in that debate – perhaps a little different from what the representative Tetzschner took up, who may have given the impression in his introduction that this was an untimely and a little unnecessary debate because we already had all these procedures in place. So it might be with some strange feeling inside me that I have to admit that I agree with the representative Christian Tybring-Gjede in very much of his argument. It is a bit unusual, but today it is also nice to be able to say – not everything, but most of what he said in this case. SV has consistently supported Norway's membership of the Security Council. We've thought that it's an important position to influence the world. It is an important position to influence significant values, i.e. the importance of a world controlled by the United Nations and a world governed by rules, and at best the Security Council can also be an arena for Norway to show important things in Norway. However, as we have said earlier from this pulpit, we have believed that if this is to work well, Norway must have independence and independence in the way in which it acts in the Security Council. We are now in a situation where Norway is in debt to the Security Council with major acts, and there are significant major interests and other interests that are also challenged in the Security Council dialogue. Ensuring independence and independence for Norway in the Security Council is crucial for those politicians who have supported Norway's membership in the Security Council. In particular, we're concerned about the relationship with the United States and the relationship with China. We want Norway to act in the Security Council regardless of what might serve Norwegian interests in the relationship with the United States and China, and that is demanding. In order to achieve this, we believe that we need to create institutions in Stortinget that ensure both transparency and clearer support for the government's work around the Security Council. We believe it is natural that there is a greater transparency about what Norway is doing in the Security Council, and how Norway also deals with the various dilemmas that arise, and the various conflicts of interest that may arise in the various negotiations in the Security Council. That is why, in this position, we have called for a mechanism for a more democratic anchoring of how Norway should act in the Security Council. We have called for a system where, in line with the European Committee, part of the information provided by the Security Council is undermined. So that doesn't mean a detailed management from the Storting of how the government is going to act in the Security Council. It doesn't mean to move power. That doesn't mean challenging the prerogatives that are grounded. That doesn't mean that. No, that means that we want to open up a broader discussion in Stortinget about what we're using the position in the Security Council, and it's also an invitation to the Storing to be able to give some guidance signals to the government, which we think are necessary in addition to what is established in today's arrangements. We believe that such a mechanism will support the government. There's not necessarily a way to control the government. We are going to give the government a back cover in dealing with the difficult issues they have to face in the Security Council. Then we'll be met with the counter-argument that this will break with the constitution agreement between government and big business. It is also claimed that current arrangements are sufficient. The enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence – DUUFK, as it is called – is both arbitrary and closed, and it does not open up public debate, which we believe is important. The same applies to the Stortinges questioning institute, which does not have the character that it is possible to open up this kind of discussion in a good way. We believe, as in the past, that it is actually the basis of Storting's Rules of Procedure today to make such an arrangement. Then, in addition – I'm going to use the last few seconds to say it – we also made a proposal that we need to have more transparency about so-called voice exchange agreements that Norway uses in the Security Council. There have been allegations that Norway has purchased votes to fit in with the Security Council. In order to protect the government from such accusations, we also want transparency, and that is our proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox With that, I'm submitting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1069	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1074	It shall have the following: they shall use their democratic right to produce Document 8 proposals. The setting in this case can be recommended as a reading. There is good training in the Rules of Procedure and in the understanding of roles between big business and government. That's what this case boils down to, and not that information, dialogue and transparency are not important. Let me start with the title ‘democratic anchoring of Norway’s work in the UN Security Council’. I would like to remind you that the government of Norway is a democratic body and part of democracy. Implicating that the decisions on the government's table are not democratic is strange, especially strange when they are run by a party that belongs to a communist tradition, an ideology that has never been known to be particularly democratic when it comes to the play. Enough about that. Parliamentaryism, with a government that must be based in the Grand Duchy, is itself a democratic anchor. Or as the majority expresses itself in the setting: ‘Parliamentary control, in the view of this majority, is not as the proposer refers to. It is carried out as a follow-up to completed official activities. The size is expressed by general decisions taken in advance, where the government has an implementing responsibility for the sectors concerned.’.» Norwegian democracy may not be without shortcomings, but I would argue that we have a very good practice and respect between the National Assembly and the Government that is always in place about an appropriate division of labour in foreign policy. The size has ample opportunity to express itself, both in the form of decisions and not decisions, on the current foreign policy agenda. We have well-functioning bodies, such as the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, and through presentations and concrete cases on the table. In other words, we have, of course, a good anchoring of foreign policy. Rather, we should spend time and energy on the routines and opportunities we already have. No Norwegian government in our time will be working on the Security Council, which is not in line with the position of the majority of the population. The Christian People's Party believes that the government is properly briefing the UK on foreign policy issues, whether there are issues raised through Norwegian participation in the UN Security Council, or there is other government work internationally. The wish to be specified in the form of decisions to want a separate statement is quite fine. But that's what the Foreign Minister has done and will probably do himself when necessary. Finally, I am pleased that we are living in a country with still a great deal of consensus and dialogue in foreign policy. It is a strength in our well-functioning democracy, and it is a necessity for a small country like Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1102	The democratic anchoring and transparency of the Security Council policy is important because the Security Council takes major and important decisions that are generally binding on international law for Norway, and also because anchoring and transparency will make Norway less vulnerable in an increasingly demanding world of contradictions, conflicts and cross-border interests. But it doesn't take the government enough seriously. It was not until mid-December, just under three weeks before Norway joined the Council, that the Minister of Foreign Affairs took the trouble to make a statement to the Stortinget. So she's had all the time since June – why so late? Well, perhaps because the minister sees no reason to involve the Norwegian people in that minister and diplomats in New York are now going to be involved in the coming period. That is why it is positive that today, with the Storting, we are going to have to put in place a system in which the government has to present important issues and areas of action for information and debate in the Storing in advance of the Security Council, and they have to do it in transparency so that the Norwegian people know what is going on, rather than swinging into the closed foreign and defence committee for, in reality, sandfights. I hope that the new scheme will give us a real and open debate on what kind of line Norway is going to take on in the Security Council. It is also important because we are at risk, as Red has warned against several times before, that Norway goes on the same smack as the last period in the Council, when Norway was in favour of a major act consensus and was loyal to the United States in one and the same way. With the U.S. loyalty shown by the current government in the security policy, there is reason to believe that Norway will do the same again, and it is no less problematic that the contradictions in the Security Council and the training of major powers have increased considerably since 2002. After listening to the Minister's presentation before Christmas, I was not less concerned about how this elite diplomacy project is going to go. That's why it's unfortunate, we think, that today we're not getting the bulk of the population to introduce a political total account of the agreements Norway has made with dubious regimes around the world, to get a place at the table of the powerful. The Minister has many times, and lastly at the presentation of the Security Council before Christmas, boasted of Norway's openness and financial costs, but it is a game for the gallery as long as the Minister does not say anything about the political costs incurred by the Minister and the diplomatic corps to get this place in the Security Council. In response to this, the Minister and the consensus parties of the Right and the Workers' Party talk a lot about diplomatic practices. It's probably some diplomatic custom that could need a critical look, but perhaps most importantly: we can't leave politics to a crazy top diplomat in New York without knowing what obligations they've made with other countries on our behalf. It is therefore important and very good that the National Audit Office is now reviewing the Ministry's support for the IPI and UN Ambassador Mona Juul's spouse, Terje Rød-Larsen. But the image of this political elite's scalding and election with the community's resources will not be complete until we also know what political horsemen they've made to secure a place in the council, and when they're going to represent Norway in New York for the next two years. How can we be absolutely sure that diplomats like them make decisions that are in Norway's interests after decades of making decisions that have benefited them first and foremost? It cannot be entirely safe for the Storting to vote on today's proposal for more transparency in the field and the introduction of a total political account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1116	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1121	Yes, I take up the proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1126	Then the representative Björn Moxnes has taken up the proposal from Red.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1131	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to have a discussion on this side of the new year on the Security Council. I think the case rapporteur has been very well informed about both the principle and the constitutional. I think many others in the room have done that too. I share, as you know, the view of the Committee that good anchoring of Norwegian foreign policy in Stortinget is important. I am very pleased with the long-standing and established practice that it is, and that the government is briefing the Government on important foreign policy issues. That is also why I took the initiative of the Stortinget to make a statement before we joined the Security Council. The date of December 8 was the date we got from Stortinget on a hectic harvest with many things and also pandemic. I'm glad I got the opportunity to explain before we went into the council. I presented the main priorities, the dilemmas and the opportunities we have, but of course also some of the challenges we are going to face, like other members of the Council. I am therefore also very pleased that the Storting wants several of those kinds of explanations, as well as what we can have of discussions in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. In that case, it is not a question of ‘voting within the closed Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence’, as the representative of Mr Moxnes talks about. It's about a body where the Storting can get information that can't be given otherwise, because very many of the issues on the Council's agenda are sensitive and classified. This is, after all, about relations in other countries. I am also pleased that a majority of the Committee so clearly believes that the control of the Grand Duchy's government will follow the incorporated division of functions, and I think it is well explained how this works in practice. I would like to take this opportunity to give a little update on something that was not clear when I explained in December. It is linked to the work undertaken by Norway in the Council. We are now chairing the Sanctions Committee of North Korea and the Sanctions Committee of ISIL and Al Qaida. Both parts are heavy, important sanctions committees, they are demanding, and it is also important to keep a good pressure on the work. At the same time, we lead the Working Group on Children and Armed Conflict, which is also a heavy and demanding committee. We're the pen leader, i.e. is responsible for, for example: preparing draft resolutions, convening urgent meetings, etc., in the work of the Council with Afghanistan, together with Estonia, and the humanitarian situation in Syria, together with Ireland. Of course, we are also in close contact with both of these related to the work on these matters. We also have with Ireland a work for climate and security, where in 2022, that is, the last year of the period, we will lead an informal working group on it. I also think it is important to be aware of, when discussing how to have a good dialogue with the Swedish Security Council, that the pace in the Security Council is extremely high. There are on average two meetings a day, and we also have a time difference to New York that makes it sometimes demanding. Instructions are both cleared and guided at a high rate. It brings me to a point that Moxnes' representative had. He talks about an elite diplomacy project and that Norwegian diplomats scald and electors with Norwegian interests. It's a characteristic I take a great distance from. I would also like to stress that the fact that we are handling political leadership instructions, that we have clear leadership for our work in the Security Council, is the democratic anchoring. Norwegian diplomats do not operate on their own, they operate on instructions from the department. If the representative Moxnes disagrees with the Norwegian diplomat, the Norwegian government is responsible for it, not Norwegian diplomats. I understand that the representative Moxnes usually wants to construct words and concepts that he sees as working well in a tabloid everyday life, but on behalf of competent, competent, dedicated and good Norwegian diplomats, who every day take care of Norwegian interests for us outside, I have to say that those characteristics I am getting quite tired of hearing, and I hope that the representative Moxnes can get to a slightly different level of debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1146	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1151	It is a little to the extreme of the realities of this matter, but it is necessary to hear the voice and opinion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs about this remark made by the parties to the Government on the powers of the Government under the Constitution, because it has created a certain discussion. Now the representative Tetzschner said in his post that he does not think there is any particular reason to discuss it in more detail, but it is clear that the government parties have written this remark. Then there is a specific question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with the comments made by the parties to the Government regarding the powers conferred on the Government under the Basic Law §25 and 26 and does it understand that there are similar powers in defence policy and foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1158	I don't think I'm going to move into interpreting what the committee has meant in its comments, but I'm assuming that the system we have today, which we've had, and which is a consequence of the functional distribution that's in the Constitution, is that it's not the Storting that decides, for example. participation in military operations, that is the government following consultation with the Stortinget. I assume that that is still the case, and that there is also a prorogative, but at the same time in such a way that the Storting there is clearly consulted, and that the government would of course not go in to engage in military operations that the Storting was against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1163	There is no disagreement in what the Foreign Minister is now saying, but as that remark is formulated, it is much broader about defence policy. That's what we want a constraint on. It'll be of great interest to the Storting that we put that ball dead right away, so we don't have to continue this discussion here in the main hall, because that's a completely unnecessary thing. There's really a broad consensus on this. The Foreign Minister understands very well what I am asking about, so I think it is a little important that she responds precisely to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1170	I answered exactly the question. I'm not going to try to interpret what members of the committee have meant in their letters, but I'd like to tell you how the prerogatives seem to work today. I suppose that is what the Committee has also made in its comments. Then I see that the representative Tetzschner has asked for the word after me, so he can probably elaborate on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1175	It's almost unnecessary to drive and cross this out, because I hear that the Foreign Minister is trying to get a little bit away from it, because it's probably a little uncomfortable given that she has the government parties inside such a note. I believe that the Foreign Minister and I fully agree with the understanding of this. I repeat that it would be nice if the Minister for Foreign Affairs said so – although it was a little unpleasant for her to say so in this situation, how specifically the representative Tetzschner has agreed to write a note in this context that I do not understand why is in this position at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1182	For the third time, I would like to repeat that I am not going to start interpreting what the representatives have meant in their comments. I do not interpret what the Workers' Party has meant in theirs, or what others have meant in theirs. I've just assumed that the arrangement and the functional distribution we have today is the underlying one. I would also say that the prerogative applies in both of these areas, but then in such a way that the Stortinget is consulted if you, for example. shall be involved in military operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1188	I want to ask a question that is a little on the edge of the matter itself. I have also mentioned from the Chair in the past that Norway can get into many completely unnecessary conflicts because of our place in the Security Council, which we have visited on our own. Recently, there has been a discussion also in Norwegian media about China’s treatment of the uighurs. The U.S. Secretary of State called it a genocide, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was asked if they agreed to this. They mumbled something a little cryptic, at least they didn't say they agreed to this. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the type of uncertainty in real potential conflicts in which Norway has volunteered is unfortunate for Norway, or does she think it is entirely right that we get these challenges? They're connected to China this time, but it could be the northern regions or Russia next time. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think this is something we can deal with, and that it is a sensible way to pursue foreign policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1195	The answer to the question we gave to the evening post has nothing to do with our place in the Security Council. It has to do with a clear Norwegian and long-term principal attitude to the definition of genocide, that there are not politicians who decide it, but that it is the ICC that decides it. That was also the reason for the answer. There was no uncertainty about it; on the contrary, there was a clear principleal justification. Nor was anything mumbled cryptically, it is a position Norway has had and has. Then it is quite right that the representative Tybring-Gjedde says: there are many situations both inside and outside the Security Council that in today's major activisation are demanding for many countries, including Norway. It has nothing to do with the Security Council. It has to do with geopolitical developments, and it's a development and many dilemmas that we're used to dealing with. It has, among other things, with our geographic location. We've been doing this for a lot of years. We have a good relationship with all five permanent members of the Security Council, and these are relations we use to promote Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1202	I hear the Foreign Minister say this about definition, but I guess the United States also relates to this, so then suddenly the United States has a different interpretation of this. Is it so that the United States, of course, as a major power, has the ability to define things a little bit on its own? You can be as principle as you want, but when the United States has a different definition, that is, Norway uses a different definition of this, and that itself is unclear. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that you can have different views about foreign policy and how you deal with conflicts, regardless of whether you are in the Security Council. Of course you can, but it will be an extrovert diplomacy instead of a silent diplomacy. You don't sit in the Security Council to mumble. You sit in the Security Council to have a meaning. And one has an opinion among the five permanent members that can be challenging to, for example. Russia, the United States or China, is often contradictory to Norway as a small country dependent on a good relationship with all three. Of course, this is difficult, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will see that this cannot be in Norway's interest in some cases, and that we have visited something we should not be part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1209	Our criticism of what's happening in Xinjiang, and what's happening in Hong Kong, is completely unambiguous, and it's also well known to the representative Tybring-Gedde. It's precisely because we support the multilateral system and international law that we also leave the definitions to those who are going to make the definitions. Other countries have different perceptions of it, but that's our fundamental point of view, and we're on that right when others think otherwise. What is a bit of irony in Tybring-Gjedde's posts is that on the one hand he thinks we should be independent of everyone, but on the other hand we should not mean anything else. It's not entirely related. It is also ironic to note that the representative Tybring-Gjedde, who says that we are now part of something we should never have been part of, namely the Security Council, believes that we should not be there, at the same time we are concerned that we should have a separate body in Stortinget that will handle what Norway is doing in the body of the Progress Party, we do not think we should be part of. To me, it's a contradiction, if that's what he's first looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1216	Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Committee refer to diplomatic practice when they do not want transparency about what we promised when we entered into these voting arrangements. Of the 70 countries in Norway, 23 have visited the campaign to get this seat in the Security Council, ranked authoritarian states in The Economists' democracy index for 2019. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any problems or challenges with this secret and this diplomatic practice? Can this be e.g. so doubt the balance of the accounts? So what have we promised these authoritarian regimes in terms of promoting their affairs, or what are these agreements now? There are very few people in this room who know anything about it. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that there may be some sides here that are not unproblematic?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1221	As part of our campaign, of course, we wanted to talk to all the other 192 member states of the United Nations. It's natural. There are many of the countries that are authoritarian even though they are in the United Nations. There are many of the countries with which we have deep conflicts of interest, and with which we deeply disagree on absolutely essential issues. This could be done, for example, by: be related to human rights. But Norway’s attitude has never been that we should not talk to countries, and of course we did so with these countries as well. Then there are some of the countries, 132, that agreed with Norway’s campaign and Norwegian foreign policy – which were both transparent, recognizable and have been led by alternating governments here – and that liked it. There were people who didn't like it, and of course they're free to do that. Voice swaps are a very common part of diplomatic activities. There's nothing suspicious about it, there's a way to do diplomatic business, and we haven't, of course, promised anything to dictatorships that would go across our values or interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1230	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1237	I don't know if it's a conclusion that you're being sidetracked by the Workers' Party, because you're essentially in the middle of it, that we're not moving the guidelines, as we're used to it, and that we're not interfering with the government's prerogatives, but that the Storting within its areas of competence, of course, is exercising that control and also the political ongoing discussion we need on foreign policy issues. Then, completely out of proportion to something that the matter and its conclusion do not apply, my excellent committee chairman has agreed that such a joint seminar as is seen here should not be based on the Rules of Procedure, and there is evidence that we can still set up ad hoc committees under Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure. However, it is in cases where configurations are to be made to the Storting, and it has to be read in conjunction with complex cases that are so large that they affect several ordinary professional committees. That's when it's appropriate. Reference is also made to the example of the 22nd July Committee and others, for example: The Corona Committee. But that's because there's going to be settings for Size. It is part of the Storting's internal and constitutional working system. What is proposed here is that if you do not support it in the Rules of Procedure, you will have a seminar running. It's not right that they don't give advice. Although it does not appear in the decision, the justification will have a certain meaning. So if the representative Eide had read the justification from the proposer, he would see that it was the intention. Nor is it correct, as Red's representative says, that Stortinget met him on some points. No – he has received the Progress Party and SV on a few of the proposals, which otherwise violates the governance we have outlined here. What comes out of it is that the Foreign Minister makes an extra statement with emphasis on the Security Council. I must also say, as far as the second reference is concerned, that we are moving power from the Storting to the Government by this very obvious reference to the governance we already have in defence policy: that is only the one to which it is referred. It is undisputed, I understand, that the government has prerogatives in the foreign field, but it also has them in the field of defence policy and security policy. I remember that the basic policy was a unilateral statement by the government of Gerhardsen, and that the first detention we got when it came to arms exports was also a government decision. This does not mean that defence policy is out of this room, but that the government has considerable powers in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1248	The UN is in a special position among intergovernmental organisations and is also the very foundation of international cooperation, and the Security Council is the only body responsible for international peace and security with a mandate to take binding decisions under international law. If we look at the world today, there's a lot of serious events around us where we have to as a nation to show our commitment. We have Belarus, with a repressed opposition, in Russia, the opposition leader Navalnyy has been tried and stopped by political use of the judiciary, and in Myanmar there has just been a military coup. It is understandable, on this basis, that the Red's representative wants to take the utmost part in Norway's international work, but it is important to clarify that foreign policy, including our work in a body such as the UN Security Council, falls under what we call the government's prerogative, or privilege, if you like. The prerogative of the Government in the field of foreign policy is governed by the Basic Law, § 26. If the proposal were to be adopted, it would mean a marked and unfortunate breach of the state-style and traditional constitutional interpretation that we agree with today. There is no reason for a clear majority to do so as a result of Norway’s work in the Security Council. The democratic anchoring called for by the proposer is precisely in the fact that the Storting can hold the government responsible for its foreign policy. The comparison with the Storting European Committee is not particularly relevant, although the proposer seems to think so. Decisions and resolutions of the UN Security Council are largely not the subject of subsequent legislation in the Norwegian National Assembly. It is therefore quite different from the implementation of EU legal acts through the EEA process. I have a large majority on Stortinget with me as I look forward to Norway's further work in the Security Council during this period. I also assume that the government will continue to inform the Government of foreign policy issues in an appropriate manner, where necessary. Finally, at the request of the proposal for an overall accounting for the Norwegian Security Council candidate: I dare remind you that it is possible to read documents. The work on the campaign for Norway’s candidacy was carried out through regular diplomatic activities and a detailed overview of all the costs involved has been published on the government’s website. I look forward to Norway's participation in the UN Security Council. We've started. I am confident that Norway's representation in this body will also be managed in line with Norwegian values and interests, and that the Stortinget is well and appropriately integrated in the proceedings where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1267	First of all, I just want to say that I am excited that we have made room in the Security Council, and support the intentions behind it in every way. It is therefore very nice and good that what is essential in this matter, and that we must not lose sight of now, is that there is a broad consensus in the Storting on the relationship between government and corruption in this way. It's important to say. Then there's this rather subtle discussion about the understanding of this remark that the government parties have presented, and that I throughout the committee reading, and also here today, don't fully understand why has come in here, because as it says, it can be misunderstood or misinterpreted. It is in the wording, as it appears, that defence policy is generally equated with foreign policy, which is in fact contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law, and also with what has been the practice and practice throughout all years. Then I notice that the Foreign Minister, in the change of lines with me here instead – to use a little unparliamentary expression – is dragging the water in order to escape an interpretation. It would be good if the Minister of Foreign Affairs could interpret a comment when it comes from her own government parties, but she refrains from it. I choose to interpret it in the direction that she prefers to let go, because she understands that what is the objection to the remark, as it lies, is not pleasant, and that we are right at this point. Then the representative Tetzschner said in his post that this is a completely natural thing to say. No, we have to show that it's not. It's not quite a natural thing to say, as it says now, because here, in general, defence policy is equated with foreign policy. That's exactly this point of intersection there's disagreement about, and as I think it's necessary for the Storting to make a mark of – that we maintain what has been practice and understanding throughout all years at this point. It's like... The representative Tetzschner mentions arms exports as foreign policy. It belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. No one has protested about it. Nor has anyone objected to what the Foreign Minister said in the reply that they have the right to go to military operations. It has not been said a word about it, but one cannot have defence policy in general into such an understanding. It is a little regrettable – if we are to take this very solemnly – that the government representatives will not participate in the marking, as the representative of Navarsete did. She cleaned it up right away, so the others won't. It's a little regrettable – it would have served the case if they had done it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1280	I had probably hoped that we would get some thoughts from the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the evaluation of the criticism as, among other things, Stein Tønsson has noted that Norway has remained too close in the United States during the last period, and that the contradictions in the Security Council and the training of major powers have increased considerably since 2002. I would like to challenge her to get some reflections around it, and that the concern is growing among more and more people in Norway over this United States loyal government we see on many issues in the security policy, and that people are unsure whether it is especially wise to go so close to the United States also in the Security Council. It is good to note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that my use of language is inappropriate. When I'm talking about Norwegian elite diplomats, it's because they're elite diplomats, and they choose with our interests. We need to be able to take that into account in the Storting as a controlling body, take a risk of, all the time we don't know the content of these voting arrangements. Nor will we be able to see what is promised in those agreements. I also think about the recent revelations of, among other things. the top diplomat Terje Rød-Larsen's doer and loader and also Norwegian appropriations for the IPI, the International Peace Institute. The fact that the National Audit Office is investigating this may be grounds for not implicitly trusting that they are always doing what is in Norwegian interest at all, but may even have other interests in mind. This is what the Riksrevision Review will give us more answers, and we should perhaps respond to that. So Tetzschner said that I should not appreciate the fact that the Storting is behind the proposal for a separate statement on key matters in the Security Council, but he also paid attention to an additional statement. The recommendation states that ‘central issues which have been and can be expected to be dealt with’ should be explained at the time Norway is a member of the Security Council, and then clearly included in the permanent statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom. In other words, it would be natural to explain more than once, as often as the situation and matters at the Security Council’s table require. Perhaps the Foreign Minister can confirm that this is likely to be a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1292	We need to round off the not-for-see debate on what the comment on our part meant, because it is a reference to the governance system that is, not an attempt to change it. That is also why it says – and I have to quote from the comment, since it has been so central to some and almost disrupted the good mood – that ‘in the field of foreign and defence, the prerogatives of the government are particularly strong, both because rapid decisions have to be made and because it is the executive that represents Norway externally’. This is precisely in view of the importance of the government’s ability to act on the powers contained in the general guidance documents from Stortinget, which are fully transparent, and on which we – in all modesty – spend quite a lot of time here in Stortinget. In most questions, the government will not be in the slightest doubt about what the great majority of adults think in matters, even at a very detailed level, because these are matters we still have in ongoing discussion, whether we have explanations about it or not. In that case, with this reference to the prerogatives in the field of foreign and defence policy, I have made it clear that the external limits of the government's powers should be the same, so there is nothing to say about it. They're partly different. They can be quite large in terms of the government’s ability to engage Norwegian troops abroad, for example. That is probably why the representative Huitfeldt wants to change the Constitution, precisely because she feels that the government's prerogatives in this area are too strong. It is a discussion that is entirely in order to take, but it belongs in a constitutional debate, not in a general suspicion of a comment that merely intends to refer to the working arrangements we have, as an argument against introducing an ad hoc committee that is claimed to be set up outside Section 18. I understand that this selection should be recorded, but not for Stortinget, they should not shape any attitude towards Stortinget, which is otherwise the purpose of § 18. If one imagines that this joint body, this seminar, can relieve foreign policy, it must at least be enshrined in the Rules of Procedure, otherwise it will be suspended. It is contrary to the Constitution, and it is an innovation that I think those who have been critical of our very natural observation should think through.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1301	I would like to speak on two points. One is what is being said about Norwegian diplomats. The reason why I, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, react so strongly to those descriptions is that it's part of such an elite conspiracy theory that we see in a lot of countries. When it is brought in as part of Norwegian foreign policy in the way it is done by the representative from Red here today, it is clear that I react very much to it. I also do not agree that we always go after the United States – as such a headline. When we last sat in the Security Council, we headed the Committee on Penalties against Iraq. Then there was the question of whether we should participate in a military operation with the United States. No, that's what Norway said. I believe that Norway is a very important player in global, international policy, taking its own positions, whether we agree or disagree with the major acts. The importance of participating in international organisations is even greater now when we see an increasing number of major activisations and major acts that are increasingly taking place, at the expense of international law. Then I have to say that I disagree enough when the Foreign Minister says that she will not agree to interpret comments, because that is what any government council must do – interpret comments from Stortinget. As I read it now, it is not the majority of the comment that the representative Tetzschner has defended here today. I believe that the representative Tetzschner, who is usually quite precise, needs to try something new for once, and that is to admit that he has been wrong here. Foreign policy and defence policy cannot be equated. This prerogative applies in foreign policy, including in the case of foreign operations and arms exports, which are also associated with and within the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But, according to the Constitution, defence policy must be defined here. Then it would have been in place if he might have admitted that mistake, as the representative Liv Signe Navarsete did. We don't deserve that kind of discussion. We need to be clear on how the responsibility between the government and the Stortinge is. There is an ongoing discussion in very many other matters as well: What is on the government's table, what is on the Stortings table? There's a continuous discussion about the Korona as well. That is why I find it strange that not the representative Tetzschner can simply say that in defence policy the government does not have a prerogative. In foreign policy, on the other hand, it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1312	If we are first in the process, then the government has many prorogatives in addition to foreign policy. They have implementing prerogatives. They're the top pyramid in our administration system. It is those who take administrative decisions. I think that those who now, quite unreasonablely, base their own misunderstandings and ask others to clarify their own misunderstandings, should be interested in the fact that the Stortinge has come forward with proposals for representatives which, in essence, are designed to reject applications for consideration by our administrative authorities. They should think it through, because it's really corrupting the system, so eat it up from the inside, by not respecting the established governance and function distribution we have between collapse and government. It is as if I am not believed when, despite the very unwilling and highly imaginative interpretation of the representatives of Kolberg and Huitfeldt – they were also later able to lure the representative of Navarsete – I go up and state that it is a reference to the constitution we have, and no ambush to change constitutional areas of competence by a remark. It is very nice that you are listened to when you write comments, but for the time being they are probably a little further down in view of their normative power in constitutional matters than the Rules of Procedure of the Storting or the Constitution itself does. I think we can park that discussion there -- also because in the same section, if you wanted to read on, it's a reference that the Storting, within its constitutional competence, can make the decisions they want. They can even meet them in such detail that they can be blamed for big business, and that should not be done. However, there is just a reference to the fact that the Storting either takes decisions or has general policy decisions that the government interprets and brings to life, and that they must be given the opportunity to make also for time. If you're able to read what's in between, you see that's where we're not going to have an adviser's role, because then it becomes unclear, because advice can be heard or not listened to. Rather, the size should spend time discussing policies and taking decisions, which oblige the government to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1321	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1326	The term "elite" is not a conspiracy; it is a concept that describes a part of our society. It is regularly used in social sciences to describe elites in both politics, diplomacy and other social sectors. It's a fact that there are some elite diplomats, also in New York. Among other things, we have knowledge of Terje Red-Larsen and Mona Juul. There's also often some elite circulation between different elites. There's no conspiracy either. It is a fact that Mona Juul took part in the Nicolai Tangen's "Back to University" event, on behalf of taxpayers, a few years ago. It is also a fact that there have been serious disclosures regarding IPI's use of money, for which Terje Red-Larsen was the leader. They received about 116 million. kr from the U.S. during his term of office. He picked up $45 million. kr during the same period. It calls for strong concepts – much more than Red's analytical concepts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1331	Now, in his last post, Michael Tetzschner said that I and others who have had comments on the comments of the government parties have misunderstood. That's fine, because then we've misunderstood. This means that there is agreement on the understanding of Sections 25 and 26 of the Basic Law and the established practice we have in this area. Then I am happy to say that we can conclude that there is agreement in this Chamber on this, and that this is not a matter, as it has been in the vote and in the committee's proceedings, because this has not been an undisputed issue. That is why it was necessary to present it in this Chamber, and I would make it clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But then this case is dead. There is a broad consensus in the Storting on the understanding of these provisions as they exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1336	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox The store is now taking a break in the negotiations to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1351	The vote will be taken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 44 from Tuesday 2 February, which is case
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1363	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 2-9, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 11, from Kårstein Eidem Løvaas on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian Party proposal No 12, from Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 13–16, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 17, from Morten Ørsal Johansen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 18, from Geir Pollestad on behalf of the Center Party the proposals No 19–21, from Torgair Knag County, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 11 were drawn. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19 and 20, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to break down the wholesale, distribution and retail stages of Norwegian retail trade in order to ensure competition within each segment and, if necessary, to return to Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government requests the establishment of a digital sales data register for goods traded on the grocery market and to ensure access for all producers and suppliers.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1419	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the Government to present to the Storting a case concerning the amendment of the Working Environment Act which clarifies the responsibilities of employers in franchises, groups and similar organisations. The proposal shall ensure that the person who has a dominant influence, and through this is actually the employer, also receives rights and obligations as an employer under the Employment Environment Act.» The Central Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1436	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for outdated models to limit the differences in purchasing prices in the daily food industry.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1453	There is a vote on proposal No. 17 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the repeal of the alcohol regulation §3-4, which prohibits kiosks and service stations from applying for a marketing authorisation in the same way as the food industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1469	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a ban on its own brands in the food industry and to come back in an appropriate manner in the context of the revised national budget 2021.’ [[EMV]] The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1486	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13, 15 and 16, of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for various models to make distribution and chains less integrated in the daily food industry.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify and propose measures limiting cross-subsidies between independent brands and its own brands in the food industry.’ [[EMV]] Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to prohibit discrimination between its own and independent brands in such a way that independent brands are less favourable to competition in the food industry and to return to Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1515	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The Government is asked to make clear to the Competition Authority that the overall purchasing conditions of the food chain are to be the same, unless suppliers can demonstrate cost differences in production or distribution against the individual chain.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1532	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. ‘The government is ordered to authorise the day-to-day monitoring of the logistics area and the use of its own brands in the food market.’ [[EMV]] The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1549	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-9 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide its own information on the food industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for measures to be taken by the government to ensure competition and more transparency at wholesale and retail level, including the monitoring of the price calculations for distribution services.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to limit the spread of its own brands [[EMV]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a notification obligation to the Competition Authority when purchasing or renting production capacity at the supply level of the daily goods industry.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to identify the lack of enforcement of intellectual property rights and return to Stortinget with proposals for measures that more effectively protect producers’ ownership of their own brands, product development and innovation activities in relation to their own brands.’;» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that day-to-day monitoring cooperates with the industry on a common labelling system that better distinguishes the chain’s own brands from the independent brands.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the notification of the identification of the scope of exclusive distribution agreements between food groups and manufacturers, to also identify the use and pricing of its own brands in comparison with the corresponding prices for branded products from industry. [[EMV]] Requirements for justification from the wholesale trade are introduced if large differences in margin mark-ups are identified.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for different models in order to take account of competition in the daily food industry in terms of rental conditions related to both existing premises and new buildings.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1604	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Socialist Left Party. ‘The Government is asked to clarify to the Competition Authority that supervision in its work must take into account that suppliers with a dominant position have a particular responsibility to demonstrate that differences in purchasing conditions are factually justified and do not prejudice competition. It must be taken into account that differences in the purchase price of dominant suppliers, which do not have a factual justification through differences in the chain of production or distribution costs, or differences in the value of concrete counterparts, damage competition between chains. It should be communicated to the various operators in the industry, both at the supplier and at the chain, that although the burden of proof lies on the suppliers, the chains are equally responsible for complying with the legislation.’ The right, the left, the Christian People's Party, the Greens and the Reds have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1615	The centre party must also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1620	The centre party must also support the proposal, and then we are, I suppose, unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1682	It's written first over II and VI. The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1696	It shall then be added to I, III, IV, V, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1706	So it's going to add up to IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1716	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e1728	In the course of the debate, Kirsti Leirtrø has put forward 73 proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Wiesen is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The road transport station of the State in Ørsta is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State at Elverum is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Kongsberg is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Rjukan is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Seatsdal/Evje is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Egersund is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Saudi shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before being reorganised, including an ambulance for driving licences of categories C, CE and D of Saudi Arabia.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The main road transport station of the Member State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Oppdal Road Service Traffic Station of the Member State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Røros is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State in Arendal is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Flekkefjord is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Kristiansand is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Mandal is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State of Hamar is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The traffic station of the Member State road service at Otta is maintained with the functions and the traffic station had before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Fenernes is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: «The road transport station of the State of Kongsvinger shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Tynset shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Gjøvik is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Lillehammer shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State in Molde is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Kristiansund is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The traffic station of the State of Ålesund is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State on Sunndalsøra is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Bodø is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Leknes road transport station of the Member State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Narvik is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Svolvær is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The road transport station of the State in Brønnøysund is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Mo i Rana is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in the Sandness Sea is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Fauske shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The traffic station of the State of the Mosque road service is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: «The traffic station of the State road service in Blackland is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Risløkka in Oslo is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: «The traffic station of the State road services in Stavanger is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 39 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Haugesund is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State in Alta is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the State of Hammerfest is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The traffic station in Storslett of the State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State in Vadsø is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: «The Finnish road transport station of the State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 45 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Harstad shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 46 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Lakselv shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The traffic station of the State road service in the Churches is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 48 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Tromsø is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 49 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Brekstad is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 50 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Steinkjer is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 51 sounds: «The traffic station of the Member State road service in Levanger is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The Orkdal Road Service Traffic Station of the Member State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Stjørdal is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: «The station of the road transport service of the State of Namsos is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 55 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Trondheim is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 56 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Larvik is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: «The Notodden road transport station of the State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 58 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in the Ski is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 59 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Tønsberg is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 60 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State on Nordfjordeid is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 61 sounds: «The Odda Road Service Traffic Station of the State is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 62 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Voss is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 63 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of the road service in Førde is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 64 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Sogndal is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 65 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Billingstad is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 66 sounds: «The road transport station of the State of Gol is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State at Jessheim is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: «The traffic station of the State of the road service in Drammen is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 69 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State of Hafslund shall be maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 70 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Drøbak is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The road transport station of the Member State on Hønefoss is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Lillestrøm is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» Proposal No. 73 sounds: «The road transport station of the Member State in Bergen is maintained with the functions and services of the traffic station before the ongoing reorganisation.» An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2144	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Ketil Kjenseth on behalf of the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Green Party proposal No 2, from Terje Halleland on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sections 4 to 7 are replaced by the following: Paragraphs 4 to 7. Persons in the management of network undertakings may not participate in the management of undertakings engaged in other activities within the integrated undertaking. [[Requirements for functional separation]] Parent or controlling owner of the integrated undertaking shall not give instructions to network undertakings on the day-to-day operation or on decisions relating to the development or upgrade of the network. This does not preclude overall governance under the financial framework of the network undertaking. The Ministry may grant exemptions from all or part of the functional separation requirement. The Ministry may prescribe functional separation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2223	An alternative is to vote between II and proposal No 1, from the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I In Law No 29 June 1990 No. 50 on the production, transformation, transmission, turnover, distribution and use of energy, etc. Paragraph 4-1, second paragraph, point (b) is deleted; 10th@item: inlistbox II In Law 27 May 2016, No. 18 amending the Energy Act is amended as follows: Paragraphs 4 to 7 are replaced by the Paragraphs 4 to 7. Persons in the management of network undertakings may not participate in the management of undertakings engaged in other activities within the integrated undertaking. [[Requirements for functional separation]] Parent or controlling owner of the integrated undertaking shall not give instructions to network undertakings on the day-to-day operation or on decisions relating to the development or upgrade of the network. This does not preclude overall governance under the financial framework of the network undertaking. The requirements set out in the first and second subparagraphs shall not apply to network undertakings with 10000 or fewer network customers. The Ministry may grant exemptions from all or part of the functional separation requirement. The Ministry may provide for functional separation. III Part I applies from the time the King decides. Part II shall enter into force immediately’. The Progress Party has announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2271	As a result of the previous vote, voting on I and III is lost. It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2284	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size goes to voting on the matters 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2298	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote the covid-19 regulation on quarantine hotels as a legislative proposal, in order to enable the Stortinge to take a decision on these provisions in line with the requirements of the Code on Disease Protection and the Emergency Act.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2341	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2353	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2368	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2382	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Masud Gharakhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2 and 3, from Masud Gharahkhani on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 4, from Wilfred Nordlund on behalf of the Centerpartiet the proposals No 5 and 6, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the allocation of resources to state agencies and the local government sector to be earmarked for innovation’.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the annual budgeting both in the State sector and in the local economy to finance the innovation process and to make it visible how this has been calculated.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2421	There is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need to make the necessary changes to the management regulation in order to reduce costs for the deployment of fibre networks.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2438	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a national solution for public enterprises.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to close the so-called ABE reform.’ The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2460	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for solutions to be found with a lesser extent of statutory tasks, manning standards, regulatory and rights fixing, state objectives and objections in order to facilitate greater municipal autonomy with a greater degree of innovation.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2527	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2539	Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2586	The cancellation then goes back to the handling of the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2602	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2609	The Justice Committee is presenting today a case concerning the extension of the so-called Roma Statutes. The case is based on a proposal from Red on the connection to what is called the Kampala plug-in, and I'm going to brief you a little bit about what this is. First, I would like to say that the matter has been referred to the Justice Committee for consideration, but I would like to point out that it could perhaps have been dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it is also the Foreign Minister who is sitting in the Chamber to explain the government's views on this. It may also be a little strange because the Justice Committee is not normally dealing with questions of international law, of which this is actually part. The Rome Statutes are the body of international law underpinning the International Criminal Court. Norway joined this as early as 2000. There are 123 countries that are involved, while countries like the United States, Israel, Russia, China, India, etc. is not a member of the International Criminal Court and has not ratified the Basic Roma Statutes. The Rome Statutes, which form the basis of the Criminal Court, the ICC, also make it possible to prosecute war criminals across borders. So if you're a war criminal in a country, you shouldn't have any place to hide, because the International Criminal Court should be able to extend the law's long arm and take one. But this will only apply to countries that have ratified the Rome Statutes. In countries that have not ratified, criminal prosecution will not be possible without an additional mechanism implemented by the Security Council. This is a little bit complicated, but this is the arrangement. Norway has been very active in the creation of this from the very beginning, and I think the Storting appreciates that very much. This Kampala supplement, which we are going to discuss today, will allow the International Criminal Court not only to prosecute war criminals but also to prosecute states if they have committed an illegal assault war. That is not the right of the criminal court to do so now. The aim of this is to provide maximum legal protection against war of aggression and to ensure a stronger inter-country agreement and a clearer international right to protection against war of aggression. There are today very many NATO countries that have ratified this Kampala supplement, but not, for example. The United States, the United Kingdom and France — of course not the United States, because they are not in the Rome Statutes initially, nor can they ratify a supplement. The case has been under consultation, and there is great support in the international law environment in Norway, and also internationally, about this. The International Commission on Legal Affairs and the International Criminal Court supports this. It is Red that has submitted the proposal to the Stortinget, but it is only SV that have supported it today. The government parties, together with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Advancement Party, are leaning here on answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who raise some legal issues and definitions and some issues about the unfortunate consequences of this. It is from a point of view of the rapporteur that I am now briefing on this. Then I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee, to the extent that we have had some special cooperation on this – we have not really had that, to put it correctly. We have made our considerations in writing, but the matter has not been to any particular discussion, either in the committee or outside. It is nevertheless nice that we have now got the matter on the Stortinges table. I'm going to give myself this now, and then I'm going to draw again afterwards to argue why SV believes it is necessary that we join this Kampala plugin.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2628	Should the representative address the SV's proposal in the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2633	Yes. I would do that in the next article, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2638	The representative Petter Eide then took up the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2643	Norway and a number of other democratic states have so far chosen to await the appropriate action against war and against all that the war implies, in this field to include aggression as an independent criminal law theme in the Rome Statutes – this because it raises legal and political issues and also has potential adverse consequences for the court of the world to judge international war criminals, the ICC. We want to have a line that just underlines the ICC's authority. Firstly, it is difficult to provide a sufficiently precise definition of what is to be prosecuted on its own basis. It raises difficulties in terms of predictability and clarity requirements, which are, in fact, a requirement to comply with the principle of legality in criminal law. Furthermore, concerns are linked to the distribution of powers and the interaction between the Court and the Security Council, because the latter has the overall responsibility for maintaining international peace and security under the UN Charter and is therefore also able to determine whether there is a situation of aggression. Claims about who starts require a phased response on complex causalities related to prior escalation and have been specifically the subject of the parties’ claims and respective propaganda in the historical context. This is what opens up initially politically motivated state prosecutors, which can contribute to politicising the work of the courts. It also complicates the fact that recent examples of international law-enforcement from one state to another show that aggression takes place at several stages before the actual acts of war. From the past, threats are known, staged provocations, which today are reinforced by hybrid means of combat, where the war was never declared, but finally manifest themselves as ultimate use of power by the fact that military units under the command of the warring, aggressive party finally take control of the territory of another country. The attacks will begin in our time in the cyber domain in order finally to be realized by control of the air, sea and land domain. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine with military innovation in Crimea and a de facto occupation of eastern Ukraine are examples of such a course. Russia's practice of establishing an apparent state-independent force, the so-called Wagner Group, accused of blatant violation of war's laws, also complicates the image. This is considered to be an attempt to avoid the international obligations and the minimum sense a State must, after all, have in order not to harm all its intergovernmental relations or to avoid international sanctions aimed at the State. I note that the author of the proposal, the representative of Moxnes, himself represents a political environment that has problems seeing who is the aggressive state, even where it is obvious to everyone else, where a military superior neighbouring state throws itself over a weaker neighbouring country, occupys a land area that is then annexed, and then for years continues to carry on ongoing war operations to ensure control of the border provinces of the victim state. As is well known, the Central Committee of the Red Party adopted an opinion on the attack on Ukraine that supported Russia’s story of the past and where it was actually the United States that was designated as responsible. This may remind us that claims about who is engaging in aggression are subject to political abuse. We can also add that Russian forces occupied Crimea without the characteristics necessary under the Geneva Convention. Here, too, international law was to be ready. So it is not treaties and treaty additions that are lacking, but a international law that can be enforced according to the rules that already exist, where the war and the course of action can be brought before the courts. I do not overlook the fact that someday international law can be developed in the direction that the case rapporteur imagines, but it is not enough to conclude new conventions that will deepen and strengthen international law, as long as the main problem is non-compliance with the rules we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2662	It has been particularly important to follow the Storting's approach to this case, where Red proposes something to be believed to be in the interests of all parties, since it is also in Norway's interest to strengthen the protection of Norway against war of aggression with a stronger legal protection in both national and international law. But it doesn't seem like the Justice Committee is so concerned about, because they reject our proposal, and on the way they're doing well for all the strawberry arguments they've been served by both the Secretary of State and the Government. It is both a bit surprising and discouraging to see how the Justice Committee actively disregards the solid pile of clear and clear consultation input from a wide range of legal experts, from the Defence's own researchers, from the International Judicial Commission in Geneva and from the Coalition of the International Criminal Court, which represents 2,500 organisations and associations in more than 150 countries around the world. These hearing bodies, in fact all but one, support the proposal. There will be a strengthening of the international legal order and the International Criminal Court, they say. You can wonder if the Justice Committee has been involved in these hearings. It doesn't seem like that. There has been no proper consultation in the matter, and the written recordings that came have never been made publicly available either. This slightly voiced discussion of a proposal to strengthen international law sends out some unfortunate political signals about Norway's international obligations, gives these parties the fact that international law is a bottom line in Norwegian foreign policy, perhaps a bit hollower sound, and also weakens the government's credibility in this matter. For a long time it was a mystery to me why the government went against what I thought was a proposal on which the Stortinget could be brought together, namely to give Norway the legal protection we did not have in 1940, a legal protection that the world's states promised to introduce to each other after the Nuremberg process, which was called the attack war for the 'the supreme crime', and never promised each other again, a legal protection that the last surviving actor from these historically important legal processes, namely, 101-year-old Benjamin Ferencz – who just before Christmas was honored by the International Criminal Court for being a so-called lighthouse of light in the fight against impunity for those who commit cruel crimes – urged Norway to stop and who even made written submissions, but thus for the Justice Committee's relatively deaf ears. As I said, it was a mystery for a long time why this proposal does not get the approval of the government and the Storting, until a few days ago I got the news from Denmark that neither the Danish government will ratify the Kampala plugin. Then I got a hint as to why our own government, with the support of the Justice Committee, also opposes the proposal. In the extension of the strawman arguments used by our own government, the Danish government states straight out that this is about being able to continue to wage war under the command of the United States and without a UN mandate: ‘Denmark is one of the few countries that considers that in exceptional situations international law allows such intervention without a mandate from the United Nations Security Council.’ Many people may think that such international rules of law, with cryptic names such as the Kampala supplement to the Rome Statutes, have no practical significance, that they are therefore mere speeches, but the clear speech of the Danish Government shows what this is actually about. It also clarifies the Norwegian government’s more – let’s say – substituting arguments, so we see what is really about, namely that the Norwegian political elite, which has participated in a wide range of foreign attacks for the past 30 years, wants to have the opportunity to continue doing so in the future. But they don't say that in plain text. Here we have something to learn from our Danish friends. The Danish Government is thus much clearer and more honest in its speech. You get a clearer and more honest debate in the extension of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2686	Combating impunity for the most serious international crimes is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy. This is why the International Criminal Court is also an important player in this fight, and Norway has been a central supporter from the outset to provide a strong independent universal court. A crime of aggression exists in the use of power between States of such a nature that the act is accompanied by individual criminal liability for the political and/or military leaders of the States. The crime includes the planning, preparation and initiation or implementation of an action of aggression which, by its nature, gravity and scale, constitutes a manifest breach of the UN Charter's prohibition of the use of force against another country. Examples of the crime of aggression could be war of aggression, it could be invasion and annexation of the territory of another country. The history of this aggression crime is fragile. It is not up to me to consider which arguments the representative of Moxnes should use, but I actually want to ask myself that this is referred to as a strawberry argument. In that case, there is a strawman argumentation of different governments, including those. SV set in, has passed through a series of years. It has been a difficult and divisive case for ICC parties for several years. When the Rome Statutes were adopted in 1998, it was decided that the Court should have jurisdiction over four categories of crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression crimes. However, the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice with regard to the offences of aggression was suspended because it was not possible to agree on the definition of the crime and the role of the UN Security Council in such cases. The then government expressed scepticism in its proposal for the ratification of the ICC Statute, which was then dealt with by the Stortinget. At the 2010 Review Conference in Kampala, a definition of aggression was adopted following very demanding negotiations. Only in 2017, once again after very difficult negotiations, it was decided that aggression crimes should be activated as a crime category under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice as of 17 July 2018, for those parties that have ratified the Kampala Supplement. So far, 40 states, i.e. less than one third, ratified the Appendix. There are several challenges to this. One is that the collection of evidence for aggression actions will be very challenging in a situation where neither the home Member State nor the Security Council supports the investigation. The second is that the offence of aggression could contribute to the politicisation of the court, because the ICC is a judicial body for individual criminal prosecution, it should not resolve intergovernmental disputes. The special feature of aggression crimes, compared to the other categories, is that the Court has to establish state responsibility, that is, that a state has committed an act of aggression contrary to the United Nations Charter. All of this will happen in a situation where the Security Council has probably not decided to characterise its action as an aggression. The uncertainty about the interpretation of the penal code was also a weighty consideration for the red-green government. When Norway acceded to the Kampala Addendum in 2010, Norway indicated in a explanation of vote that the assessment of any ratification would assess whether further clarification is necessary in order for the Appendix to enter into force for Norway. The assessment is the same today, and in the 2010 explanation of vote, the government gave a decisive emphasis to the need for the ICC to give priority to the three other categories, i.e.: genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, including because the investigation of aggression crimes will be very resource-intensive, for the reasons I mention, and the court is unlikely to have access to the evidence. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is now ratifying other amendments to the Rome Statute. As regards amendments to Article 8 on war crimes, which extends the list of illicit weapons types and also criminalises the starvation of civilians as a means of fighting in non-international armed conflicts. This has already been approved by the State Council and the authorisation instrument will soon be delivered to the depositary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2711	I can assure the Foreign Minister that the Justice Committee is listening to hearings. We have also read the letter of reply from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on this matter, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government, writes that work is continuing to strengthen the ICC, that work remains on the Rome Statutes, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred in his statement, and that the government will look at how the ICC applies this penalty. The question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: does she and the rest of the government exclude a ratification, as proposed here, if the questions raised and which Norway is dealing with find their solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2718	No, Norway has not ruled it out at any time. And we're not going to do that right now. However, when there is uncertainty about the content and interpretation of this aggression crime, when there is less than one third of the states that have ratified, when we know – which is an important point to take into account – that the ICC does not have jurisdiction over a State that is not a State Party to the Rome Statutes, nor jurisdiction over an act of aggression committed by a citizen of a State Party that has not ratified, even if the affected State has ratified, and when we know that most of the 40 States are European, it also means that it has not yet been given the greatest practical significance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2723	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to give his assessment of whether the Norwegian Government is following the Danish Government when they justify in their opinion the rejection of this proposal in Denmark that they wish to be able to intervene without a mandate from the UN Security Council. Is it so to understand that the government in Norway shares the desire to have the opportunity to go to war without a UN mandate, and could it also be the back ground that the government is critical of our proposal to ratify the Kampala Supplement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2730	As the representative of Moxnes must have heard, this was not part of my government's reason, which I have also described in detail in the letter to Stortinget. At the same time, Denmark is one of the very few countries that recognise humanitarian intervention as an independent basis for international law. Norway does not. This is probably also the background that Denmark has behaved as they have. Denmark is given an answer to its assessment of why they may not wish to ratify the Kampala Supplement. It is also in line with what Sweden has said that they do not want to do, certainly with a different reason. Norway explains the reasons why we have not agreed to ratify at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2735	There are a number of other upland countries, such as Germany, which have ratified. There is also a majority of NATO countries. There is no obstacle in the NATO Pact to ratifying. Norway could have gone on the line of Germany — more than on the line of other countries — if you had wanted to. It has been mentioned from several teams that the ICC is so weakened that there is an argument to fail to ratify. If the ICC is weakened, the court can be politicised, and there is a pressure against the court, not least from the United States, it is rather an argument to support the work of the court and then help ratify the Kampala Supplement. If it is that the collection of evidence is demanding and the court lacks support, is that not exactly a good argument that Norway should ratify rather than fail to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2742	There are 16 NATO countries that have ratified. Of course, there is no reason not to be able to ratify, but we have made our assessments based on the fact that we believe – like two thirds of the states – that this will not be appropriate for the matter as it stands now. The Court of Justice is subject to political attacks all the time. It has been throughout its lifetime. We have been busy not doing anything that weakens it further. With regard to genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, there have gradually been mature definitions of crime, one of which has somehow been able to depolitize this. That, I believe, is a strength for the court. There is also something we have wanted to contribute to and support under. But, as I explained in my post, in this situation, the risk of the ICC being involved in political conflicts between states, where they are not really going to have jurisdiction. They don't have it in the other three crime categories, and they get it here in a way that makes them more likely to be abused as a political instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2749	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2756	As the rapporteur, I would just like to say in the beginning that I believe that this matter has been dealt with in the wrong committee. We see that the participation of the Justice Committee in this Chamber is absent. No one in the Judicial Committee has taken part. Those who have signed up are from the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it is also the Foreign Minister who covers the matter. I believe that part of the lack of commitment in this matter is due to its having ended up in the wrong committee, in the Justice Committee, which normally does not deal with questions of international law. This is in the minutes of the rapporteur. Now that I'm going to speak as an SV representative, I just want to justify why we're supporting this supplement. We support Norway joining the Kampala Plugin. There are some overriding reasons for what does not necessarily intervene in the more legal areas, but we believe that Norway should be involved in major initiatives that contribute to strengthening legal protection against attacks. It's exactly what this initiative and this supplement are also part of. It is indicated by both the international experts and the countries that have joined, that such a mechanism can be deterrent to war. So we are creating a better legal framework against war in this extension of the powers of the International Criminal Court. Norway, by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has repeatedly stood on this pulpit and said that international law is Norway’s main defence. In other words, the stronger international law is, the stronger international law is linked to ensuring that countries respect agreements between countries, the more it is Norway’s most important defence, more important than military instruments. This mechanism is therefore about strengthening international law, which is also an important strength for Norway. Norway has a tradition of doing this. It is very, very rare that Norway does not support initiatives under international law. I remember one other time, and it is in line with the international nuclear ban, which Norway does not support, which is also a international legal initiative. Then it is this case, which Norway does not support either. The government raises some legal issues about this, including: related to the definition and its unfortunate consequences. But strangely – I don’t know exactly where they picked it from – this is not shared by the 16 NATO countries that have joined this. Nor is it shared by the international legal experts, who actually support such a link. You have to ask questions about whether this is also part of a political game. The proposal comes from Red, and it will be difficult for this government to endorse a proposal that comes from Red. I look forward to the government promoting this matter on an independent basis later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2773	It may be an abuse of the time of the Storting to refute the seven-year-old groans of the representative of Tetzschner on the Red's view of Russia's aggression against Crimea, but I can, for the sake of order – perhaps Tetzschner leaves it in the future – just refer to what Red wrote by myself about this in the newspapers of that time, namely that Red condemned Russia's aggressive behaviour in Crimea and demanded Putin to stop the military escalation immediately. We also pointed out – and that is to be said, perhaps something that Tetzschner has not achieved – that the Jewish World Congress defined a party in the new government as a Nazi party, so there is reason not to be entirely uncritical to parts of the circles that took over power. I hope several parties see that it may be unfortunate to support regimes that have Nazi parties in their midst. Then we were clear, and I think that is in line with our values, which we should stand up for without being ashamed of it. With regard to the objections raised by the government to the proposal, it is the case, as Eide mentioned, that they have been rejected by the leading legal team on point by point. I will just briefly refer to what Geir Ulfstein has said about the matter, which he has both given a hearing to and also given a short short short version. The main thing may be the importance for Norway. As he points out: ‘Norway is a small country dependent on a strong international law, not least in terms of protection against attacks.’ He pointed out that in 2019 the government said that ‘Norway’s main foreign policy interest is to prevent the weakening of international legal order and multilateral governance systems’. It was also said – as he refers to – that Norway must always ‘work to develop, maintain and interpret international law in a way that is in line with our strategic interests and values’. The conclusion of Ulfstein is as follows: ‘There is good reason to argue that ratification of the Appendix on the Aggression Crime will develop international law in a way that is served by Norway. Similarly, it is difficult to see that the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his letter has given sufficient weighty arguments to wait with Norwegian ratification.’ I just record that from a leading legal team both in Norway and internationally, there is great support for our proposal, and it is in our opinion a sin that the Stortinget does not take this any more into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2794	I notice that the case rapporteur in his capacity as SV representative believes that it would be difficult for the government parties to support this because it is a proposal that comes from Red. That is not the case, good proposals will be supported. But this is not, in our view, a good proposal, nor is it a proposal that helps to prevent the weakening of the international legal order, simply because, in our opinion – and we are quite many countries at a time – it is a way to weaken the ICC because it politicises the court in a way that makes it less effective. It says the matter today. As I replied to the representative Henriksen: that does not mean that Norway will not ratify in the future. But as the matter stands today, it is really unchanged from the scepticism that lay in St.prp. No 24 for 1999-2000, which was to ratify the ICC Statute. Then Kjell Magne Bondevik was the prime minister. It is exactly the same scepticism that was expressed in the 2010 explanation of vote by the Red-Green Government, in which SV put in, and which used exactly the same arguments, both the legal difficulties of evidence and the fact that in a situation where the Court has four categories, attention should be paid to the three that are the most practical. That's the same scepticism that we're expressing right now. This follows a long line in Norwegian policy, which has looked at how best to contribute to strengthening both ICC and international law. It's, as I was also in my post, so that if these conditions change, there'll be room to look at this again. This is not a static assessment; it is a dynamic assessment. But it is also worth noting that scepticism has really been the same from the time the ICC was established, until now. Although there has been an agreement on the definition, the concern is linked to both the scope, effectiveness and the possibility of collecting evidence. For the time being, 40 countries have ratified — less than one third. Mainly European countries have ratified, 16 of them are NATO countries. This means that there are of course slightly different assessments of this also among European countries. But our assessment has been firm over time, and it is well argued for both in the letter and in the discussion we have had here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2805	There was a side note for the undersigned. I will also refer for the future to the opinions of the party, which it is said to be, represented by the representative of the Moxnes – which has a very prestigious record in terms of both democracy and the rule of law – in connection with Russia's occupation of Crimea Peninsula in 2014. This is also written in sources outside the central government of Red – or central committee or political bureau, or what it is called – so here they have to go out and distance themselves from what they said in 2014, and we can discuss whether they can establish a new basis to discuss with others how democracy and the rule of law are developed internationally. As long as it doesn't happen and there's only claims from Red, against better knowledge, based on sources that are publicly available, for statements you actively went out with in its time, as long as there's no self-criticism on it, I'm going to repeat this and other questionable aspects of Red and its legal basis or their political basis and what they represent. There is no grant for democracy, and there is no grant for the rule of law – not in Norway and not internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2811	This issue is about whether Norway is going to ratify now, with the uncertainty that exists. I just want to stress what the Foreign Minister also said, with this treatment, neither the Stortinget nor the government will rule out ratification in the future, but you're not voting to ratify now. It is important for the Workers' Party to say that Norway has been a driver for both maintaining and strengthening the International Criminal Court, which the Labour Party is committed to, and it is important to continue its work. With regard to the issue of aggression crimes, there is controversy, and there is still a great deal of uncertainty about whether it is safe for Norway to ratify. I want to add that the Justice Committee has listened to hearings. It's not all the hearings we agree with. Amnesty also points out that the ICC already has difficulties in fulfilling its mandate on war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. This criminal court is relatively newly established in international context and has already been the subject of a number of political attacks. Now taking in aggression crimes can weaken respect for the court and politicize it more than necessary. It is not a contribution to safety either for Norway or for other countries. Red speaks of the importance of protecting Norway from the war of aggression. The main protection Norway enjoys against aggression from other countries and today’s war of aggression is NATO. One of the other things Red has been completely crystal clear about, is that the party will report Norway out of NATO. It will create more uncertainty than most. The Labour Party considers that NATO membership, a strong UN and ensuring that the ICC is internationally established, are essential for Norway’s security. Then it's not wise, as Red adds, to do something that potentially creates uncertainty about any of these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2820	The representative Bears Moxnes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2825	It was not Red who said ‘the rescuer of European civilization’ about Hitler, it was the Young Right who said. It wasn't Red that supported Franco in the 1930s, it was the Right that did. It wasn't Red that had trouble getting away from the military junta in Greece because of the United States' tight ties to the junta, it was the Right that had. Nor was it Red that in the 1980s supported American interventions that had been in support of quite brutal regimes in Central America, it was the leading Right-wing people who did. As Svenn Stray himself said, you had to admit to some extent the right of the United States to interfere with Central America. We can have a history seminar in Stortinget. Then the Right History must also be thoroughly reviewed. I'll take that debate any day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2832	The representative, Michael Tetzschner, has also spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2837	The representative of Moxnes is inviting a debate on history. I look forward to that, because he has a lot to learn. He can start by taking a break from his own party and their actions on this side of the war. Otherwise, the presentation given by the Right before the war is completely misleading. The right was one of the conservative, bourgeois parties that were constantly under C.J. Hambro had a consistent line on these questions. It's just to look at the big guy's annals. Unlike what Red has reason for, we are proud of those who have preceded us in our political movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2842	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5, and the President thus states that both the story story and the debate on the matter have been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2859	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2868	Documents 8:71 S for 2019-2020 on securing police resources for the work of the electorate and elected in close relations deal with five proposals, where the proposers ask the government to: ensure the ear-marking of funds for the investigation of family elections, selections, elected in close relations and sexual offences against children; establish police control tools that include target numbers for the police’s work on selected in close relations; establish specialised teams in each police district which are to work exclusively with elected representatives in close relations; extend the capacity of organised detachment and establish several children’s housings ensure that the SARA and PATRIARK tools are properly implemented in the police districts; First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. I am sure that on behalf of a Joint Committee I can assure you that election and election in close relations and child abuse are regarded as very serious crime which must be prevented and combated, and which we, independently of the party, take most seriously. From the Right side, I want to show that the Granavolden platform makes it clear that this is a priority area with high attention from the government party. Work on selection and selection in close relations is a matter for many sectors and requires coordinated action. A new cross-ministerial action plan against violence in close relations is under way and will help to increase efforts in this important area further. I would like to refer to the government's action plan against the electorate for 2019-2022, where the actions are divided into five areas of action: targeted prevention strengthening the provision of assistance after selection better follow-up of perpetrators Strengthened investigation and treatment in the legal system more knowledge and competence The anti-choice action plan shall contribute to ensuring a holistic and co-ordinated response in an area where many sectors have a responsibility. In addition, there are a number of other bets and measures that I did not expect to be included here today. The work on prevention, investigation and investigation of this type of crime is also a high priority in the police, which we clearly see as the increasing number of cases that have been detected, investigated and brought to justice, and the increased activity we record in children's homes. The police have been significantly strengthened in recent years, and in connection with the implementation of the police reform, there have been established own professional environments in all police districts with competent agents working on precisely these issues. The eye-catching of funds may sound provocative, but we believe that the police are the closest and best placed to assess the best use of resources based on the crime and challenge picture they constantly face. Challenges and needs can change rapidly and vary between different districts. An ear tag will tie up resources and take away from the police the flexibility and space they should have to carry out their social mission in the best possible way. Today there are eleven children's houses in Norway, and in addition we have three subdivisions, in the Church, in the Lake of Mos and in the Förde. The number of children's homes is not the challenge, but the capacity of deputies and deputies. There has been an evaluation of children’s housing, and the issue related to the challenge picture in the police districts will be one of several topics that the evaluation will address. The SARA and PATRIARK risk tools are useful tools for police and are implemented in most police districts. The Police Directorate follows closely the police districts that are still implementing them, and we trust that these tools will be implemented in all police districts as quickly as possible. Election and election in close relations are punishable and unacceptable. It's acts that cause great suffering to the victim, and it's devastating to society. This type of crime is a high priority, and in the light of the measures and processes already in place, the Right does not consider it appropriate to support the proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2924	The working party strongly supports the intentions of proposals No. 1-3, from SV. The investigation lift hangs well. The fact that we have not implemented an action plan against selected in close relations after the previous one started in 2017 indicates that there is a great deal of inertia in the work. The labor party thinks we have to control the money that it needs. We have supported similar proposals in the past, but as we refer to in our alternative budget, we now believe that the most important thing is to implement a proper appeal. That's why that's the priority we have now, in the throne of action, that's in the police districts. There is a need to increase the loopholes in police districts so that the investigation promise can be carried out, and the very largest bottleneck now, where the victim of crime is in unworthy queues, is due to the prosecution crisis. That's why we don't support a proposal we've voted for before, just because we can't do it at once. We also believe that we need to be careful about imposing new targets on the police now, without being seen in a larger context. The Labour Party has too long warned that we want to implement a trust reform in the state, and we will not support the proposal for new targets until a thorough review of the whole target management regime in the police is done. To the proposal on the own professional environment: I believe that the Council of State has given good answers there, given what is created in the police districts. We also mean here that it's about capacity and maybe what we all were a little surprised about here during the day: competence. With that, I also refer to the Riksrevision's rather shaky report when it concerns the lack of competence and the fight against ICT crime in the police. The working party has quite since the creation of the children's house, which came under the red-green government, with Knut Storberget at its head, being very committed to it. We also see that the challenges are now at the highest level on detachment capacity. We also expect the Council of State to come to Stortinget with an evaluation of children's homes, which is a warning, and we also support, as in the past, that we can create more children's homes satellites. So to proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox When it comes to the risk tools, both PATRIARK and SARA, we've had it up in the staging room many times, and I think there's something that everyone really should be able to get behind. We, the members of the Judicial Committee, know that there is not enough to do so when it comes to the use and competence of a number of other tools, such as: reverse violence alarm, in several police districts. There is a need for better work to be done here. Therefore, the whole Storting should be able to stand behind proposal No. 5, so that we can make sure that these tools are implemented. It is quite serious when we read that partnardrap has been performed in Norway where we know that these risk tools have not been used. I would strongly recommend all parties to support proposal No. 5, which is about PATRIARK and SARA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2941	I agree with all that the representative, Mr. Wagzlid, just said in his fine speech, and with our intentions. We stand together in the comments on this she raised, which concerns, among other things. the capacity for prosecution, investigation, interrogation, etc. There are some important things that are addressed in the proposal, and also in the comments, in the SV's justification for the proposal. I am thinking in particular of the figures for the variation in the percentage of clearance in different police districts. The clearance rate, according to the figures in the setting, varies between the lowest, 16,5 pst., in the South-East police district, and the highest, 45 pst. and 50 pst., in Finnmark and Troms respectively. It says that Oslo is about in the middle of the tree, at 28.6 p.m. There I would add that Oslo, on average, as far as I know, has an explanation rate of 35 pst, which is lower than in the country else. So they're relative to their average otherwise not so much lower. But the fates of those families – the children like that. has reported a case, which has been interrogated, and where a case is going on, and which then goes into that conflict and crisis with regard to their family and their parents – it is terrible to think about. Any matter that is not resolved is very serious. I just have to say that in some of the things I know about young people who have become very pervasive and ended up in very difficult environments, partly youth-criminal environments, and got a track where it has been difficult to stop their development, have been serious domestic violence, violence in close relationships, so is some of the background that they have got the difficult development, the poorer relationship with home and parents and authorities, etc. This is serious. I have had a lot of contact with the environments working with them, including: at the Stovner Police Station, which has developed these methods, SARA and PATRIKARK, here in Norway. There's no doubt that there's a lot of resources set aside, and there's a lot of people working on it. It is a high priority, and they have also helped and trained the other police districts to develop these methods. There are such environments in all police districts, as can be seen from the Council's replies and the position. What they have especially trained them in, as they tell me, is that there is a particular lack of competence about the other police districts, and that they are also struggling with themselves, is understanding and understanding about violence in close relationships that has to do with negative social control, honor and such issues, because then it is even more difficult to prove and need through the obstacles that are, in order to solve a case. I have followed some of these matters until the trial in Oslo District Court, and I must say that it is very demanding to see what is happening. Children who then find themselves in a situation where they have been questioned, and who report and testify against their own family, often find themselves in a crisis. If it takes a year or two, that is, a long time, before the matter comes up, I have seen how bad they are, and that they are standing and changing their explanation, drawing their explanation and saying something else. We just have to be aware that when the police work on this, even when they have good people who understand the environment and understand what it's all about, it's difficult. We have to be careful not to believe that the percentage of clarification and the percentage of judgement and all that is related to priority. Some of the police officers working on these issues know me well and have been in contact for many years. They are very engaged and work very hard and for years on a single matter. I can mention one case from 2002, where family violence had been going on since then, with which they have been working for several years, and which went to court last year, and they saw how the explanation was changed when you were going to court. We have to be aware of that, and it has to be very high priority. It's bad to see how difficult it is, and it's not always that the percentage of information is just related to the priority. But we have to stick to the understanding of how important these matters are, which I experience that all the government councils that I have been in since Knut Storberget have given very strong signals about. We are also doing it here today from the Storting in terms of how the setting expresses this, and in what is said here in the debate. But the most important priority for us now is what it says: resources for investigation and prosecution, that it doesn't stop with it, as Lene Wagschlid explains.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2958	First of all, I just want to say that as a proposaler, I am very happy to hear that there is a connection in Stortinget, and that there is a complete agreement on the understanding of this issue. I'm very happy about that. Then we can discuss how to solve it, but we agree on the challenges. This is also about a little fundamental discussion: how will the Storting go in and control what the police are doing? Should the Storting be involved in the content of police work, or should the police work and priorities of the police be left solely to the police themselves? There is a tradition in Norway that the Stortinget and the government interfere with what the police do. Just a few examples: the Progress Party has been put through to the government in order to have measured figures for chasing down illegal asylum seekers. It's detail management of the police, and the police use a lot of resources to get these numbers. The Central Party has now put forward a proposal that we should bind resources in the police to prevent and combat recriminal crime, which I think is a small problem if we compare with what we are talking about here. But it's target management and direct political control of the police's work. In our proposal, which we have discussed before, we want to target governance and commit resources to the police related to violence in close relations and rape. I mean, like everyone here and the Minister of Justice, that of course we're going to be held back from running the police too much. We need to have confidence in the police's professional judgements and their knowledge of what are the right challenges, and also the cooperation they have with the National Attorney. In conversation with police officers around the country, I have heard that they get annoyed when politicians get involved in what they are doing and try to control details too much – for example. the target for illegal asylum seekers. However, when I suggest that we use detail in this area, there are two premises that form the basis. One is about importance, scale and seriousness; the other is about it being in line with the recommendations of the Advocate General. To take it seriously first. There is no other area in the Norwegian justice sector that is as extensive as violence in close relations and rape. It is to the degrees of the greatest crime we have in Norway today. That's also where most of the reviews come in, and that's also where the police in many police districts fuck. They lack capacity. Too many of the provisions — on average about seven out of ten — it is reported to be due to a lack of capacity. What happens then is that the victims in these cases get a standard letter back from the police. They have e.g. Reported a father, a brother, or an uncle for assault, and so the case is dismissed for various reasons. At the same time, they might live with the attacker, who can keep doing this. This challenge is very serious – that the police have no capacity to do anything about it. Now, when we come up with these proposals, it is about providing the police with the necessary capacity and also a strength internally to carry out those priorities, as they themselves wish. The lawyer himself has said several times in his circular that such matters should prevail over other matters. It is therefore more important to use capacity to investigate an abuse of a child or a rape than for example. trying to find who stole a car or lit a house. So these issues are much more important, but for the police to do these priorities, they also need clear signals from the Storting about what's important. This can happen with the suggestions we have here, by earmarking these means. We know that these issues have a high priority in the police, I've met a lot of police around the country who are very concerned about solving the challenges, which are burning to work with just assault and rape. There is definitely full trust in the involvement of the police in such matters. At the same time, the same police are very desperate, because they lack the capacity to deal with these issues. What I'm trying to do here is give them the necessary capacity to almost take them out of that despair and help them make the right priorities. I would then like to submit the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2977	The representative Petter Eide has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2982	It is 21 years since Odd Einar Dørum, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in the government of Bondevik I presented the first action plan against violence in close relations. It was a time change. It was no longer housewives, it was violent in close relationships, and it changed the way both the police and the other actors worked. Later, several action plans against violence have been put in place in close relations, and I look forward to a new action plan to be presented by today's government, for that is what is needed. Rape, violence in close relationships and violence and abuse against children and young people are growing problems that require specific competence to detect and combat. Police action against sexual offences in close relationships has been criticised in the past by several teams. Fortunately, more attention has been paid to this, both in the police and in politics, in recent years, and police work has also been strengthened in this area. In the context of the police reform, there is also a set of professional environments in all police districts with competent staff working on these matters. Violence, violence in close relationships and child abuse are a serious and widespread social problem. The number of reports of sexual abuse against children and young people has increased markedly in recent years, and we must acknowledge that we have failed to protect vulnerable children, young people and adults who are exposed to threats, abuses and violence by some of those close to them. We have not done enough to prevent, prevent and detect violence and abuse against children, and violence in close relationships. It is prevention that is all, most importantly. We do not solve these problems of adopting in Stortinget how the police will work. To prevent and combat the problems of violence in close relationships, police, health care, school, family protection, child protection and other relevant actors must cooperate closely, for things are interrelated. We can't fight violence in close relationships unless the health service also focuses on this, and we can't fight juvenile crime and recriminalism if we don't fight violence in close relationships. Every fourth killing in Norway is done by a current or former partner, and there is a link between violence in close relations and killing in close relations. The DRC has recently delivered its report and has made no less than 70 different proposals for action. This will be a very important basis for the government’s work on a new action plan against violence in close relations. It requires an offensive, but also an overall policy, and we need to talk right about what this is. It matters what we call it. It's not housewreck, and it's not family tragedy. It's called violence in close relationships, and it's called partner killing. This prioritises this government, and I look forward to the government presenting a new, multidisciplinary and cross-ministerial action plan against violence in close relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e2997	Fighting violence in close relationships and assaulting children is one of the most important things we as a society do, and there are at least two of the topics I have put highest on the priority list. It is also the case that this is the political consensus on which it should almost just be lacking. Here we can always do the job even better. We have some challenges. However, I would like to say that the work against violence in close relations has been strengthened and has received greater attention in recent years, and that is good. I understand that it is tempting to resort to earring when serious crime such as rape and violence takes place in close relations and it is not felt to have high enough priority in the police. I believe, however, that the police themselves are best placed to know how to make decisions and priorities in a purely police field, and I trust that this will happen. We have also seen this in practice, for example. through Operation Sandra in East Police District. The case started with two reviews from two boys, both of whom had been subjected to net infringement. Through investigation, the police identified 456 insults. The businessman lured and threatened naked pictures and videos from the offended and met several of them to commit sexual assault. The man was sentenced to 16 years in prison. I also believe that the organisational measures we have taken through the police reform have given the police a quality promise, and we have also built a police organization that is dynamic enough to meet new forms of crime. The letters of assignment provide the political leadership for police work in the coming year. The year’s letter of award requires the reduction of violence in close relations through effective prevention and high-quality effective criminal proceedings. The police are measured at the time of proceedings and the percentage of clarification for serious integrity-impairing crimes. In addition, the Directorate of Police is among others. asked to provide a qualitative assessment of the effects of work on prevention and combating violence and child abuse and abuse in close relationships. In this context, I would like to add that violence in close relations and abuse of children belong to the central priority of the National Attorney. It involves a rapid, targeted and thorough investigation of these matters with close prosecution, and they should also be given priority in the event of a lack of resources in the police districts. The investigation of the DRC is now under examination in the department. Like the majority of the committee, the committee proposes, inter alia: that the police as part of the governance dialogue report on the use of the number of risk assessments, i.e. SARA and PATRIARC. There are already demands from the Police Directorate that police districts carry out risk assessment in all partner violence, but I see that there may be grounds to consider whether further action might be relevant. When it comes to the need to establish several children's houses or subdivisions of the already existing houses, I will come back to this after receiving the evaluation of the scheme during the summer of 2021. Let me also say that there are several initiatives going on to review and improve police management and strengthen the work against rape and violence in close relations. We are now working, together with other departments, with a new action plan on violence in close relations, and with a separate section on violence and abuse in Sami areas, which will be available during the spring. In addition, the National Audit Office has initiated an administrative audit of the government’s efforts against violence in close relations. That's good. Many actors work well, and it does very well, but we can always do an even better job to prevent this kind of cruel crime, which creates so much insecurity in life to so many small and large.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3020	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3025	That may be what the Council of State said in its article, and then I just have to complain, but we wonder when the government is going to follow up the evaluation of the children's houses that one indicates that the POD has seen going on. What plans does the government have for its follow-up and evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3031	I said that a little bit in general. We're getting an evaluation towards summer, that's in the spring. I hope it is not delayed because of the covid situation, at least I am not informed about it. So we get an evaluation now. Once we get it, we have to evaluate how it should be followed up. What I can say is that of course I've visited several children's homes when I've been around the police districts, and my impression is that it's doing a very good job, and that it's a good foundation that we should build on. Then there has been a wish, among other things. to have more than one department, because the travel distance for some children is long. We saw that it was difficult in the covid situation. These are things we have to deal with. We have strengthened the children's houses and established several subdivisions. So of course the question is, how many can we have to have to have good enough quality in some things? It is limited in a country like Norway. But we have to follow this closely when we get the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3040	Thanks for the answer. The party drape selection options are ready. It's been waiting a long time. My second question will then be: how will the government follow up on the Party-Drap selection, and when can we possibly wait for follow-up in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3047	I was in the lucky situation that I did not wait that long for the setting until I got it, I got it now before Christmas. I believe it is a very thorough and good work that has been done. The DRC has been through all the killings in the last few years. They've done some work, and they've done a review that makes them make over 70 recommendations. We're now going through each recommendation. This report came in mid-December, and there is a lot that has happened in other areas since then, but we are going through each recommendation. Then we're going to follow it up in the action plan we're now working on. There are several interesting suggestions. These include: related to the non-use of reverse violence alarm. It's a proposal to set up an independent investigation commission for these killings, which is special because we get very often warnings about them, and a number of other circumstances. We are going through every proposal thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3056	I thank you for your answer. The use of the reverse dial alarm is unlikely to be important to ensure that something is done. It is today a great burden for the victim himself to have to wear a election alarm. My last question is: we've had four years soon without an action plan against violence in close relationships. What I mean in the Labour Party is far too bad. It's a very good tool. So my question is, why has it taken so many years since the previous action plan went out, without a new one in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3065	I look at it completely differently. The point of an action plan is that it has a beginning and an end, and then the measures should be of such a nature that they are implemented, that they are working on, and that one looks at their effect. The point is not to work all the way based on action plans. An action plan, actions should be implemented and worked out. The action plan launched in 2014 had many and very important actions. This meant that we were created Project November. This meant that we started research programmes, both on violence and on partner drops. As a result, we received campaigns aimed at families and people who were subjected to violence. This caused us to implement SARA and PATRIARC as tools. So we got our own team in the police districts. I could still and still. The point is that these measures have been implemented. Now we see the effect of them. But now is also the time to see how we can do this work even better. We can always do the job better, and we'll do it, whether we have an action plan or not. So now there's a new one that's based on the old one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3074	When I talk to those who I want to say have the widest experience of working with these things in this country, i.e. those who are working on this at the Stovner Police Station, there is one thing they have said to me after being in contact with many of the other police departments on these matters. It is that one of the reasons why there is too low a percentage of information and that there is too much difficulty in getting through to the issues is that there is too little knowledge and understanding about how to position oneself when violence in close relationships is about negative social control, honorary violence and that kind of issue, that there is too little expertise on it in the police. My question is how will the Council of State ensure that those knowledge, what you need to know to find so-called input to matters, and that competence, can be strengthened throughout the police. For today, some of the few who know a lot about this need to speed around in many police districts and assist in the most difficult cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3081	It's true that this requires special knowledge and special methods, and it's working on it. A separate action plan was launched in 2017 against negative social control, coerciveness and sexual mutilation — also across several ministries. There were very specific areas of intervention, also linked to research in this area, and of course the Ministry of Justice has also been part of it. So we learn both from the action plan and from there and through the job that is done, and especially from this point on, for example. in the November project at Stovner, where they have more experience with this than many other places. Fortunately, the Oslo police share their knowledge. Each district doesn't have to figure out how to work when you can share knowledge, and we need to do that much better. But here we can still do a job; we can still find even better ways to share knowledge, find knowledge and develop new methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3088	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. She has a very convincing and trusting understanding of the importance of these matters, I hear. We share the 100 percent understanding of that problem area, and I'm very happy about that. Then we disagree a little about the instrument – what we are discussing today. I hear that the Minister of Justice argues very fundamentally against the Stortinge to govern the police with earmarks etc. of resources. The police have to decide for themselves, she just said. Then I'm going to be a little fool, because then I understand that the Minister of Justice can now confirm that the police no longer have targets to pick up illegal asylum seekers here in the country, which they are going to find. Does this mean that the government has cut out the detailed management of the police regarding illegal asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3095	I just have to admit that on the move I don't know. I have prepared for a debate on violence in close relationships, so I must admit that I do not know. But what I'm for is running the police, so in case I've given the impression that I'm against running the police, I'm not. I'm very much in charge of the police, and we do that through governance dialogue, through letters of assignment, and by being clear on what to prioritize. This area will be given priority, and I will follow it up in all my meetings with the police districts, at the latest today in a meeting with the Police Directorate, in order to be as clear as I can in order that we should prioritise this; we shall measure this on. There's a difference between that and saying that so and so much money we're going to spend on a separate area, even when that area is pretty unclear. Violence in close relationships is raped, it's killing – there's a number of relationships that aren't one box and one use of money. We have to give priority to that, and that's how the police use 30 pst. of its resources of 3 pst. of the cases. I think that's absolutely right, because we have to do the most important thing first, and we can't do everything at once. I am to run the police, but not by earring.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3102	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3123	In recent years, police Norway has experienced a sharp increase in the number of missions associated with psychiatry. The police department is concerned that many people with serious mental illness are caste balls in a system that does not provide them with the necessary treatment. The POD's response director believes that the increase in mission over the last five years – from 37,000 missions in 2016 to 53 000 in 2020 – gives rise to serious concern. Police think it's likely that more people with serious mental suffering than before in the future will carry out serious acts of violence and thus pose a threat both to themselves and to society. The Police Directorate has also received messages from the whole of Police Norway about an alarming increase in the case of gross and ruthless power from mentally unstable people. According to POD, perpetrators with mental illness, symptoms or suspicion of this may be associated with a significant proportion of police reports of killing and attempted killing since 2016. The Norwegian Psychological Association has also called for an alarm. They fear that the health care system is failing seriously mentally ill. They fear that people who may be a danger to themselves and others will not receive help. They're referring to a self-investigation that reveals that many people with severe mental illness don't get the help they think they need. Mental Health is also concerned about this development. There is a look-up that is about the fact that patients now actually stop referring to mental health protection, because patients still do not let go. It has also been a major increase in police armed missions. In 2009, there were nearly 2,000 armed missions, and ten years later this figure is close to 10,000. That means an increase of 500 pst. Three mentally ill people have been shot and killed by the police in six and a half years. In the West, the number of armed missions has also increased, but the interesting thing is that in the same period, the number of ambulance missions has not increased. Both in the western police districts and in other police districts, the police themselves say that a possible cause — or contribution — to this increase is the change in the law on mental health protection. It was the amendment that entered into force in 2017 which increased the threshold for forced entry because of the introduction of consent requirements. This would strengthen patients' rights. The changes were controversial before they were introduced, and several hearing bodies pointed out at that time, in 2017, that this could lead to patients with severe mental illness refusing to receive treatment from mental health protection and could have serious consequences for the patient. There was a warning that this could lead to patients getting started later on proper treatment and getting sicker before getting the right help. The use of coercive measures could therefore be at risk of increasing the later course of illness. From the police's point of view, many people now wonder whether this change in law, with the intention of reducing the use of force, has given rise to a situation that makes society less secure, if the change in the law has given rise to a new and greater risk. There have been several murder cases in which the perpetrator has written out from psychiatric institutions and shortly afterwards executed killings, and that the sentence says that they were psychotic when they killed. The centre party has long been concerned about the degradation of mental health services. Many with us see the capacity problems in mental health protection as one of the reasons for the increase in psychiatry in the police. When you can read that the Police Directorate and the Health Directorate are now working together to revise the circular on health services and the police's responsibility for mental illness to ensure that the resources in the police are used correctly, my question is whether a revised circular is the solution to this problem. I think there are completely different system changes that need to be made to make changes in line with the patient's and society's best. There is no doubt that the sharp increase in psychiatry in the police is taking hold of significant police resources. One important question is: is it the right priority of the police's work resources that so much time and effort should be involved in psychiatry? But this is about more than the use of the police's resources; it's about completely fundamental values. The most important question is whether this is the right way to follow up seriously mentally ill patients. I have been contacted by several relatives who have experienced that close family members have carried out killings or themselves have been killed. It's about people who have been seriously mentally ill, and who depend on you don't have the treatment and follow-up they have. It's just very tragic, and actually you can't find a word. That the reduction of daily treatment capacity in mental health protection may have contributed to such consequences, some people need to talk about it for a while. That the 2017 amendment may also have contributed to a deterioration, some have to talk about it. The centre party has a proposal for a representative to evaluate this amendment from 2017, and it has received broad support in the hearings of the committee. We also proposed a follow-up evaluation then, in 2017, but did not get any more. After the change in the law came into force, the Western police district police officer in the media said that they were at a higher risk both for the population and for police officers on mission. In the Bergens newspaper on 28 October 2020, an prosecution leader is on hand and cannot escape the fact that several murder cases have been experienced in the police district. Several places in the media are looking at tragic patient stories and are saying from the police about alarming increases in psychiatry missions. The question that needs to be addressed is whether society has been a more dangerous place to be, and whether patients who need it get the treatment that can make them better. The police are going to scare people in distress, but it's not like the best thing for people in those situations is to meet the police. Psychiatric clinics can be one measure that both provides patients with a more dignified supply and frees the police from their resources to other police tasks and other responsibilities. It is not the patients with serious mental illness who are the problem in this case, the problem is that people with serious mental illness do not want to receive defensive health care, or that they are thrown into a system and are prone to unnecessary coercion. Psychiatric patients are not dangerous. They may have a disease that allows them to do dangerous things. But so many patients with serious mental illness seem to be being handled more and more by the police, I think I'm alarming – not because the police have more important things to do with it, but because it's an accident for those for whom both the police and the health services are for, for the citizens and the patients themselves. The question is what government and government will do about system changes to stop the development where the police have to do more and more psychiatry missions. What is the exact background for increasing the number of psychiatry assignments? Could unlucky events be avoided? How can we ensure more defenceful cooperation between health services and the police? And not least, how can we give people with serious mental illness good and worthy follow-up and treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3153	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for lifting an important topic that concerns both health and justice. Emergency situations have close and good cooperation, which is important because they have different roles and different training that complement each other in dealing with different events. The emergency measures therefore have a long tradition of interoperability in order to ensure the safety and security of the population. I'm saying this because it's important that we don't make it a problem that the blue-lighting acts work together. With regard to the police's mission related to health missions, I would first like to point out that the data to which Groningensrettel Toppe refers is inaccurate. Before 2015, it was up to each police district to record the various missions. In 2015, changes were made to ensure more consistent registration. It is therefore not entirely appropriate to compare the number of assignments registered as psychiatry missions in 2014 with the number of psychiatry missions registered in 2019, because the figures are based on different starting points for recording the event. Nevertheless, there is a reality that the number of tasks has increased significantly. The overall objective of government health policy is to ensure that health services are so good that the need for coercion is minimised. Nevertheless, situations will arise in which the police are asked to assist the health services, and this concerns several types of tasks. Let me give you a few examples: the police can for example. assist in the control of outpatients at the institution or in their own home and in ensuring the safety of health professionals. Police may also be asked to assist if persons who are subject to coercion refuse to obtain medical treatment. The use of power and power by the police always follows the so-called pyramid of power. This means that the police should not use more power and more power than is necessary for the serious nature of the situation. All police response personnel undergo thorough training in the legal framework of the police law and the weapons instructions for the police. In addition, they carry out annual training in the handling and use of firearms in different situations. When the police perform tasks related to mental health, the aim is always to prevent the person from being, or becoming, at risk to himself or others, and to ensure that the person is provided with the necessary health care. The development of mental health services in Norway is in the same direction as most other European countries and is in line with the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. The main features of the development of mental health services are less use of institutions and daily treatment and increased integration of local services where patients live. Norway still has a high number of daily places in mental health protection compared to most other countries in Europe. Compared to countries like Sweden, Denmark, Finland and England, we have about 50 pst. several daily places in Norway. I agree with the representative Toppe that there is reason to look at the police mission volume in this area. Major resources from the police are being deployed to assist health, especially in the context of psychiatry missions. The Minister of Health and Health and I have therefore already started work at both ministerial and directorate levels. The Ministry of Justice and Security and the Ministry of Health and Welfare are now working to clarify cooperation and the division of responsibilities and tasks between health and care services and the police to ensure that police resources are properly used in health-related tasks. A mission has been given to the Directorate of Police and the Directorate of Health to revise a joint circular on the responsibilities of the health services and the police for mental illness. Without prejudice to the covid-19 situation, work will hopefully be completed during 2021. We believe that, in sum, these measures can help reduce police resource use in this area. Let me conclude by saying that there is good contact and cooperation between the different levels of the police and the health services. Cooperation gaps have been established at the tactical level between emergency response leaders and at the operational level between the operational centres of the three emergency response units. Annual exercises are conducted on situations of ongoing life-threatening violence, PLIVO. As part of the police reform, both the Nordland and Finnmark police districts have co-located their operating centres with the emergency services of the fire and rescue services and health. Police districts are aware that the co-location has provided a good venue for setting up common understanding and assessments and for the exchange of information on tasks that are time-critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3170	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I haven't been worried that the nudetats can't cooperate. That they have a close and important cooperation today is also my clear impression, and historically they have also been good at it. That the figures are inaccurate may be, but it is quite unisonous from the services that there has been a large, large increase in the number of psychiatry missions in the police, which takes a lot of time and resources, and that there have been more serious events and possibly more use of coercion. Increase the number of weapons, etc. is also part of this image. It is good to get a briefing on what the police need to help the health care system. It's not like I or the Center Party don't mean that the police are going to help the health services. Of course, the police are supposed to help the health services, but that's not what this interview is about. He's about the fact that there's been such a marked increase, which also many relatives think that many unfortunate events have happened because one has not received enough and good enough health care. I note that the Council of State responds that they are now starting cooperation at department level, and that one is going to revise this common circular, but I'm concerned that this isn't enough, because it doesn't solve the challenges out there. And why was there such an increase in the commission to the police? I could imagine that the council said something more about if you knew that, and if I don't think that one actually has to go in and figure out why this increase is happening. It's not an end in itself that the police shouldn't have anything to do with these patients, they have to get the follow-up they need, but why has there been such an increase? I mean, it's related to the construction of bed places in psychiatry. One would like to refer to other countries, but there has been a drastic reduction here in Norway, but it has not been built up there – that is a bit of the point – without the same expansion of mental health in the municipalities. Together with the change in law that the Council of State did not introduce, there is a clear feedback that it has been worse since the law was changed. I also think that one must be willing to watch. One has to get into the case and find out what the reason for this is, so that one not only runs with a fire-extinguishing system, but also runs with a preventative system.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3181	We don't disagree that there has been a huge increase. I didn't problem it; I was just clear that the number material itself is not exactly accurate, so we don't know everything. Then it is that the interpellant believes to know why there has been an increase, and refers to the change in the consent code, in the reduction of daily places, etc., etc. There are questions that I think the interpellant should bring with the Minister of Health, because it is really about what health services a group of people should have and should have had in the opinion of the interpellant, if I understand her correctly. I hear nothing about her thinking that the police would change their efforts or do anything else, given the situation we are in. The justification for the increase can certainly be done in many ways. The task of the police is to assist when necessary, based on the laws of the police. There has been a change in the basis of consent, but now we have received some recommendations from the Forced Law Committee. There are recommendations that the Minister of Health is working on. We have also made changes to the penal code, which means that the group that fell between two chairs, which was therefore part of both criminal and health services, should now be protected in the area of mental health protection. It can probably be done more, but given that we have a group of people who are struggling with mental challenges, and that we have a desire to integrate them into society and work in a way that is different from what we did ten and twenty years ago, it can get results in e.g. an increase in mission. From my point of view. I've explained what's the police's job and our role, and how we do it. So we can always work better with the health care community, and we do. We have a number of things going on that means that we need to get a code that looks even better on the individual, because that's what it's really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3192	Thanks to the interpellant for travelling a very important issue in Stortinget. I myself have been very involved in the question for a long time. In my constituency, as it is now called, Telemark, there are also several media issues where many local politicians are very concerned about what the council itself was about, people who in some way end up between all the chairs. It is very good that one now should follow up both the compulsory law selection and several other things, but I also mean as the interpellant that it is important to get answers to what is the cause of the marked increase. In this way, it might be a state council here today, but I agree with Toppe that the degradation we have seen over time in mental health protection might suggest something for the reason. In Telemark, we have had examples of people who are dangerous to themselves and to others, but they may not be acutely ill enough to get them into acute psychiatry, and they may not have done anything criminal yet, so the police can't take them. In a way, the police cannot arrest them because they think they should be able to do something. Several assistant lawyers are also out there expressing great concern on behalf of their clients, because they are not being taken care of. That's what we're talking about, people's lives and health. It should not be the case that there are police people with mental challenges mainly to meet, even if I believe we are quite a few of them about helping the police. I dare remind you that the Right Party had made a promise before the fallout last when it came to the golden rule, that one should build up more in mental health than in the somatic environment. We see that the opposite has happened. So to the Minister of Justice: I would have listened very much to what the police officer in Oslo says. A short time ago, the police officer in Oslo was out in the new Avisa Oslo and asked to be heard when it was due to put in place psychiatrybulances. It's a very good recording that the police should also listen to. Even if it might be on the Minister of Health's table, it should be in the interest of the Minister of Justice to push the case against the Minister of Health, because it would be good to get these people in place, so that they met health professionals to a greater extent than the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3201	I don't know the reason for this, but what I'm referring to is at least what many people out there refer to in the services. This refers to both the reduction of bed capacity, the capacity of mental health protection and the change in the 2017 law on consent requirements. When the Council of State refers to changes in criminal law, it is quite right. It has also been used as an argument that mental health protection has been given much greater responsibility; many more patients receive it when several people are sentenced to treatment. What is bad is that this has happened without mental health protection being strengthened accordingly, so that other patients who need help from mental health protection are pushed out. I'm deeply concerned about the capacity of mental health protection, and I think this is part of the reason we're looking out there right now. I had hoped that the Council of State could say that now they would go well into this problem and find out why it is so that more people with serious mental illness now have to be taken care of by the police. Can we do something for those patients who don't get so far that they might not get so sick? Is it so that they lack treatment? Had the Minister of Health been here, I should have asked him about it, but we can only interpellate with one Council of State. It's a little descriptive, because these patients fell between two chairs out there, and they fell between two councillors in here. But I trust that the Council of State will do what it says, that a person will talk well together at departmental level and between state councils. Another example of this is that mental health protection is under pressure. As a follow-up to the criticism of isolation in prison and many mentally ill people there who do not receive sufficient treatment, the government has said that the area of mental health protection in all prisons should be created. But there's no money in there. This must be taken by other budgets, and it will in turn make capacity even worse. I'm asking for a real entry into the background of this increase. I would also like to hear the Council of State comment on this with psychiatrybulence. That's the good experience in Health Bergen, and it should be something that could have happened all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3212	I thanked the interpellant for the interpellant because I believe the theme is important, and it stands firm. When I referred to the Minister of Health, it was because I feel that the interpellation in itself is not about changes we're going to make in the police, in the judiciary, but about changes we're going to make in the health field, and then I think it's the Minister of Health who can respond better than me. But I can promise that we'll take this seriously. We see what's happening, and we hear what's happening. That's why we're working together between departments to see if we can work even better. So in the case of the law enforcement committee, the Ministry of Health is working on it. Experience has been gained in psychiatrybulance, but once again, this is the responsibility of health care companies. It's true throughout the country. It requires cooperation between health firms and individual medical officers and the police. We would like to take a closer look at this, but this is a question that primarily follows the health budget and not the justice budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3225	That is when the debate is on case No. Seven done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3243	I would like to welcome back, because, as the Council of State has personally experienced in the last few months, the Norwegian welfare state is built up by arrangements to ensure together good family life, but not least a basic security, which we all depend on in everyday life, so that workers will not live at the mercy of the boss and in fear of having to end up with lua in their hands. The trade union movement has spent over 100 years building up a safety net that is there if we fall. Now we're in the worst economic crisis since World War II -- it's hitting common people very hard -- and that's when we get to test whether society is connected and built up to deal with the problems that people are now facing. Those who are unemployed or on leave must receive an income they can earn until they get a new job. When mass unemployment hit Norway in March last year, Red was early on proposing an increase in the daily allowance level, especially for those with the lowest income. Our original proposal was 80 pst. coverage for income up to SEK 450000, which is the low-wage level in Norway, as defined by the LO in the tariff statement. When the government presented its first crisis package, which primarily hit the workers by sending them the bill for the lay-offs, they were met by the Stortinget with a number of important measures for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed during that period, not least the decision on 80 pst. in the case of income up to about 300000 kroner. That decision means that the Storting agreed that the daily allowance was too low and that they had to get up. If everyone agreed that there was too low a daily allowance level when many became dependent on the scheme, it also means that the rates were initially too low. For each individual's economy, there is no difference between losing a job because the state is shutting down society or losing a job for other reasons. That is why we believe that these rates should be increased on a permanent basis. There was a group we did not get the government to promise, namely those who were unemployed before the coronary virus came to Norway. In March 2020, there were about 100,000 people, so they last line up to get a new job and are subjected to quite serious discrimination. They still get 62.4 pst. in cash. This cannot continue. Red has many times suggested that all unemployed people should receive 80 pst. in cash, up to 3G, and the longer this crisis lasts, the less meaning it is in distinguishing between those who were free before the Corona, and those who became unemployed after. All those who are unemployed are part of the same labour market in crisis, and the need for the so-called low pay supplement on the day-to-day payments, as we decided in the Stortingen one year ago, shows that the safety net was too weak before the crisis hit us. The unemployed have had to cope with 62.4 pst. in cash under both blue and red-green governments. There is nothing new that it is difficult to pay for current expenditure when you go down almost 40 pst. in income. A recent Nav report says that the crisis will lead to extensive exclusion from work, and Nav believes that we will have an unusually high level of unemployment at least by the end of 2022. It is appropriate to warn the government already now: Do not tell us that the crisis is over when the majority have received vaccines. Everything suggests that the crisis in the economy – and therefore the crisis for workers – will last for many years. Red therefore suggests that the increase in the level of early pay should be made permanent, because when performance needs to be improved during a period of high unemployment, it shows that performance was initially too poor. We also believe that the minimum income for a day's pay must be halved on a permanent basis, and that those who have small job breaks, who may not have a fixed job, also have a permanent safety net. Nav Director Hans Christian Holte said to Today's Business yesterday that they have received many applications for a day's money from people who work in the goods trade, and that in this industry many young people work who have a part-time job and often are not entitled to a daily allowance. So the official figures don't catch all of the people who are now losing their jobs in the trade in goods in the East, so the situation is actually worse than the statistics tell us. Involuntary part-time, ring-watches and small contracts are widespread in both the public and private sectors and in many different sectors, and this group also needs to be secured when they lose their jobs. If you have low wages or low job breaks, you are particularly vulnerable when your income falls away. We therefore propose that the requirement for previous income in order to receive daily allowances should also be halved on a permanent basis. People need to be guaranteed income, whether there is a coronary crisis or other problems in the world of work. We must also not just talk about workers; we must also listen and take their everyday lives seriously, for example. what employees in the hotel and restaurant industries now say. Djevat Hisenaj, head of the department of the Joint Union for these Western industries, said as clearly as this: ‘Hotel and restaurant staff are completely dependent on today’s corona agenda. Now they are free to live below the poverty line.’ There is a special situation when the state shuts down society in the short term, but for the unemployed there is no fundamental difference. You can't afford better if you lose your job for reasons other than the Korona. Among the low-paid in our country, most have low education, many of them have no permanent employment, and they have to fight to get new commitments and contracts. This group is left to the rawest part of the labour market. They, together with the trade unions, have a long fight for permanent employment and a wage to live off. Our job as elected representatives is to make it easier for people and trade unions to meet their demands and provide them with economic security in work and in unemployment. We must not believe in those who say that the crisis is soon over. Yes, some businesses will probably start making money again, but many workers will have to sell assets, cut the necessary purchases and ask for help from friends and family for a long time to come. It is alarming when the debt collection company Lindorff reports a sharp increase in the number of debt collection cases. A recent version of the Lindorff analysis shows a clear increase in the number of households that do not pay regular costs they normally pay, such as: electricity and telecommunications services. This suggests that many have received less advice during the pandemic, as Director Siv Hjellegerde Martinsen in Lindorff says in a press release. The housing prices increased by 5 pst. only in January of this year. The stock market goes at the same time so it laughs and is on a record high level, and many make good money on shares now. The luxury market is also taking off. We live at a time when the differences between people are increasing sharply. Then it is our task, we believe, in a situation of rapidly increasing differences in society, to meet it with political action to stop that development. The government has met the crisis with, among other things: to throw thousands out of the daily allowance scheme and the AAP. After pressure from Red and the rest of the opposition, they had to turn – long overtime – and extend the maximum time, but only for those who are on daily pay. The question is, how can we have a system that throws people out of the paycheck or the AAP without any kind of income insurance or job or education? We must combat unemployment, not the unemployed. People don't get into work by getting poor enough. Ensuring everyone's work and income is a public responsibility. That's why we're asking: Will the Council of State take the initiative to strengthen the day-to-day arrangements on a more lasting basis and for all unemployed people in order to ensure predictability and security for ordinary workers, and not least for their families?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3284	First: Thank you to the representative of the Moxnes for the interpellation. Let me start by saying what I fully agree with, and as I have said several times before, that we must not fool ourselves into the notion that at the moment the last vaccine is set, the economic crisis is automatically over. There are several reasons for that, and one of them is that we are a small and export-oriented economy. 50 pst. Of what we produce from goods and services, we export, so the situation in the world economy has extremely much to say for a country like Norway, not least for our manufacturing and export businesses, but also because it can have long-term consequences for travel. It could be that people's travel patterns change. There's a number of things that make this take longer. I also fully agree that economic crises risk creating greater exclusion, in other words that people fall out. It is either the result of a local economic crisis, for example. a cornerstone enterprise that is shut down, or a national or international economic crisis, causes a certain proportion of those who fall out of the labour market to be at risk of staying out of the labour market for a long time, i.e. to end up in a more permanent alienation. It's important to say that the government has said two things. We have said that the measures should last as long as the crisis lasts, that is, as long as the pandemic is here, but we have also said that it is very important that the measures follow that phase out. There are several different reasons, but one important reason is that there is a difference between what is right and sensible in a crisis when, for example, we are dealing with. will keep people away from work, at least in periods, and what must be done when we're going to get the wheels started. It is also worth noting that if we look at Norway in comparison with the countries around us, we are now relatively good, both economically and not least in terms of infection rates. At the same time, the pandemic and the coronary crisis show that we have a good social safety net. It's not always the social security network was laser-set to deal with a pandemic, a unique situation in post-war history in Norway – in history before the war, too, you probably have to go back to the Spanish disease to find something similar – but nevertheless, our broad, basic welfare systems, as day money and care days, have proved to be very good. I'm not going to go out on a finer interpretation of what a unanimous biging, including the government parties, decided related to the daily allowance, but I think – and what I heard and at least agree that was some of the Storting's reasons – that there are some differences in this and a normal situation. The big one's reasoning, or let me make it my reasoning, is that it is not because it is less bad or serious to be unemployed under the corona than otherwise. It's always hard to lose your job. Nor is it the case that day money is particularly high, rather on the contrary. It is to be expected that the daily allowance is involuntarily. There is no – at least a few – volunteering into unemployment. Day money is one of our lowest benefits, 62.4 pst. And then there's a children's supplement there, too. The difference is that if someone loses the job in many normal situations, one will, for example, have a notice of termination. Although the job may be lost as a result of an economic crisis, — at least often — there will be some predictability. In the oil industry, the oil price does not fall from Tuesday to Wednesday. It may fall from January to February, and in particular it may fall from Tuesday to Wednesday as well, but the point is that it often takes a little longer, and as an employee you know a little more what is coming. The situation that came in March/April was slightly different. It wasn't because we didn't know about the pandemic, it had been with us for a long time, but because Norway shut down. It was sudden, over two days. There was no notice period or an employer's period of three months in which you are paid. Too many people, it was a very rough cover. It is clear that with two employer days, the decline in income is even faster. That's why there was a reason to do something about the day-to-day pay system. Of course, it is quite possible to think as the representative of Moxnes believes, that we should do this not only for all those who are unemployed now – there is one comment – but that we should do this for everyone in any case, consistently, that we should generally have a higher daily allowance. Then it is worth remembering that the daily allowance scheme has a two-part purpose. The first is that the daily allowance is intended to ensure temporary income for persons who have lost the job, but the scheme should also be designed to motivate beneficiaries to seek employment actively, as it is called. In short, it's worth your while to work. It's a foundation for all our welfare systems. It should simply be such that there must not be too much or too little difference between being at work and not being at work. So you could say, how does it happen if you get 80 pst? of its revenue up to a certain number of G? 4G is the Red suggested. There are also costs related to being at work, e.g. travel costs for a part. In Nav we have a demand to be a geographical mobile, as it is called. You have to take a job even if it is not located in your municipality or in the neighbouring municipality. All of this suggests that we need a system that has a certain difference between the benefit on salary and the benefit on day payments. Day payments provide partial coverage for lost labour income and are intended to be a security, but are not intended to replace the entire income gap in the case of unemployment. It's a kind of insurance scheme. It is also worth noting that if you want effective measures to avoid poverty and exclusion, a permanent increase in the daily allowance is hardly a particularly effective, good or accurate way to do so. What I've been most concerned about, besides people getting their benefits, is doing what we can already do now to prevent long-term unemployment. One of the most important interventions related to this is the lifting of the previously very strict distinction between going on a daily allowance and being able to take education or training measures. We know it's a very clear relationship, how long-lasting high unemployment increases the probability of both losing motivation, understandably, and the chance of getting back to work. The fact that several people can fill the daily allowance period with a content that also makes an even a little more attractive as an employee, either one should return to his company or seek a new job is extremely important. We've done it now during the corona period, so that one, for example. shall be able to take the letter of formal notice which has not been received. But these are also changes – albeit not exactly the same way – we are planning to make permanent. It is important to counteract long-term exclusion. In addition, it is important that, when the labour market is poor, the tools we have are: 850 million. kr to several action sites, more money for Nav to follow up. As I said, I can understand that many of those who became unemployed before the coronary apex came, think it unfair if they think the Stortinget has made a decision that says that their unemployment is worth less. That's not the point. I rather think that there was a unanimous biging busy, was that the Korona was a very special situation, which also made it to lose the job or get a permit, came faster. As I said, there was no notice period for the persons on leave. The size has always been very clear that this is a temporary arrangement. I think that's good reason why it should be, and that we should make sure that while the measures last for as long as the pandemic lasts, they also have to be phased out. Of course, it also has one side of us having a lot of things we want to prioritise over the public budgets of the years to come, and then we can't spend money on everything. We must also give priority to the things we think are most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3318	With regard to priorities, it is tempting to point to the government's tax cuts for the rich, but I can leave it for this time and rather stick to what is the theme. Our point is that the crisis has shown with all manner of clarity that the level of daily allowances has been too low, not least for those who have low wages. We get stories from many who are trade-unioned, who tell how the crisis has hit them, and how little they would have to go with if we had kept the usual level of the daily allowance. If the daily allowance is cut again, from 80 to 62.4 pst, it means for those who have earned around 3G, about 4400 gross dollars per month. With the usual low rate you will get approx. 15 600 gross per month. With the 80 percent, the low pay supplement that the Stortinget introduced under the corona, you'll get $200,000. It's about over 4000 dollars less a month to live for if you cut back to what was the level before the corona. That's why Djevat Hisenaj in the Joint Association said it so clearly that employees in the hotel and restaurant industries are completely dependent on today's corona arrangement for daily allowances. Now they're free to live below the poverty line. So it's true that it's especially when it's like the state shuts down society in the short term. That's right. But what we also know, at least according to recent Nav reports, is that this crisis will last for a long time, and that unemployment is likely – and unfortunately – to persist for a longer time. That's the starting point for the discussion about the level of the daily allowance. It's worth working, we don't disagree, but it'll be very difficult to find a job in the coming years. Many people will work hard with this. If, in a certain period of time, the low wage supplement is reversed and removed from the daily allowance, it means, in practice, that we put low wages in such a situation after the Korona crisis that they end up below the poverty line when they go on daily pay. I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's a worthwhile situation, and whether he doesn't see that especially for the low-paid, it's absolutely vital that this supplement be extended, not least because we've uncovered huge gaps and weaknesses through the crisis, which we should learn for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3333	I think at least there's good reason to think that we're going back to the normal situation. The goal is not to keep unemployment high, the goal is to get the wheels started and get people back to work. What we also know is that as many people receive vaccination and we are able to keep the infection low, the measures of infection will be facilitated. Then it's going to happen the same thing that happened on the summer. Although we now have a very high unemployment rate, over 200,000 – higher than during the financial crisis and the oil price drop – it is nevertheless more than halved since the dramatic weeks of March–April, so we know that very many people will return to work very quickly, especially in the sectors that have been most vulnerable. The aim is also to get as many healthy businesses as possible through this. When I say something about the normal situation, it's because I can see in myself that for Red, this is really a position they've always had. Red thinks that the daily allowance should be higher. Then you can ask the question about e.g. redundancy allowance or disability benefit, the latter being 66 pst. - It's a misunderstanding, isn't it? It's no longer voluntary to get so sick that you can't work. But it's consistent in itself if you're in a party that thinks that all these benefits should be much higher, and that's as far as I know Red's policy. I think that there are good reasons why we have stuck to this system through both the financial crisis and the fall in oil prices – but not necessarily that the daily allowance is the lowest of them all. That's a good reason why we've prioritised what we've done through different governments with different colors. I think that some of the things that are dangerous to us now aren't this single thing in itself, but what's a problem for the country is if we can't take back the corona measures as people come back to work -- not only because some of the measures can make us start to get people back to work later, but also because the future doesn't get priority free. Rather on the contrary, there are going to be tighter budgets and less room for priorities even after you have increased the tax on ordinary people and the rich, which you always push in front of you when ordinary people get higher taxes. But I'm not going to go any closer to that since the representative of Moxnes was so polite that he didn't elaborate on his point. It is the overall assessment that makes me agree with what was the reason of the Storting, that these are temporary measures, just justified in this exceptional situation, but that it is not right to continue it or extend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3344	The Korona crisis has shown us that we are totally dependent on having a welfare state that gives people security when they lose their income. Giving people security for work, and working, is one of the main issues of the Workers' Party. The goal must be to get people able to get back to work, but the crisis has made it very demanding, and we see that people are going longer off now than before. When we see how unemployment has increased in the last few days, and see that the distance between job vacancies and those that are available is very large, that means that the crisis is not over, and that we have to think in the long term about the arrangements we have. The crisis is not a common vacancy situation. It was the authorities that shut down. The first government suggested when they shut down was that the employer period should be cut to two days. At the same time, the alert period was also cut to two days. It meant that a lot of people got much less overnight, and it hadn't been for the initiatives that, among other things. The working party was behind here in Stortinget, people would have much less to walk with. For us in the Workers' Party, it has been important to ensure a balance between the burden that workers have put on this crisis and the employers and businesses are taking. I have to say that I think it is unheard of when I now see that companies collect about as much dividends as they have received from the state in support of the crisis. It's a cross of thought, and it shows that the balance might not be exactly what it should be. We have said that the arrangements we have must last as long as the crisis lasts. We thought maybe before Christmas that we saw the light in the tunnel, but there's always a tunnel coming after, I've learned, and we're probably there now. When we say that the arrangements must last as long as the crisis lasts, it's not because we believe that businesses are going to permite people longer than necessary, or that people will seek to be unemployed longer than necessary, but we think it's important because we can then use the workbook in a better way, manage to use the schemes that are with rolling permits, that you can be partially licensed etc., when we have a more long-term perspective, and that people don't start thinking about cancelling people already now. It is therefore surprising that the government will not go beyond 1 July in terms of providing both businesses and people with more predictability. It's quite true, as the council said in its statement, that when the corona came, we tried to distinguish who was available because of the corona, and who was available because of more common structural conditions. But then we didn't think the crisis would last that long. Now there are many people who have gone free for a long time, who do not come under the scheme that we introduced at a higher rate for those who have revenues up to 3G. That's why we think we need to think about that particular group. They have at least, and they've gone a long time. In the proposal currently under consideration in the Labour and Social Committee, we will propose that those who have been unemployed for a long time, those who do not have unemployment benefits from the corona, also benefit from the same 80 pst. I want to remind everyone in the room today that if we introduce holiday money supplements on the daily allowance, it will mean too many. This will improve the system, and there will be many of those who earn the least and have the lowest income, who will benefit from getting a holiday supplement in place. So that's the future, and then I think we should always listen to the trade union movement, what they think about the arrangements. I think it makes sense that we're looking at whether the arrangements are going well enough. We've seen it in terms of education, we've seen it in terms of how we can use rolling platforms, we've seen it in terms of how much you have to be away from work, but for the Workers' Party it will always be that there must be arrangements that make it pay to work. In the end, I would like to say that if we are to get all those who are now out of work, back to work, we have to bet far more on the offers that Nav can give people in order to gain more competence. We have to step up our efforts so that more people come back to work and don't go off for so long.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3363	There is no doubt that the ongoing pandemic is very demanding for the Norwegian economy. It affects many industries, jobs and not least workers. In the last year, we have seen the value of private business and Norwegian jobs on the one hand and a well-functioning welfare state on the other. I really fully agree with the interpellant that we should use the experience of the crisis to review and evaluate benefits and mechanisms to continuously change and improve the facility of our welfare state. But I do not agree with the premise that the performance has generally been too poor. Researchers at the Development and Environment Centres at the University of Oslo have followed the management of the coronary apathy in different countries, and they suggest three reasons why Norway has succeeded in spite of everything: good welfare schemes, a strong public health system and high trust in the authorities, which the government has provided. The Norwegian welfare state has mainly provided safety and predictability to ordinary workers throughout the pandemic, perhaps with the exception of the delays caused by the many and simultaneous changes of the Storting. The day-to-day arrangements are very important to ensure workers during periods of inactivity, regardless of the crisis. It also makes demands for active job search and follow-up and is both an income insurance and a work policy tool to help people get back to work. Under a global, deadly pandemic, where society shuts down, it goes without saying that day money acts more like an income hedge than the temporary arrangement between jobs it is supposed to be. Increased compensation levels in the daycare scheme were introduced almost overnight by the Stortinget, without evidence that it is a good or targeted tool to ensure people's sustainable work and income, which must be the goal. We have to make sure that it can function as an income hedge for the unemployed between two jobs, to allow temporary changes to be permanent in order to remedy a crisis when we return to normal or are on the way out of the crisis, can erode and extend arrangements so that they no longer function as they were supposed to. The goal must be to get people back to work quickly. This morning I heard the Institute of Public Health say that most will have been vaccinated in the summer, and that all over 18 years will have been vaccinated in September. Extending and in this context also eroding the arrangements until 1 October or making permanent changes can, in the worst case, hamper migration and also prolong the crisis, and I believe that nobody is interested in that. Day money is a very good tool for those who have had a strong connection to the working life, those who have worked a lot and are self-employed to get back to work. In a normal year, about 80 pst. by the recipients back to work by the end of the year. This suggests that the day-care system normally works well and provides safety and predictability to ordinary workers. But, as I said, there may be reason to see whether there is a need to make changes in both the day-to-day and other benefits in the cooling water of the pandemic. However, it is not certain that temporary measures introduced during a period of crisis, without looking at how they work, and without looking at the long-term effects of a normal time, should become permanent when we are going back to or in the normal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3376	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Moxnes, for raising the gap. I am pleased with all the debates and interviews on employment issues, and especially those focusing on unemployment. It's our biggest challenge today. The interpellant refers to what Nav-chef Hans Christian Holte has said, namely that there is good evidence that economic downturns contribute to increased permanent retirement from working life and long-term weakened living conditions for those affected. It's like those who had the weakest connection to the world of work before the crisis came, now it's the most difficult thing, because they're going down even further in terms of the ability to get income-bearing work. Interpellation raises two main questions. That's how we think about full employment and the fight against unemployment in the long term, and the short term benefits. In the case of day-to-day benefits, only those who have daily allowances of 80 pst are allowed to do so. of previous income up to 3G. This does not apply to the unemployed. The centre party disagreed – and disagreed – that it should not apply to both the outsourced and the unemployed. We therefore proposed in our alternative state budget an increased rate of daily allowance, also for those who were unemployed. 80 pst. until 3G is important and correct. As the representative of Moxnes said, this represents for those with an income base of NOK 300000, approx. $4,400 per month, that's either $20,000 or $15,600. There's a lot of money when you're in that income group. The instruments that were put in place in connection with the pandemic were part of a whole, which several people have been involved in. There has been a balance between the interests of employees and employers. What is the fact today, as has also been said, is that the unemployment and the lay-offs will last longer than the pandemic itself. So we're in a situation where long after we have control of the pandemic, whenever we get it, we're going to be in a critical situation with a lot of people out of work and maybe even out of work. So it's going to be a poster, and so the center part goes in to keep 80 pst. So far, and that we will later discuss the situation of daily allowances and what is right to do. But I would like to stress that the daily allowance rates must be seen in the future in the context of other benefits, for example. benefits on redundancy benefits. The most important measure in terms of what the interpellant travels is how we can increase the demand for workers. It is also labour supply and demand. It's having income-intensive work that's both the wish of the interpellant and the wish of the Center Party here. Then we need to increase the demand for labour in Norway. This means increasing the demand for workers living in Norway. They are the ones for which the Norwegian big business is responsible; they are the ones for which our government should focus – how we can create safe conditions for those who have their business in Norway. Business policy is of course important, but as we were in the debate with the Council of State yesterday, there are also questions about how we organise the labour market. It is the Central Party slogan that we need to control labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries, because we need to have control of the labour market in Norway, so that we ensure the balance between supply and demand. In particular, it is important for the weakest groups in the labour market. That's why it's important that this is discussed further. To all those who speak strong and warm and good for them like, for example, now work is completed through redundancy pay to have a partial working capacity: the group with 51-90 pst. The ability to work is at least what we need to focus specifically on and try to get into work. If not, the Nav system after each knee, because one does not demand the many as an investigator for work, and does not get disability benefits. These are important questions, so thank you for the interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3395	I'm going to admit first that this with keeping the 80%, i.e. the low-wage supplement, on a permanent basis, is something we haven't really thought about before the crisis, but then we've talked to many people who have been affected by this crisis, not least the hotel, restaurant and outdoor industry, who have told us how crucial it has been for them to get through these months. For the low-paid, going back to the old low rate could mean being below the poverty line. We have learned something from the crisis, and in my view, the government should also do that. The most basic thing here, I think maybe they don't want to learn from. We see, for example: In today's Business today, we have not been given a single new intensive care facility in hospitals in the last year, nor will it be considered to extend a system that has been absolutely essential to ensure the security of tens of thousands of people and their families throughout the last year. Well, drawing lessons from the crisis is what we're trying to do with our proposal. Then we see that the consequences of the crisis are going to last a long time. There are also quite daunting numbers in terms of long-term unemployment. According to Nav, there will be an unusually high level on it for a long time in the future, at least until the end of 2022. For some industries, such as The aviation industry, it will take even longer before they get up again, and it concerns far more than those who work in the airlines themselves. There are about 20,000 employees on the Gardermoen who work on the ground – tax-free, mechanics, administration, weights, etc. – which will be affected for many years by the consequences of the coronary crisis. Then we've also seen the last 20 years that crises are getting pretty close. It was the Asia crisis in 1997, it has been the IT crisis, the financial crisis, the oil crisis and the Korona crisis. The heavy expenditure caused by the corona, and the extreme debt around the world, means that we are going to have more large and small debt crises in the economy in the future, and that means that unemployment will affect different industries, regions and age groups in Norway in the future. Then we must strengthen our safety net so that we can meet the challenges together, because we do not believe that workers and low wages should take the bill for the economic crises. I would like to conclude by asking whether the Council of State agrees that it is just as bad to have very bad advice as unemployment regardless of what caused a lost job, and whether he agrees with the prediction that unemployment will remain high for a long time to come, and that therefore there is a need for a permanently reinforced safety net for workers who lose their jobs, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3408	No matter why you lose your job, it's just as bad. I told you, it has something to say about your own situation and how it is for yourself, for the family, to pay the bills, for the financial liabilities, for the uncertainty. Some people also get the feeling that they are not needed in society suddenly — at least it can be reported at any rate. It's just as bad anyway. There is, however, a difference in substance, and several of the things have been mentioned in this debate – there is a difference in substance when the state shuts down. Now it's not the state that decides for it, it's because of a pandemic. There's also a difference between what we know is part of the economic system that most people, in this room at least, think that essentially serves us well; it's sometimes rise and sometimes decrease. There may be differences from industry to industry, and there may be fluctuations — there may be a situation that is coming abruptly, and how many then almost overnight are being permitted. It's important to say – it was probably a delay, but it's just that it's quite clear: everyone who got a permit or was unemployed after March 20th is under the same rules. There's no distinction between permissions and others. The question is whether you are applying for a day’s money – that’s the same law. Then I would like to say that I agree with the representative Lundtägen on my own that there is an important question of how to increase demand in the labour market. I guess we've established several laps that we're probably a little bit in disagreement with the solutions to that. I do not think it is particularly beneficial for the sum of jobs in the long term to start to have a different type of labour immigration regulation – in practice leaving the EEA and creating some kind of quota system there as well. I think the key is that we have to admit that for a lot of employees -- it's not about the majority of people receiving daily pay, but for many of those with one foot inside and one foot outside -- the key is to have an active policy where we go in with a much more wage subsidy. You pay what's kind of the difference between one that can deliver 100 pst. all the time, if there are such workers, and one who may need a more organized job. Finally, it's absolutely right that there has been a discussion. The government considered that it was not right now to extend these benefits until 1 October, but that it would be assessed later. The payment has decided to extend it until 1 October. Budgetary decisions and legislative decisions remain, but everything is ready to do so, so that conclusion is not uncertain. We're assuming that the majority doesn't change their mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3421	That is when the debate is on case No. 8 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-04.ana.ud342e3435	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
