ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e144	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be closed during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Bjørn Moxnes applied for a health leave on Tuesday 11 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Seher Aydar, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e166	Seher Aydar is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e186	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e202	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e218	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e225	As rapporteur, I would like to present the Committee's position. The following proposals are made by the representatives of Siv Jensen, Sylvi Listhaug, Jon Engen-Helgheim and Silje Hemdal: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national ban on the use of hijab in kindergarten and primary school.’ The Minister for Knowledge and Integration delivered an opinion on the proposal in a letter to the Committee received on 9 March. An overall committee indicates that the Ministry of Justice has established that it follows from the principle of legality that a ban on the use of hijab in school must be based on the law or other basis of competence. The Committee assumes that the same requirement must apply to the prohibition of hijab in kindergarten. In 2010, the Ministry of Justice’s law department considered that the provisions of the Training Act did not provide the basis for a general ban on hijab in school. The Committee otherwise refers to the government's reinforced efforts to combat negative social control. The Labour Party wants children growing up in Norway to have equal opportunities. Therefore, we will remove obstacles to children being able to take an active part in school hours. Many employees who work with children are uncertain about what to do in situations where children wear hijab. We believe that this uncertainty should be removed. The working party will make it easier for teachers to have good, trust-based conversations about the use of religious headgear and provide teachers with tools to deal with issues related to coercion and the use of religious headgear. We want the school to have close dialogue with parents in situations where there is reason to believe that there is pressure behind the use of certain garments. In the event of a suspicion of coercion, we will develop common guidelines on how the school should handle the use of hijab in primary school. It must be severely forced and the school must notify child protection if there is a suspicion of coercion. All schools shall have access to minority counsellors, where they may seek advice. The Labour Party will otherwise acquire research and knowledge on the use of headgear and other religious symbols on children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e249	I record that the committee acknowledges that the use of hijab in high school can be a problem, but I also record that the majority does not want to do anything about that problem, at least not to impose a hijab ban. There's talk of inclusion, that we need an inclusive school. I think everyone agrees. But hijab doesn't create inclusion. Hijab is involved in excluding students. We have seen many cases and statements in that discussion in Norway. I saw a principal in Oslo school who was out there and said that he saw no problem with children using hijab, although he also acknowledged that there was a degree of pressure inside the picture. We've seen NRK especially run a number of closest campaign-like issues to normalize the use of hijab. A lot of people say that children choose to go with hijab on their own. I have no faith in that. Even I grew up in a religious community where it was normal – the girls were imposed, it was an expectation pressure – that the girls should wear skirts and laces. If you asked some of them, they always said they chose it. But everyone around knew there was a big expectation press behind it. Young girls who are subjected to a strong expectation pressure need adults around who take responsibility. I am absolutely sure that young girls who are pushed to go with hijab, would have seen adults take that burden from them rather than be part of a normalization – or as in this case, calling it some kind of inclusion. A study from 2018 shows that 65 pst. by the citizens want a ban on the use of hijab in school, and I think that is a reason. In other words, politicians are indifferent to the people. I don't think that's so strange, because politicians are often very afraid to tackle problems that can be unpleasant, and this can be an unpleasant problem to address. But I am absolutely sure that we had then stretched out a hand to very many young girls who want only one thing: remove the pressure that I must wear a garment I have not chosen myself. Had the ban been introduced, the pressure would have ended. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e264	The representative Jon Engen-Helgheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e269	The centre party joins in the comments made by the rapporteur on the matter, who presented the matter in a good manner. There is no doubt that kindergarten and school are some of the most important common arenas we have, and that young people should feel welcome and included there, regardless of their background. There shall be a common arena in which the freedom of expression of the individual is respected and where parental rights are respected. At the same time, there is also a common arena where social control is to be prevented, especially for girls. In some cases, the use of children’s hijab may result from social control and coercion, which is challenging and problematic. But it is certainly not all problems solved by imposing a ban. It may be that one can prevent and solve a problem of both having a dialogue with the bosses, and also having a clearer and clearer dialogue between home and school. It is also possible to have common guidelines on how to deal with that type of situation. It sees the centre party as a better way to go than to introduce a clean ban that will apply to the whole country, which does not take into account that there are very different conditions in different parts of the country. The centre party has also stressed the fact that the department considers that it is not the basis of today’s training law to introduce a general ban on hijab in school and that there is a barrier to a ban in itself. Then we should try other things instead. Then we should try a reinforced effort against those cases that can actually be associated with pressure or coercion to ensure that an individual lives in line with family standards that are not lucky. I rather think it's a way to go in the first place, instead of imposing a general ban. A general ban on headgear or religious symbols or that kind of thing is not really a tradition in Norway. There is more tradition in other countries, more secular countries than Norway, such as Norway. France It's actually something that's a little bit distant from a Norwegian society. We have gone a long way in allowing different symbols, including religious ones, in different ways, but it should not be associated with either social control or coercion. Then there are other ways to proceed than to implement a general ban, which the Progress Party here wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e282	I'll be quite brief, because I think the speaker before me, the representative Arnstad, had very good points. The school shall be a safe and good place for all. The school shall have rooms for all students — an important common arena, as the representative Arnstad referred to it as. We in SV want to fence around the primary school, a school where all children are equally welcome, regardless of economic or religious or non-religious background. We believe it is a strength that all children go to the same school and participate in the community and the diversity they meet elsewhere in society. Prohibiting hijab could be seen as a sign that the primary school is not a safe and inclusive place for all children, and it is not a signal SV wants to give any children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e291	I'm going to be brief and really just refer to what the case rapporteur said here at the beginning of the case, and put me behind it. There's a good thing about what's in the majority remarks here. At the same time, I want to take the floor to also promise that this is a disappearing little problem, and I think it's important that we remember ourselves a little bit about the legal limitations that have been attached to the prohibition we have in teaching in terms of face-to-face clothing. Because even if you're talking about hijab – when you're going to start talking about a ban, you have to create a legal framework for this, which is very complicated, and which makes this not a simple legal case. Since we're now talking about predominantly young children, the relationship that you have with young children is closer to your parents, maybe just that arena, of all, who are involved in ensuring good integration into Norwegian society through dialogue. For through the dialogue, rather than prohibition, this conversation – this training – is about Norwegian culture and Norwegian expectations, which means that information and knowledge about these norms are exchanged. In that way, I think you'll be able to get a more inclusive sharing between the children, the parents and not least the adults who are going to follow the kids, whether they're in a kindergarten or in a high school. So I just want to stress again what I said in the introduction: luckily, this is a disappearing little problem, and that's why the dialogue is so important in the few cases that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e302	The Training Act does not provide the basis for a general ban on hijab in school. I am pleased that the Council of State is also clear that a general ban on childcare facilities and primary schools is not a suitable instrument to combat negative social control. We have to fight that in other ways. Barnehijab should be avoided for young children, and I am concerned that a ban could contribute to the school and kindergarten not being experienced as a safe and inclusive place for all children and for all students. It's serious. The school should, and must, be an inclusive place for all students. It is important to provide children with knowledge that contributes to their self-determination and to combating attitudes in practice that are intended to restrict their freedom. We're concerned that a ban on hijab can give the opposite. That's why it's so incredibly important that we use other tools to provide security, to provide support, to include and to integrate, and then dialogue and knowledge are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e311	We know that in some cases hijab is used as a tool for parents' negative social control over girls, and there are many who believe that the intrusion of children's obvious religious symbols is unfortunate. Nevertheless, I believe that a general ban on children using hijab in kindergarten and primary school is not a suitable tool to combat negative social control. On the contrary, such a ban could help to ensure that kindergarten and school do not experience safe and inclusive places with rooms for all children. A kindergarten and a school that can gather all children is the most important tool we have for negative social control of children. The kindergarten and school should, and must, be inclusive for all. It is important to provide children with knowledge that contributes to autonomy and the ability to make their own choices and to combat attitudes and practices intended to restrict children’s freedom. A ban on hijab means I can lead to the opposite of what we want. I would also point out that a ban on hijab in kindergarten could lead to some families choosing not to let their girls go to kindergarten. It would be a very unfortunate effect of the ban and go out on the girls who need kindergarten and school as a haven in everyday life from negative social control. The government has reinforced its efforts to combat negative social control. These include: by strengthening the scheme of minority school counselors. There are now 51 minority advisors, located in all counties of the country. Minority advisors help students who are subjected to negative social control and contribute with competence on the problem of school, teachers and others who meet children and young people in their working life. We have also created the Nora web portal, which is operated by the IMDi. It provides information on rights and help to vulnerable young people. In 2021, the government will also present a new action plan on freedom from negative social control and honour-related violence. In 2010, the Justice Department assessed whether there is a general ban on the use of hijab in school. The Legal Department assessed whether the provisions of the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child precluded the prohibition of the use of hijab in Norwegian public schools. The law department concluded that there was uncertainty about a ban on the use of hijab in Norwegian schools would be contrary to the EMK and other provisions of international human rights conventions. However, the Legal Department concluded that a ban on the use of hijab in school is in any case subject to the law. Since 2010, the Constitution has been amended. I am not familiar with the case-law of the EMD after 2010 which is relevant to the proposal of the representatives. In a 2017 opinion, the Legal Service argues that the protection of freedom of religion by the Constitution, following the changes made in 2012, is likely to go beyond the amendments, and that the rule of the Constitution must be understood and applied in the light of Articles 9 and 18 of the ECHR and Article 18 of the ECHR. I believe that a general ban on children using hijab in kindergarten and primary school is not a suitable tool to combat negative social control. We have to do that in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e334	I registered that the Council of State said that if a ban was introduced, it could be counterproductive and lead to alienation and less inclusion. I also see that the Council of State has answered the committee in a letter. But I don't see any references to where you have that information from. What are the studies or technical grounds for saying that a ban on hijab will have the opposite effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e339	Since we have not tried a ban on hijab in Norway, it is difficult to carry out some empirical investigation of it. But what we know is, among other things, The consequences of shutting down schools and kindergartens, which we unfortunately had to do last year. What we saw then was that very many of them, for example. address minority advisors seeking support in various relief measures they meet through school, not doing so in the same way, because it was difficult for them to reach out. I think it's pretty obvious that getting an opportunity to be at school and meet people who represent different views, different attitudes than, for example. the family or family in which you grow up is quite important in order to ensure a corrective and to ensure that individuals can choose for themselves – if they do not do it right there and then, so at least in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e344	Then I understand that it is assumed or seen to be counterproductive by imposing a ban on hijab in school, and that there is no professional basis that the Council of State knows about that underpins the argument that has been used as a main argument against introducing it. France introduced this in 2004. You could have learned from them, to see what effects it has had there. There are many people who talk about inclusion in school, and I very much agree with that. I think the school should be an inclusive place. But I also think it would have been nice if the school could be a haven for those students who today are not free to choose what to do. If you feel free, you will also feel included and free to participate in all activities with the other children. Doesn't the Council of State think that we should bet more on school becoming a haven of temptation, even from social control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e351	I think it's an important value in the Norwegian school that kids can actually go dressed just as they like. We don't have a school uniform tradition, and we don't have a tradition of very strict rules for what you can wear. I also think it was quite interesting when the representative in his own post pointed out that he knew of a tradition in which one was required to wear skirts and have laces. The question is why it has not been inserted as a ban, in the representative’s proposal – because it may be an example of negative social control, it may be an example of coercion. If we're going to ban hijab, maybe we should also ban the skirt of all the girls? There may be other examples as well. The question is, how far are we going? And how large does the space for action become for the individual if the big community sits down and defines what garments are okay and not, what garments are religious symbols, what garments are examples of coercion and not? I think it's a pretty impossible task for us as big communities to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e356	I can inform the Council of State that the religious community I've been talking about has ended. They ended because someone took a settlement with it. Some adults responded and said that this was not right, and then you stopped it. I think a lot of young girls are happy about that. But we see that nothing happens to hirabbrication on this front. The use is increasing and increasing, and young girls are becoming victims. The council said she wanted people to go with whatever they want. Yeah, I totally agree with that, but I have a very hard time thinking that going with hijab is what young girls want. It's the community around that will, it's the parents who will. That is why this proposal helps to ensure that young girls can do whatever they want. I heard the representative from the Right say here that this is a disappearing little problem. I don't understand where you have that information. But I want to ask the Council of State if she agrees that coercion and pressure to go with hijab in school is a disappearing little problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e363	Now it's been a long time since I've seen evidence of the prevalence of the use of children's hijab, so I'm going to be careful to express myself very scrupulously about it. But what matters to me is that Norwegian school should be open to absolutely everyone, and that everyone should experience it as an inclusive place – regardless of what you wear, regardless of who your parents are. I am also very concerned that if you experience some kind of shame in using symbols that are important in your culture, important in your family – how will you feel that you are welcome to Norwegian school? The question we should ask is, how problematic is this garment? We have agreed that in educational situations it should not be allowed to wear clothing that covers the face. It is because it hinders teaching. But the question is, if you have a garment that covers your hair, is it an obstacle to learning? Is it an obstacle to being included in school? I mean no, and then I see no reason to forbid it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e368	I think we have a slightly different view of what's the problem here. The problem is not that it is bad to see someone go with hijab, the problem is that we know and can expect that there is a large demand behind it. It is often mentioned in the debate that there are other measures that can help to eliminate the pressure on expectations. I know that minority advisors are often referred to as someone who can help guide, and that's good. Now the number of minority advisors has increased, but the rate of heroin use has also increased. So, except for several minority advisors, what does the Council of State think is an important tool to bring down this use, a different from what a ban would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e375	The important thing for me is not to count how many children are using hijab or not. The important thing is to do what we can to have a free society where people can make free choices and live their lives the way they want. So combating negative social control, broadly, is a high priority, and there we also have to apply a wide range of instruments. Of course, minority advisors are just one of them. One of the most important things is the general integration policy – that we ensure that people living in this country are well integrated into Norwegian society and have the opportunity to make good and informed choices, but also the opportunity to have the freedom to exercise religion, if that is what they want. But I am absolutely sure that the most important thing we can do to ensure that children and young people are well integrated is to make sure that they feel welcome in the Norwegian school, and to make sure that they learn what they can – thus being equipped to make good choices for their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e380	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e387	A few weeks ago in Bergen, I saw a mother with two little girls, who could not have been more than 5 years old, with pink hijab. As the child's adult representative, it actually made me very bad. Unlike the Council of State, I believe that a child who is forced on this garment is too much. This isn't just about social control, it's actually about the sexualization of children. The Progress Party and I believe that this children's hijabe symbolize values that radically break with our basic values in Norway. The garment can be said to be legitimized by Islam as an active action to avoid excavating the luster of the opposite sex. Barnehijaben represents a sexualisation of and a view of children, not least girls, which is simply not compatible with Norwegian law and is perhaps one of the most visible forms of social control in Norway today. That's why it's been a short time since I challenged Minister for Gender Equality Abid Q. Raja just when it was about this in this room. I quote briefly from his answer: ‘But I, as a politician, as a Minister for Gender Equality, as a politician for the Left, and also personally, born and raised in a Muslim family and immigrated in this environment, believe that this garment should not be used on children.’ I find it sad that two councillors from the same party obviously do not agree. I believe that the time for celebrations in action plans and gender equality policy statements is over. Of course, the party agrees that school and kindergarten should be a safe and inclusive place with room for all students. That's exactly why there's reason to stand up for children's freedom from extreme ideologies, which are actually sexualizing young children. Oppression of girls does not belong in Norway. Schools and kindergartens shall also be a haven for those who come from a different culture. I find it disappointing that the Progress Party is once again standing alone today in the fight against the repression of small girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e405	Cemal Knudsen Yüsel, from Turkey, is responsible for the Ex-Muslims of Norway, and he stated that the first time he saw the hijab of a child was when he came to Norway. Turkey has thus been fighting this problem for many years, and he comes to Norway and there he sees that it is allowed and that it flourishes in school. Now we've talked about dialogue year after year. Now I've been on the Stortinget for 16 years, and they talked about dialogue 16 years ago. And long before I came in here, we talked about dialogue with school and home. You've failed. Still, there are speakers after speeches and say the exact same thing: it's just getting dialogue between school and home. Can't you sometimes realize that it doesn't work, and help these little girls to remove this sexualized garment they've been placed on their heads? There's a desperate call out there, which they can't express, but it's our job in this room to help them and accept the shout they come with, which they can't use at home, which they don't get used to in school, and which they don't get used to in their spare time. And then you sit here and you say you don't want to, because you don't want to conquer. That's exactly what you're doing! You conquer everything you can. If you look at the schoolyard compared to 20 years ago, you see the difference. You don't have to make reports at all – you can look out the window, you can see that this happens. We know there's segregation going on. And I know that in the heart of many people sitting here -- there aren't so many here, then -- they also know that, but they won't accept that you can have a law against this that frees these little girls from this garment. I registered that the case rapporteur used the words «carrying hijab» – that means that it is an honorable garment. You go with hijab, and you go with hijab involuntaryly. So please, this hall – help these little girls! I do not understand that it should be so demanding. Forget that it is the Progress Party that proposes this. You don't even have to say that. But can you not be so kind as to understand these girls' problems and the challenges they have? You actually stand for those values, and you keep talking about equality, equality, freedom of expression, but every time there's a problem that's hard, you say no, we can't forbid it. Yes, you can forbid it, because this is the legislative assembly. We're the ones who can forbid it. We're the ones who can help these girls. I actually think you should have a bad conscience if you're not into this, because there are more and more little girls who have to go with this sexualized garment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e417	In debates like this one can choose to have a principle approach, and one can choose to have a pragmatic approach. As for the principle approach, I'm not in doubt about what we should land on. I don't want a society where we prohibit the use of clothing within important institutions, especially for children. I am convinced that this will hinder integration. We have experience from other countries, for example. France, which shows that women have experienced that hijab bans are shutting them off from important parts of society, and that they thus feel that they are not part of French society. I do not want that kind of condition in Norway, and I am absolutely convinced that it is wrong. So the principle approach I believe is that a ban is not the way to go in a society where we value religious freedom and freedom of expression highly. And I'm very surprised that a party based on liberal values does not weigh the importance of both freedom of expression and religious freedom higher than they do in this matter. But then we have the pragmatic approach. I don't think there's any doubt that there's no one in this room who thinks it's a good thing that little girls go with hijab. I haven't heard a single representative say that. The question is what we think works. What do we think is the most effective thing to ensure that these girls get a good life, that they get integrated into society, that they experience free choice? I don't think a ban is the way to go, and I think it's those who want to impose a ban, who have the burden of proof on them – not us who don't want a ban. When it comes to Councillor Abid Q. Raja and I, I think we are in complete agreement on this matter. We do not want the girls to go with the hijab, but we do not want to prohibit it either. And for a liberal party, it's actually quite possible to mean that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e428	I just want to give a small reply to the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who made a point that the case-rapporteur used the words «carrying hijab» as something honourable. Just a little bit of public information: In the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, it says about clothing: ‘Suits are worn on and cover the body.’ So it was in the sense that the words were used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e438	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Education and Research Committee, cases will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e469	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e476	As the rapporteur on both issues, I would like to thank the Committee for its effective work. I want to start by talking about Prop. 137 L for 2020-2021, where there is also an overall committee behind the vote. In the proposal, the government proposes to extend the duration of the provisional laws and a joint committee shares the government's assessment that the persistent unforeseeable disease situation necessitates the extension of the temporary laws in the field of education. It was absolutely necessary to introduce the temporary regulations when kindergartens and schools were shut down over a year ago, and even though it is now towards brighter times and we are more optimistic, we are still not back to normal. Continuous outbreaks of infection mean that kindergartens and schools around the country still need to shut down and tighten up. In this legal process, it is also appropriate to stress that one suggests that laws be passed on without substantive changes. It is important for the Committee to stress that the purpose of the adaptations is to maximise the rights of children, young people and adults, taking into account what can be achieved when they are subject to restrictions on the protection of infection. It is good that the temporary law now clarifies which rules apply, and the Storting will closely follow the government's application of law in the cases. For this reason, it is also a joint committee which stresses that the rules only provide for adaptations as a result of disease protection measures. Although the laws are extended, there is no longer any possibility of deviation beyond what is necessary due to an outbreak of covid-19. In other words, if the infectious disease situation allows, the government would have to repeal the laws before. Although the Introduction Act was replaced by a new Introduction Act, the transitional rules make it necessary to extend the duration of both the temporary law on adaptations to the Introduction Act and the temporary law on adaptations to the Introduction Act. The main features of the schemes are the same in both laws, and it is therefore necessary to extend the duration of both. The Government proposed in the provisional laws that they be repealed on 12 November 2021. The size and overall committee consider that the major choice of the harvest makes it appropriate to extend further the duration of the temporary laws in order to repeal them on 1 December 2021. This will ensure sufficient time for comitology in the re-enlargement of any proposal for further extensions, if necessary. So short to Document 8:217 S for 2020-2021, from SV. There, the Workers' Party shares the representative's concern about the impact this year has on learning. The legislative changes proposed by SV are too time consuming. The Labour Party is more impatient, so we would rather look at proposals and secure enough resources. With that, I address the proposal of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e493	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e498	As can be seen from the settings in the two cases, we all share a concern about the consequences that Norwegian students have to bear from the pandemic. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about when everything comes back to normal, so it is necessary to extend the legal provisions that can remedy the situation and provide some security for the students. A great deal has worked well in the period we have been through, thanks to the efforts of teachers and principals and that the students have adapted to changing forms of education and much uncertainty. But it is also those who have had difficulty dealing with long periods of home education and periods of quarantine that have led to increased absences. We still don't know the full consequences of this and what it means for the students to move on towards a final qualification. Since we don't know, we have to take into account uncertainty and the needs that can come forward. We need to get ready, so that the aftermath of the pandemic does not increase non-response and that many students remain standing without final competence and tickets to work or further study. The Centre therefore agrees with the SV proposers on the need for enhanced rights and measures for students receiving a lack of learning outcomes. But since it's time-critical to get solutions in place, we don't have time to wait for months for legislative changes, as SV's proposal implies. We believe that there is an urgent need for a solution that will have an effect on those students that this spring could risk breaking into a subject, losing their apprenticeship or losing part of their apprenticeship, so that they can't pass the letter. We may well be in the treatment of Report. St. 21 for 2020-2021 comes back to some of those questions, but for the Central Party, there is a expectation that the government will soon come forward with proposals for extended rights, so that even students who are at risk of breaking or losing their place of learning in our day will be guaranteed an extended right to training without recourse to juvenile law. That is why, together with the Workers' Party, we have proposed it, and it is a little strange that no major part of the Biggest will be involved in such a proposal. We can't just focus on what's going to happen in the years to come, we also have to take into account the students who have challenges here and now, and who may be at risk of either a loss of learning space or a lack of exam or breaking down in ours now. We must also be able to include the group in what we propose of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e507	Both the Children’s Ombudsman and a separate expert group of governments have expressed concern that there is much evidence that home schooling reinforces existing differences between students. And both researchers and employees at school agree that shut-down seems to reinforce differences between high-performance students and low-performance students. There is no doubt that social conditions and family resources have had a greater impact on students' experience of learning, well-being and motivation in periods of digital education than they have when students can be at school. In addition, teachers’ organisations report a high level of quarantine-related absence during this school year. Absence due to quarantine or disease can give many of the same negative consequences as those of closed schools. Quarantine numbers in Oslo may indicate that quarantine is socially biased, and that those who may need the most to be at school have repeatedly been quarantined. Many people are at risk of breaking into one or more subjects this spring, as this school year has been special. It worries me, and it should also worry the minister. The government has provided a reform of the law of completion. This right should also apply to the students who have been affected by the Korona. The students who have lived with the red level and digital school for months this school year will not receive this extended court. But this generation of high school students are the ones who are going to need the most completion right. Lost school is a high price to pay for the students. The Community should take the bill. The option for young people who strike in one or more subjects this spring is to register as a private individual. The private school market is fully commercialised, and it costs tens of thousands to register for the courses offered by Sonans or other private schools. We in SV believe that the community must take the bill for the young people who strike in one or more subjects this spring. The government has provided a reform of the law of completion. This right should, as I said, also apply to students who have been affected by the Korona. I am therefore addressing the proposals that SV is behind, and I also announce that we will subsidly support the Centre Party and the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e522	The representative of Mona Fagerås has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e527	I share the concerns of the proposers that there is a wide variation in the learning conditions of students under the pandemic. In the last year, students have not received a school offer as well as in a normal school year. In some parts of the country, students have had long periods of digital home training, and they have experienced much unpredictability in school everyday life as a result of both quarantine and infection prevention measures. An impressive work has been done in all schools and by all teachers in this situation to ensure that unforeseeable day-to-day school and home schooling are as effective as possible for students. But we also see with concern that surveys show that many young people are struggling with motivation and with the structuring of school day, with little mastery and with solitude. The concern for the major differences in student learning conditions during the pandemic must be taken with the greatest seriousness, and the government has done so from day one. The government has paid great attention to introducing measures to enable those who have lost important learning during the pandemic to receive the necessary support and training, and to continue to have a well-updated knowledge base on how the pandemic affects children and young people. Those who have lost important learning during the pandemic shall receive the necessary support and training. Municipalities and county councils have been allocated and will be provided with funds for such measures for several rounds, at the latest in the revised national budget, presented today – measures in school now and in the time to come, and to summer school. A number of measures have been put in place to remedy the difficult situation of high school students in order to complete upper secondary education under the pandemic. Among other things, in 2020 and 2021 the county councils have been provided with extra funding to provide additional training for graduate students with holes in the diploma, where the target audience is persons from the coal who graduated from secondary education in 2020, and the leaving school in 2021, who have lost their right to secondary education without having attained study or professional competence. We're also worried about the apprentices under the pandemic. I am therefore pleased that the government has put in place additional measures for the apprentices. The government has presented the implementation reform. Here the government proposes to remove the time limit for completing secondary education, assess the obligation of county councils to work systematically and preventively with students who are at risk of not being in the profession, and introduce a new right to an apprenticeship or equivalent offer. This requires legislative changes, which will be followed up in the ongoing work of the Training Act. I am pleased to adopt the completion reform in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e542	Infective measures affecting children and young people shall be necessary and proportionate and as far as possible adversely affect their daily lives. Then we know more and more about how important it is for children and young people to be in school, even in times of crisis – yes, perhaps especially then. It is therefore important that the measures taken to slow down and avoid infection go as far as possible beyond children and young people’s opportunities to be both in kindergarten and in school. Everyone in this room today, regardless of party membership, shares the concern for the consequences of both learning, mental health and social contact during and after the pandemic of its children and young people. Therefore, we must continue to follow closely, be proactive, but also dare to be reactive when required. As far as the financial framework is concerned, the government has shown that the local government sector is to be compensated for additional and minor income associated with the outbreak of the virus. This also includes additional costs for schools and the overtime of teachers related to the pandemic. In a situation where there is a high level of exceptional expenditure due to the outbreak of the virus and related infectious diseases measures, it is important that municipalities and county authorities also provide financial facilities for schools to continue to provide good services. It is also an employer's responsibility to ensure that teachers who have to work overtime to provide a good enough offer to students are paid for extra work. Therefore, we are pleased that such an agreement is now in place. In order to meet the exceptional challenges posed by the pandemic, this government has put in place several important measures. A grant has been introduced for the care of young people who have lost their right to secondary education without having acquired study or professional competence. This grant is targeted at those who graduated from secondary education in 2020 and the take-off coal in 2021. The funds may also be used to provide compensatory training for lost education so that they complete secondary education as far as possible. For 2020, 170 million were granted. for measures to enable students to resume lost learning as a result of reduced school provision, and new 250 million. kr now in RNB today. I am pleased with how this government has handled the ongoing pandemic. At the same time, we must not forget that perhaps one of the most important things in the future, after a time when vulnerable students have been left to themselves, is that schools give priority to security and build communities among students and teachers. By one-sided focusing on just taking back the lost without a safe and good learning environment, the prerequisite for good learning will not be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e555	Due to the ongoing pandemic, I propose to continue the temporary laws on adaptations in the Kinderhagen Act, the Training Act, the Free School Act, the Integration Act and the Introduction Act until 10 November 2021. The provisional laws only provide for deviations which are necessary due to infectious measures, so even if the law is extended, no deviation from the ordinary rules will be allowed beyond what is necessary because of the infective situation. I note that the Stortinget proposes 1 December 2021 instead of 10 November 2021, and it appears to be a good solution. There are many who have done and still do a great deal of work to care for children and young people in this difficult period, and I am impressed by what kindergartens and schools do. Local authorities have also made good efforts to support participants in training and introduction programmes at this difficult time. I hope and believe that the extension of the temporary rules provides a stable framework and sufficient flexibility for the good work to continue. So to the proposal for a representative: I share the concerns of the proposers for young people who are at risk of not completing secondary education, and perhaps especially for the apprenticeship situation in specific subjects and in specific parts of the country. However, so far do the figures show, among other things. a review Fafo has done, that we haven't seen an increase in the number of students who leave, but of course it's too early to say anything about the long-term consequences, and I will follow that very closely. I note that the representatives in their proposal refer to the government's announcement of higher education and the government's proposal for extended law. I am pleased that the representatives are impatient and want to introduce several of the measures we propose in the communication, already now. However, several of the proposals require legislative changes. The work on these legislative changes is well under way and is being followed up in the government's work on new training laws. We will send an overall proposal for a new training law at the hearing during the summer and aim to submit a proposal to the Stortinget in time for a new law to come into force at school in August 2023. There is no doubt that many young people have missed important learning as a result of the pandemic. I would like to stress that the government has a lot of attention to put in place measures so that those who have lost important learning during the pandemic can get the necessary support and training. However, it is not primarily about legal regulation, but about how school owners and the state can work together to get children and young people out of the pandemic as best they can. The government has put in place a wide range of measures to address the exceptional challenges faced by children and young people. There are several representatives who have explained earlier in the debate. Among other things, substantial amounts have been allocated for schools to be able to follow-up students who have completed or who leave this spring's secondary education without having acquired study or professional competence. That is to say, in practice, we have already implemented a great deal of the demand from the proposers. Today, the government presented revised national budgets, and there will be further follow-up to the effort to compensate for lost learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e570	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e576	I think we agree quite a lot here, and we will probably also come back to some of the questions related to the completion reform. And I agree with the Council of State's statement that this has also varied different places in the country, but there is no doubt that there are a lot of people in the last six months who have gone out of quarantine, who have had a lot of absence, and who have also had challenges in their learning situation. I hear the Council of State say that there have to be legislative changes and that they have to go to the hearing. But what is actually the recommendation of the Council of State and the government of those who get trouble in June, and who may stand without a diploma in August? What are they going to do with their situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e581	Then I would recommend them to continue at school, and we have given money for that. We have granted money so that the county councils can ensure a training offer for those who do not complete. They are given the opportunity to take the exam free of charge. They can do it during the harvest. Most people will be entitled to a separate, postponed or new exam, which is free of charge. Not only are they entitled to the exam, they also have the right to receive additional training if they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e586	I am pleased that the minister, like the proposal maker from us in SV, is concerned that students who have lived on a red level and with digital school for several months are at risk of being deleted. The option for young people who strike in one or more subjects in the spring is to register as a private individual. The private school market is fully commercialised, and it costs tens of thousands to register — a new class distinction to complete high school. Why does the Minister not believe that these students deserve a right of completion?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e591	What the representative says does not mean correctness, because even if we have not implemented the right to complete the training law, we have secured the county councils the means to give these students a place to school even if they do not pass the exam. Last year we gave a contribution of 150 million. kr just to provide training for graduates with holes in the diploma. The same amount has been granted this year. These are those who have exercised their right without obtaining study or professional competence. The county councils can then either choose to create their own offers, or they can use the money to pay for the private examination for the students who choose to take it – here they are really quite free. But there is no reason for these students to incur expenses. This has been taken into account by the State, and it is important that the county councils follow up and ensure that all the students receive the offer they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e598	I hope the Minister of Knowledge agrees with me that digital school does not have the same quality as the education that students have when they are at school. Many students have not benefited as well from digital education as they do when they are present at school. I'm asking the Minister to think about the desperate students who realize they're going to stand without a diploma or an apprenticeship when this school year is over, and I'm asking the Minister to take more responsibility for these people, so that they don't get out of the system. I hear the minister leaves this responsibility to the county councils, but I had hoped that the minister could take a greater responsibility himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e603	I am very, very uncertain about what more than what we have accomplished now, which is possible to do. It is the county municipalities that operate the school offer, the secondary schools, throughout Norway. They do that in a very good way, and there are many that this year has stretched very far to find people who have lost their rights but who still want to take training. This means that there are quite a number that this school year has received an expanded offer, an offer beyond what they normally have the right to. We set up with funds, we have very close cooperation with the county municipalities. We contribute to the exchange of experience between county councils in order to make it possible for them to make this offer. If it turns out that it has a higher cost than what we have granted, we will also provide more money. So I think we're really doing all we can to give all students an opportunity to complete and pass, and they're not going to experience delays in their education because of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e608	One of the major concerns for some students now is that, because the Council insists on conducting an oral examination, they are not able to take the exam due to local outbreaks. There are now some infections among Russians, refugees, and many will then be in danger of missing their exams. As the Council of State says, the offer is then to wait until later – in such a way that one might even miss the admission to higher education in the autumn. With the development of infection that has occurred, I had hoped that perhaps the Council of State would again look at this with oral exams. Now the government insists on implementing it, but does the Council of State see the need for arrangements to ensure that not many young people miss the admission to higher education in the autumn – due to quarantine?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e613	Although we have had a single outbreak, perhaps particularly related to this age group, infection rates in Norway are declining, with fewer and fewer people becoming infected. The fact that we are now going to cancel things, in a situation where the infection goes down, I think it would be a bit weird. We've been concerned that no one should be delayed in their education through this pandemic. That's why we've also made rules for oral exams that won't happen. If you were to end up being sick or in quarantine on the day of the exam, you would still get a diploma that allows you to apply for admission to further education, but you have to take exams during the fall. If the teacher gets sick and exams cannot be held, you will receive a diploma and do not have to resume your exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e618	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e625	There have been many good speeches, and the Centre shares the concern of the proposers for the impact on students who are receiving poor learning outcomes and high absences as a result of the coronary situation. Students have rarely been in school, and the small thing they have been there has been about testing, testing and assessment in different forms. It's on both the students and the teachers. Since legislative changes are required by the proposals of the proposers, and this will take time, the Centre believes that we need to ensure the introduction of extended rights in addition to the changes provided for in the temporary law, as well as grant schemes for municipalities and counties, so that it will have an impact on the rivers that this spring strikes in the trade or loses the apprenticeship. We have to be able to catch up and follow up all the students, including the privateists, so they don't get too much behind them. That is why the Central Party wants the government to come back soon with proposals for measures on extended rights to ensure that students who do not have a qualification or lose their place of learning in the spring of 2021 are given an extension of their right to training without recourse to juvenile law. I also want to use the opportunity to give the country's teachers and students credit for the efforts they have made this year. The student organization calls it the lost year. We try to listen politically to the needs of people under the pandemic, and promote proposals and measures to relieve the burden of the pandemic. State council says that students who cancel exams can go back to exams at no cost, but it certainly has a practical cost that it is difficult to compensate for purely political. At least we have to be humble about the price the students pay, because it is not possible to settle for.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e636	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e654	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, five lines of reply will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e661	I want to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee and getting a good attitude towards Stortinget. I guess those who represent the minority, and who have their own special comments, will explain to them on their own here today. All children shall experience being part of a professional and social community — which the school represents. At least, SFO is an important part of this very community. We know that there are major differences in SFOs in both quality and price, and therefore it has been important for us in the Right to put in place a national framework that provides both a framework for quality and content in SFOs while taking into account the different needs that exist, and the diversity that exists locally. We have also put in place targeted measures such as reducing parental pay — and thus lower costs for parents and young people who need it all, most of all. We have to make sure that SFO is not just a storage place, but an attractive offer that helps to strengthen the professional and social community for our kids. The work of local authorities on recruiting skilled educators, skilled workers and others with relevant skills can help fill the school leisure offer with meaningful content, where either training in sport and culture is carried out or homework is provided. The possibilities are many. Through the National Framework Plan for the SFO, we are helping to ensure our young people good offers throughout the country. This is an important responsibility for the municipalities. We will continue to work in government to strengthen the quality of SFOs, and several of the proposals in the proposal are already being implemented in several municipalities. In particular, we must give local freedom of action to municipalities in the field of growth policy; we must be able to play in the local areas of competence that we have, the local environment and the needs – not least – around the pupils, and thus the needs that they need. It's worth remembering that the price tag of introducing free SFO, according to SV's own calculations, is 8 billion. kr. If you spend the summer with election vows in the school area like free school food, full-time school and an hour of physical activity, we're close to 40 billion. kr in full-yearly effect, according to the Ministry of Finance. That's a lot of money. There is a lot more than SV has announced in tax increases. It may be worth recalling that this could be proposals that would otherwise distort the professional content and quality of the school, when introducing measures that are not specifically targeted, which are general and which consume so much of the Community's resources into this sector. So I strongly recommend that we focus on what is all, most importantly, the school, the quality and the content of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e674	It is an important proposal that is being discussed here. It is simply about no children being put on the sidelines or standing outside the fence when other children play, learn and participate in a positive community. Today, national reports show that almost 100,000 children in the 1st to 4th grade do not participate in school leisure or activity school because the price is too high. This creates exclusion and contributes to an increase in differences in Norway. For the children, the consequence is that they are not allowed to participate in the game, learning and community after school, and many of these children are among those who could have had the greatest pleasure of having a good SFO offer. The Workers' Party has targets for free SFO offers for the youngest students and has already proposed 250 million. kr for this purpose in our alternative budget for 2021. The working party will start by introducing five hours of free SFO in the week of the 1st class from the fall. The competence of employees is the most important resource and quality factor, also in the SFO. The working party is very disappointed that the government of Solberg closed the national monitoring of the competence of employees and that there is no systematic overview of the competence of employees in the school leisure system. A good SFO offer is important to give children a varied and educational school day, where they meet safe and competent adults throughout the day at school. The Workers' Party believes that a quality reform is needed for SFOs, such as: must contain a systematic commitment to the provision of skills development for employees. The Workers' Party will be committed to the competence of SFO staff and, together with the SV and the Centre, has proposed that an overall plan for the development of SFO staff competence be presented at the latest in the revised national budget for 2021, which has been presented today – it is exciting – including an overview of the competences of SFO staff. The plan must ensure that professionals in the SFO are provided with vocational education services in line with the vocational worker in kindergarten through the future kindergarten strategy, and include a plan for financing vocational education in the upper secondary education sector, and ensure that more people have the opportunity to take a professional letter at work. Professionals strengthen the competitiveness of business and the quality of welfare services such as kindergarten, primary school and SFO. The Labour Party believes that it would be positive if cultural school services and other activities could be integrated into the SFO period, then in cooperation between the school, the cultural school, sports teams and other non-governmental organisations. This, of course, must be done in agreement with voluntary organisations, so that cooperation becomes positive for all parties and does not contribute to undermining the voluntary activity that takes place after school. By using aesthetic subjects already in the SFO, kindergarten and school, we will also strengthen the numbers of applicants for the subject of music, drama and dance in higher education later. I will address the proposals of which the Workers' Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e693	The representative Jorodd Asphjell then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e698	There is a broad consensus that the school leisure system is an important part of a comprehensive policy for education, children and families, and that the content of the SFO is essential for the SFO not to become a place of custody for young people but to add something to children’s development and mastering. This is also the title of the Progress Party. We will also stress the importance of working for equivalency for families who have children with special needs. Equal opportunities for personal development, participation and life development shall be ensured for all young people. The use of SFOs has increased considerably since this was introduced. In the years of SFO, there has also been a lot of attention to the quality of school. A little more has been tested and measured, and the level of knowledge of Norwegian students compared to students in other countries has increased considerably. We believe that this in the Progress Party is positive and that the new reality should also be reflected in the SFO offer. The quality and availability of the SFO scheme is important for all young people. The diversity in Norway is high, and it is precisely the local and regional inequalities — and the fact that people are different — that are some of the reasons why municipalities are responsible for funding and structure in primary schools and that they are the school owners of most primary schools. They have great freedom to determine the content and extent of school life in the current legislation, and the same applies to SFO, or AKS, as they say down here. Different sites also have different needs. National guidelines for content have therefore been very little. Therefore, there is also a variation between municipalities in the offer given to students, and there are differences in the price and use of SFO. This we believe is natural. The Progress Party considers that the targeted arrangements for low-income families are positive. A national maternity scheme with reduced parental benefit is provided for 1st and 2nd stage families and free SFO for pupils with special needs for 5th to 7th stage families. steps. From the autumn of 2021, the reduced parental payment scheme is extended to the third and fourth stages. In view of this, the Progress Party does not wish to support the proposals of the minority, but we are part of the majority who believe that this proposal should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e715	Today, there are almost 100,000 children in between 1 and 4. class not participating in a school holiday or activity school. The report ‘Lek, learning and non-pedagogics for all — National evaluation of the school leisure system in Norway’ from 2018 shows that many families opt out of the SFO because the price is too high. Some children are not allowed to participate in the game, in learning and in the community after school. Many of these children are among those who could have had the greatest pleasure of an SFO offer. The Centre Party will stress that SFO is a voluntary offer, that municipalities must have the freedom to organise and facilitate school leisure schemes based on local needs. Strengthening the quality of the offer and possible sibling moderation must therefore be addressed through local priority and strengthening of the local economy. Several municipalities implement all the measures proposed in the proposal for a representative and local authorities must remain free to take action to develop growth policy. The SFO has introduced income-rated parental payment and that the free SFO scheme for low-income families has been extended in a sample of municipalities, supports the Centre Party. We believe that this is positive for cohesion. I refer to the proposal for a representative, and the Senter party supports proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox We believe it would be positive if cultural school services and other activities could be integrated into the SFO in cooperation between schools, cultural schools, sports teams and other non-governmental organisations. The centre party will point out that this must be done in agreement with the voluntary organisations so that cooperation becomes positive for all parties and does not contribute to undermining the voluntary activity that takes place after school. The Central Party therefore believes that the government must facilitate increased cooperation between SFOs, cultural schools, non-governmental organisations and local employment and business that can underpin the school's broad view of knowledge and competence. Even I know more good examples and initiatives. One is the Horse Centre Myhre Farm in Øystre Slimre Municipality, which has wanted riding as part of the SFO offer locally, with room for universal design, where children with and without disabilities can thrive on their own assumptions. Such offers will be better served by the Centre Party, and then we must have an opportunity for local action spaces and a strengthened local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e726	SV carried out the largest welfare and education reform, the children's hail, under the red-green government. Now is the time for a new welfare reform for children: free SFO – for SV will spend the large amount of money on small children. Today, eight out of ten first-graders go to the SFO. They get to play and learn in the community that the SFO is. At the same time, there are some kids standing on the outside of the fence. When school is over, these kids don't get the safe place to be with adults who provide supervision and care. They must not be involved in the games, learning and cultural and leisure activities provided by the SFO. After finishing school day, 28 pst. of all the six-year-olds in my home country. A third of those who do not send their children to the SFO state the price as a reason. No child shall be kept outside the SFO because of the parents’ wallet. Schools shall be free of charge and, for SV, it is important that everyone should have the opportunity to participate in the school leisure scheme, regardless of the financial situation of their parents. The SFO shall not be a source of exclusion and increased differences, but an important part of the inclusive and equalising common school. On Friday I had a nice digital conversation with the headmaster of the SFO and the headmaster at Yåtten School in Stavanger, a school that has free SFO from 1st grade. Their main appeal was that we should stop thinking about SFO and school as two different things. We take your call seriously. That's why we're now lifting SFO to all the country's first-class ratings and choosing that everyone should give free SFO from 1st to 4th grade. But the SFO offer should not only be free, it must also be better. More employees and good follow-up of the children are the ones that increase the quality of the SFO. Children must be given the opportunity to participate in activities through the SFO, with play and physical activity and not least a cultural offer, and this must be done in cooperation with sport, culture and volunteering. SFO is important for friendship, play and learning, and it's important for families to have the time to get up. But most of all, SFO is important for our children, and that's why it's important for SV. Now, finally, all kids have to be in the game. That's our election vow. I take up the suggestions that SV alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e741	The representative of Mona Fagerås then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e746	SFO is an important part of children's lives. It is the largest leisure arena for many children, and together with school and non-governmental organisations it is the most important arena to establish friendship and to experience community. There are considerable variations in the SFO offer. That is why we need a national framework plan to ensure the quality of the SFO. The government has recently consulted the national framework plan for the SFO, and we are looking forward to its completion. The Government has established a national moderation scheme with reduced parental benefit for families with low income of 1st and 2nd stages and free SFO for rivers with special needs of 5 to 7th. steps. From the autumn of 2021, the reduced parental payment scheme is extended to three to four. steps. In the autumn of 2021, two new schemes are also introduced: free SFO for families with low income in selected municipalities and reduced parental pay in SFO for fresh schools. For the left, it is important that the SFO is for all children, including children who have sick parents or are out of work for various reasons. The parent's economy shall not determine whether you can join the SFO. This is about giving children freedom and equal opportunities. The proposers want the SFO to be free of charge for everyone. We believe that it is moving far towards a full-day school, which this proposal does not discuss, but which the Left does not want. The left is happy to have a reduced parental benefit for families with poor advice and for free core time in the kindergarten for those who need it the most, but the left will go further: we are going to make choices to ensure free full-time access for families with poor advice both in kindergarten and in SFO. It's to give priority to those who need it the most, and it's to ensure freedom and equal opportunities for all children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e761	The school leisure system is currently characterised by wide variations in both design, content, objectives, price and not least quality. This shows the main findings of the NTNU evaluation of the school leisure system. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned with the quality of the children and have shown this through the teaching norm at school and the recruitment norm in kindergarten. We have also seen the need to ensure that children and their parents have an SFO offer that is more than just childcare. The NTNU evaluation finds that the lack of leadership from the central government means that the scheme has wide variations. Both the content and organisation of the SFO vary from municipality to municipality, from SFO to SFO and from step to step. Some places have a good pedagogical plan for the SFO and fill the system with good content for the children, while elsewhere the SFO has more character in being a storage place for the children, where they are only supervised. This believes the Christian People's Party should arouse great concern, both at parents, at school owners and at politicians. This has to be taken seriously. Our children are the future; they are the resource on which our country will build. So we can't have an SFO offer with so many variations. SFO cannot continue to have content with such wide variations in quality. In the Annual Report on Early Efforts and Inclusive Communitys in Kindergarten, School and SFO, this government presented to the Storting a broad review of the status, objectives and ambitions of the school leisure system. With this message, the government wants to contribute to a lift for the SFO by introducing a national framework plan. The framework plan shall ensure that it remains possible to make different priorities and orientations locally, but quality and good pedagogical assessments must be based. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the national framework plan for the SFO is in place and delights us that the Council of State announces that the framework plan will be followed by support and guidance material that will be ready for school start. The Christian People's Party believes that the SFO must continue to be a voluntary offer. It shall not be part of the compulsory day-to-day school. We therefore believe it is more important that the SFO be available than that a right should be granted, as the proposers wish. With good moderation arrangements, we ensure better availability. The Christian People's Party believes that we should continue to work to make it possible to choose the SFO for all children who want such a place, both in public schools and in the health schools who want to offer the SFO. Together with increased availability, we believe that the most important thing is for parents to be sure that children are well cared for by the fact that the SFO has clear requirements for quality, manpower and local opportunities for adaptation and price. We therefore have high expectations for the framework plan for the SFO and are delighted that it will be rolled out for school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e781	The staging representatives have made seven proposals on the school leisure scheme. I understand that the background to the proposals is that you want a high-quality school leisure system that is available to everyone who wants to participate. This is a measure that the government shares. SFO is today a very important leisure arena for very many children aged 1–4. Steps, and that's exactly why we only gave a big message about a year ago, where the SFO was given a lot of space. In the big news we presented several different measures that will both give a boost to the SFO and help make the SFO more accessible to low-income families. Firstly, we have launched a process of establishing a national framework plan for the SFO. At the same time, the government will ensure that it remains possible to make different priorities and policy choices locally. The important thing is that all SFOs should provide good quality in the offer, not that the scheme should be as local as possible. The draft new framework plan for the SFO has recently been consulted and will be defined in a short time. It will be accompanied by support and guidance materials, which will be ready for school start-ups. Secondly, we have introduced a national moderation scheme with reduced parental benefit for families with low income. This school year started the scheme from 1 to 2. steps and extended to the harvest also for 3 to 4. steps. Thirdly, we have introduced free SFOs for students with special needs of 5-7. steps. These are students who have few other leisure activities, and where parents often rely more on the SFO to get their everyday lives around. There are few students involved, but I think it's an important scheme that is worth lifting out. Fourthly, we will release a new grant to the free SFO for families with low income in selected municipalities. I believe that all these measures now being implemented are important for the development of the school leisure system. In the future, we need to ensure that we evaluate the framework plan, but we also need to take the time to implement it in a good and proper way. I want to closely monitor both quality and participation in the SFO in the future. In the long term, consideration should be given to other measures that also need to be taken to contribute both to raising quality and to increasing accessibility, but I do not think this is the time to introduce new, comprehensive and highly costly national measures. Now I think we should implement what we have planned and see how it works. I also think it is important to stress the freedom that municipalities have to shape the content of the SFO, even if we introduce a new national framework plan. I believe that we should allow that introduction to take some time before we implement new, larger changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e799	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State presented precisely the costs of the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative. The introduction of free SFO for all children aged 1 to 4. steps will cost a place between 4.5 billion. kr and 8.2 brd. kr plus one more billion for sibling moderation. For the Centre Party, it is important to focus on quality in SFO and school and to maintain SFO as a voluntary offer. To put this into perspective, what does the Council of State think it would mean to spend 7-8 billion. Do you have a problem with increasing teacher density and making around the student instead of these proposals here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e812	I want to thank you for a good question, because I think it's this kind of reflection we need to do in school policy. If we all think that now we're going to spend 8 billion. kr, what is the most effective way to spend the billions on ensuring that all children have the same opportunities in life? Then I think it is right to use some of it to reduce the price of SFO, especially for those with the lowest income, so that everyone can go there. But after that, I believe that all the most important measures must be measures that contribute to improving the quality of learning – a bit in the SFO, but perhaps primarily in the school, where we all know that we are meeting, and which, after all, is the most important learning venue. It is clear that we can get a lot of good for such a sum of money. We can get further training. We can have skills enhancement. We can increase the teacher's density. And we can increase the commitment to expertise in special pedagogics. So I think there's a lot more ways to spend that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e819	Here the Center Party shares some of the reflections made by the Council of State. It's a little interesting learning to play, to play, to have an arena where you create the students – and not least that other types of professionals and resource people can contribute to the students and create good relationships, good experiences, related to everyday life around the school, not least that of students' relationships with adults. What do the Council of State think about other competences and groups of resource people who can contribute to the SFO and have a variety of offers – whether it's horse-riding, sports or something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e826	I think that's a very good way to think about it. Firstly, it is very good to use resource environments that exist in a municipality or in a region, to play with them, and to see how to get them into good cooperation with the school leisure system. It often helps lower the threshold, so that more students are introduced to that kind of offer. Horse centre, I think, is a very good example. There are a lot of SFOs working with them. I've been to the SFO in Trondheim, which has a very close cooperation with the cultural school, which makes it all of a sudden there are completely different types of students applying for the cultural school, because they feel that it's an interesting offer. That's exactly why I think it's also important that we nationally don't get too rigid in controlling what the content of the SFO is, because there's not every place there's a horse centre, so we can't insist that we cooperate with them. But elsewhere there are other types of environments that make sense to rely on. It is important that the SFO provide room for both free play and for different types of competence, so that children meet different types of adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e831	The quality of SFOs varies greatly from school to school and from municipality to municipality, and the quality of SFOs is to a large extent the competence of those who work there. In our neighbouring Nordic countries, it has been possible to take a bachelor in activity education for a long time, and this was Iceland the last to introduce in 1995. A separate education for those who work in the SFO, we would also have needed in Norway several decades later. The Educational Environment Centre is now further training the activity leaders in Oslo School. Is it a good idea to bet on skills in the SFO, and is this something that the minister intends to roll out to more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e838	Now, when we introduce a new framework plan for the SFO, it's really the first time that we're nationally saying very clearly what we think the SFO should contain. It is the highest quality promise that has been made for SFO nationally. I think it would be very reasonable for us to discuss, in the context of the implementation of such a framework plan, what kind of leverage we want for the SFO in the future – both what we think it is right to impose on employees and managers, and how we should contribute to building up the skills of those who already work there. I would like to stress that there are a lot of people doing a fantastic job in SFO today, who need to get filled up, and I think we should look at opportunities to give them. Whether the way is to make your own training offers, or whether the way is to use existing training offers and to the extent that you add something that is directly in front of the SFO, I will not conclude here. But I definitely believe that we should use some of the resources we're going to put into the school in the future, to ensure skills in the SFO as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e845	A national evaluation of the SFO in 2018 shows that SFO prices are one of Norway’s largest exclusion venues. A third of those who do not send their children to the SFO state that the price is the reason. In that case, the Minister cannot continue to believe that the need-tested parental benefit for parents with low income is successful. It's a bureaucratic system that you have to have a lot of resources to apply for and know about. Why does the Minister not believe that all children should participate in the common arena, where school learning continues with a greater focus on social interaction?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e850	If that survey was from 2018, the introduction of price moderation has been put in place since then and that scheme is also being strengthened. It's going to be interesting to see if we can meet the families that need it the most. I think it's important that we don't oversimplify, because there might be a lot of people who say they don't use SFO because they think it's too expensive, for example. for a 4th grade, which also appears to be quite boring. It may be that the same parents would not think that the price was so high if the offer was of better quality and that was actually something the child wanted to wear. Perhaps that family would rather spend their money on leisure activities provided by voluntary teams and organisations. I don't think we should make a system where it's not okay. SFO is actually voluntary. What I think is most important is that we give priority to those who cannot afford to pay the entrance ticket today. I believe that the price of some municipalities is too high, and therefore we need good moderation arrangements. We need to ensure free SFOs for families with low incomes, but we do not – I believe – have the opportunity to afford to do so for absolutely everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e858	As I mentioned in my post, I had a digital conversation on Friday with the head of the SFO and the headmaster of Jåtten School in Stavanger, who has introduced free SFO from 1st grade. Their main appeal to us here at Stortinget was that we have to stop thinking about school and SFO as two different things. But when there's a cost of going to the SFO, you'll naturally have to think of it as two different things. What does the minister say to the principal and the head of the SFO at Yight School when we have to think of this as two completely different things – two things that naturally should belong together?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e863	I myself have visited Jåtten School physically – also SFO. One of the reasons I was actually recommended to visit that particular SFO was that it was an SFO that was very closely integrated with the school. That's what's most important, that there's close cooperation between the SFO and the school, for example. to improve the ability to provide additional follow-up and better use of SFO as an arena to support the learning process at school. I did not then realize that it was an independent point that it should be free of charge, but I believe that if some municipalities believe it is an important tool in that municipality to support learning, I think it is entirely right to choose to do it this way. It has also been given priority in the municipality of Oslo. I think you rolled it out in a very strange way, which actually worked very excluding. But apart from that, I believe that in many places it may be a sensible tool either to lower the price or to do the offer completely free of charge. The question we're discussing here is whether we're going to spend 8 billion. kr from the State budget in order to establish a national scheme. I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e870	Replicate cord shift complete. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e889	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e896	Young children learn and develop differently from older students. It is absolutely necessary that the forms of learning at school are adapted to the age and needs of the students. School day must provide room for good experiences in play and friendship. It's both a value in itself and a crucial factor in creating a good learning environment. For this reason, the government has offered 47 000 teachers further training, so that more people can receive, for example: depression in initial training and learning how to combine good training in basic skills with the creativity, commitment and exploration of children. That's why we've got over 4,500 more qualified teachers in Norwegian school, especially in high school, and that's why we've given schools and kindergartens an obligation to cooperate, so that the transition becomes safer for the excited six-year-olds who show up on the first day of school. Therefore, it was also a unanimous growth that in 2018 asked for more knowledge about the early school years and what educational methods work well for the younger ones. We got a research survey the same year that was used by the curriculum groups in the subject renewal, and in the competence goals of the overall section of the subject renewal, it becomes clear that it is important for children to unfold through play in both school and leisure. Now we have received the first work report that brings together Norwegian and Nordic research on the transition between kindergarten and 1st grade, and that gives us valuable knowledge. I look forward to the main report coming in 2023, and I think it's natural to await it before doing drastic grips. But I would like to stress that there's no contradiction between a school where first-graders thrive and have varied education, and a school where they learn to read, write and calculate. Many children start school and enjoy this. I find it alarming that the opposition seems to dream a little back to a 23-year-old school reform, which has for the most part been replaced by two other school reforms: the knowledge promise and the trade union renewal. I want to spend some time reflecting on why we left Reform 97. It was precisely because there was a reform in which teachers were guided in detail to use both play and thematic work as methods in teaching, although they did not necessarily have the skills or enthusiasm to teach that way. There was little information about what the students actually learned, and there were unclear professional objectives for teaching. This was also demonstrated by the evaluation. Reform 97 has been evaluated by the Research Council in 2003, and they found few examples of teachers playing as a educational tool for children to learn to develop languages. The results suggested the same thing: many students were weak in basic skills. That was why we, cross-politically, introduced the Knowledge promise in 2005 and introduced reading and calculation training earlier in school. A lot indicates that it has been absolutely necessary. Students in grades 4 and 5 read better, and especially children with minority backgrounds have the greatest improvement. For the Right, it is fully possible to have a school that is adapted to the youngest students while having basic reading, writing and math training. We have to think forward, not backward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e913	I would like to thank the Centre Party for promoting this matter. This is probably an important occasion for the Storting to take a foothold on both the evaluation of the six-year reform and monitoring – and the school. The Labour Party believes that the school we have now has become too sedentary, too theoretical and too old-fashioned, especially for the youngest students. Where we end up now, the intention was not at least to the Workers' Party when one introduced these reforms, that small children should first and foremost be sitting at their desk inside the classroom. The consequences are the greatest for children and the worst for children with stronger practical skills, who, through a theoretical school, are more likely to face defeat than mastery. The attitude in this matter is also proof that a new majority in the Storting is needed if we are to take this seriously. So the representative from the Right tries to say that it's old-fashioned to want to do something about this. No, it's completely wrong. For future skills are not just theoretical. The still-sitting and the doggy school that the Right is occupied with is what's old-fashioned. When the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV today promote important proposals to actually address the alarming developments that have occurred, it is the Right who becomes the defender of the old-fashioned and wants it as it has been, and believes that one knew better before and will not address the challenges that are. To look at the evaluation of the six-year reform: there, the right-wing government has deliberately postponed the process and kept it on time. The consequences are, then, the most serious for the children, who have to wait even longer for the solutions, because the Right will investigate and assess. We in the opposition are more impatient. This is why the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are promoting both the development of a more teaching-based pedagogy, which we have been waiting for for too long, concretely following up on the proposals that come in the evaluations, and that further work needs to be done on collecting more research. The right-hand parties vote against. When it comes to mapping, it's proven that new tests and mappings are the right-wing government's answer to really every question that comes up. Mandatory, bureaucratic linguistic mapping of all children in kindergarten is now to be introduced. VG revealed last week that the new control tests requested by the government should start already in the second class, and the case refers to the smile-and-sure-face mapping, which I believe is a harmful type of self-evaluation. I think it's in place to put down the feet of this kind of national mapping, which we are now proposing. With this, I address the proposals of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV are agreed on in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e928	The representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e933	The general rule is that the school should be ready to accept the students. Play is important for children's learning and development, and there should be room for play at school. But play and learning are not the opposite of each other. The new curriculum emphasizes the importance of play, especially for the youngest children. There's no test regime in today's school. The students go to school for 13 years. During the 13 years they spend a total of 15 hours on mandatory national samples and screening tests – 15 hours of 13 years. The tests shall ensure that no student goes through school without mastering basic skills such as reading and billing. We need to facilitate the flexibility of the regulatory framework for school leavers or early school leavers. We will also give municipalities the opportunity to try out new models for flexible school start-ups and gather experiences to see what works in practice. Cooperation between kindergarten and school needs to be strengthened in many municipalities. We agree on that. Therefore, from 1 August 2018, a statutory obligation was imposed on kindergarten owners and school owners to cooperate on the transition of children from kindergarten to school andSFO/AKS. Research on the consequences of the six-year reform, however, shows that it cannot be established that school start-ups for six-year-olds and ten-year-old primary schools have provided better learning outcomes. This may, for example: is due to a lack of consistency between the intentions of the reform and the real practice at the time it was launched. The youngest students must be well-off and have good and well-organised school training. The Government and the Advance Party have put in place a number of measures aimed at this student group. For this reason, the majority of the Committee has demonstrated that the Government and the Advance Party have introduced an obligation for the school to offer intensive training to students at 1 to 4 stages if they are at risk of being left behind in reading, writing or billing. This is important to ensure that the youngest students experience mastering at school. We also show that the six-year reform is under evaluation. OsloMet comes with a new interim report in 2021 and one in 2022. The final report is due in 2023. We have to wait for these reports before we start any new evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e950	The entry to the right of this debate is revealing and underlines why this matter is important. The size covered earlier during this enlargement period proposals from the Central Party on the need for the evaluation of the six-year reform. An overall increase decided to ask the government to initiate an external evaluation of the relationship between the intentions and the principles behind the six-year reform and the current situation for school starters. The government also decided to ask the government to produce a knowledge overview of available research on the characteristics of learning promotion and good learning environments for the youngest pupils in school. The background to asking for such an overview was that this knowledge should be used when completing the new curricula in the field of innovation. As of now, only the order for a knowledge overview has been made. Today, we are pressing for the knowledge overview to be followed up, including: with proposals for knowledge of the relationship between play and learning. The centre party also received an impact on our concerns regarding the test regime that has been put in place in Norwegian school in the spring of 2018. National quality assessment system, as it is called, is the national tool to tell teachers and students whether they succeed in school or one. This is an abuse of the time of both students and teachers. The survey decided that a sample of the parties should assess how the assessment system could be better adapted to new school curricula. The government has not yet followed up properly, and the Central Party is therefore repeating our criticism today. In September 2018, a study conducted by Response Analysis for VG showed that 84 pst. the first-stage teachers believe that the school day is too theoretical for the five- and six-year-olds. Since then it has not improved. The school is open to many students, whether it kills the indwelling motivation or because it seriously confirms the fear of individual children and parents for the content of the school — too much dry theory and terping, too little motivation, mastery and meaning. The government's vision of knowledge is too sloppy. The school is about so much more than tests and basics. Intensive training is not what teaches all students to learn. We must not take for granted the internal motivation of both students and teachers. Both student participation and party cooperation where trustees have influence is important. The center party believes in teachers and that they are the ones who meet the students every day, who know best what needs to be done. The involvement of professionals and educators and the use of up-to-date knowledge are essential. The party wants the six- and five-year-olds who start school to get the best start possible. Then it is sad that our proposals are not supported by the majority of the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e965	The government has failed the six-year-olds. It is serious when the government has trained a decision to evaluate the six-year reform, as the Newspaper revealed in the autumn of 2020. But I'm not most concerned about the Storting, I'm most concerned about the children. The background to the SV’s concern to evaluate the six-year reform was constant feedback that the school already from the 1st grade had too much theory, testing and sit-down, contrary to the intention of the reform, namely to pick up the best from school and the best from kindergarten. When the Stortinget adopted the evaluation in 2018, a number of children’s psychiatrists, researchers and teachers in the VG told about how the performance pressure and hours of sitting were already from the first class creating fear and school refusal. The fact that the then minister of knowledge, Jan Tore Sanner, did not listen and must have trained the evaluation is simply a scandal for these schoolchildren. On repeated occasions SV has explained how we can create a more practical and varied school day, not just for our six-year-olds, but for all students in Norwegian school: a school with enough teachers who have time to watch and follow up each individual student a school that is practical and varied; a school with time for play and physical activity; a school that makes sure our kids get a healthy school meal during the day a school where the students get help with homework and can be free when they get home Unfortunately, the government has only had one answer when they are confronted with the need for a more practical and varied school, with time for play and physical activity: trade renewal. But new curricula in themselves do not change school practice. The government parties have systematically voted down all the proposals that students, teachers and researchers have requested to have a more practical and varied school. The SV school is more up-to-date than ever and will provide a better school day for the students, a better working day for the teachers and a better working day for families. As regards the use of screening, where the youngest students are required to evaluate and evaluate fellow students and teachers, inter alia: using so-called smiley and leaven assessments, this must be discontinued.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1000	The pedagogical structure of kindergarten and school learning must and must be based on knowledge of how the youngest children learn and develop. The role of play in training is important both in the overall part and in the curricula for subjects in the new profession, which entered into force in the autumn of 2020. The curricula have been given a clearer progression and are now better linked to the framework plan for kindergarten. This is very important. It is also very important that we have received a five-year research-based primary school teacher training for 1–7. steps, which include the focus on initial and professional and social learning processes for the youngest children, and the establishment of a teacher-specialist scheme in the field of initial training. There is an obligation for the school to provide intensive training to 1–4 students. steps that are at risk of being followed in reading, writing and billing, and it is important to ensure that the youngest students experience mastering at school. We have introduced a standard for teacher density at school level, and since 2013, there have been more than 4,000 qualified teachers in Norwegian classrooms. Several teachers are particularly important in the early years and a good contribution to more play and learning and more time and space to see each individual student and to give closer follow-up. There is a statutory obligation for schools and kindergartens to cooperate for a safe and predictable transition, and a good transition takes care of the children’s need for coherence between kindergarten and school and provides the necessary flexibility in meeting a new everyday life. School learning methods must be tailored to the age and needs of children, and we trust that teachers will use their professional and pedagogical judgement to determine which methods and practices are best suited to different groups of students. That is why we are sceptical about the state of pedagogy for the youngest children, because it may conflict with the teacher's professional space, which we believe the teacher should have. The evaluation of the six-year reform has taken longer than expected. The preliminary findings in the work report are interesting, and we look forward to the main report coming in 2023 and believe that it needs to be taken into account before drawing conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1017	In 1997, a major experiment was launched in the Norwegian school. Our six-year-olds started school. We are still waiting for the final report from the evaluation, but more interim reports have shown that there is a clear need for more knowledge about how the six-year-olds are doing in school today, how best to facilitate schooling for six-year-olds, and possible links between previous schooling and challenges for Norwegian students when they go further into school. In 2018, the Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, took the initiative – we'll call it – the reform exam of early schooling for six-year-olds to investigate whether the conditions of the Stortinget had set to lower schooling from seven to six years, was maintained in School-Norway. The intention of the six-year reform was that the first step should have a clear pre-school mark with play-based education. The reading training should not start until the second stage. Our children were promised a day-to-day play as a learning method, and the transition to the school bench was to be done as well as possible, with small student groups and good teaching resources. This government has, through its work on early work and new curriculum, the subject of vocational renewal, facilitated a more play-based initial training. We're happy about that. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will point to the changes made in the trade renewal, with more emphasis on the natural need for activity of the six-year-old – a step in the right direction. But we also see that the research survey from KSU, results from the Aged project and the first working report from Osloet together give us a clue that we are still far from the goal of Christian People's Party for initial training. The first Oslo Work Report shows, among other things: that the play is not given a clearly defined place in the first few years of school. Many of the responses suggest that playing in initial training is about the activity that takes place during the spare minutes. In the results of the Agder project, we also see that play-based learning among the oldest children in kindergarten provides children with a better starting point for school start-ups. We appreciate the fact that the proposers raise some important concerns related to the six-year-olds in school, and we largely share their intention of changing school content and methods to make school start even better for our smallest children. For children's need to play doesn't go away just because they're six years old and they're starting school. If we're going to create a school that's good for the smallest children, it's also important to have the knowledge to do just this. This knowledge is reflected in the final report of the evaluation of the six-year reform in 2023. Hopefully, it will contribute some of the knowledge we need to take the next steps to adapt school even better to the six-year-olds than we've gotten up to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1028	The representatives of the Grand Duchy have made four proposals which deal differently with the youngest pupils and the transition between kindergarten and school. The government is concerned that all students, including the youngest, should have good and adapted training at school and that they should be well-off. The new curricula state that training should be adapted to the age and maturity of the students. The curriculum is also very clear that play is necessary for well-being and development, especially for younger children. Better organisation for the youngest is a main theme in the Message. St. 6 for 2019–2020 on early intervention and inclusive community. The Communication contains a number of measures that strengthen early efforts throughout the kindergarten and school life. We have also introduced a statutory obligation to cooperate on the transition between kindergarten and school. The representatives show that the government has trained an evaluation of the six-year reform, as requested by the Stortinget. This is a claim that has no basis in fact. As I have informed you earlier in Stortinget, this evaluation started later than we wanted, because it had to be published in two rounds. I should like to see more research environments sign up to interest at the first call, so that the evaluation could get started more quickly. However, it is important that the research we use as a knowledge base for decisions is of high quality. I therefore believe that it was right to spend time on a new announcement of the evaluation, and I believe that we have followed up the Storting's request decision in a good way. Representatives ask the government to launch more new research projects and to develop pedagogical practices at the first stages. The research surveys from the Knowledge Centre for Education and the Oslomet both show that there is too little empirical knowledge about what is actually happening at the first steps of the Norwegian classroom today. When we are going to use resources on new measures, we need to know that they are accurate and that they correspond to a real need. I therefore believe that we should wait until we get more knowledge from the evaluation of the six-year reform before launching new projects. The proposers ask for a reference to a series of articles in the Newspaper to put an end to well-being studies using smiley icons as response options. According to the Training Act § 9 A, all those working at the school must follow up on whether the students have a safe and good school environment. Many schools and school owners use different surveys to collect knowledge about the school environment. This is within the local space of action, and I assume that schools and school owners stay within the legal framework. I also trust that the teachers use wisdom and reason when they choose the method in the classrooms. Both the government and the Stortinget have been concerned that the youngest students, too, must have their opinion on the learning environment. As we gradually gain more knowledge from the Oslomet evaluation, I believe that we should also consider the need to develop a method to obtain regular information on how the youngest students experience school life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1044	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1049	Finally, the evaluation started. The first interim report, which came in the spring, says that the game has not been given a clear and defined place in the first few years, which Gruvan was also in his post, and many of those who contribute to the report say that playing in the initial training is about the activity of the free minutes. Is the Council of State concerned about these findings, and does the Council of State consider that there are five- and six-year-olds who are responsible for adapting to the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1054	Both the Education Act, the curriculum and me are very clear that it is the school that needs to adapt to the students, not the other way around. This means that, especially for the five- and six-year-olds, but also for quite a few older children, the game has an obvious and important place, not only in the spare minutes, but also in the training. I've visited a lot of schools that are incredibly good at doing this. Although I share the concern – I think definitely that there are students who experience that school life is a bit too quiet today – I believe that a description of Norwegian school as a doggy school where all students sit quietly behind their desk, does not match the reality I see and experience when I am out visiting Norwegian schools. On the contrary, I believe that very many teachers, especially in the small step, are very good at facilitating activity and play and for students to learn and play in good harmony.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1059	But what we're missing here is the relationship between what's imposed by national teams and what's happening in classrooms. It's about how a pressure on surveys and what the government itself describes as the acquisition of information, actually affects how they work – how they might otherwise make the setup, and they're forced to give up their teaching in a way they don't really want. I would like the Council of State to take more into account, because it is also Lillejord and others. is in. The Centre Party believes that it is the school's mandate and responsibility to adapt education so that students are subject to learning outcomes where they are developing. Lilland and the expert group point out that involvement and participation are needed to raise school quality, as well as common understanding across school-Norway levels. It's kind of the opposite that happens when the state council hastens to roll out tests in school without involvement. How does the Council of State contribute to good involvement? Is she satisfied with different understanding in KD and classroom?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1066	The description provided by the representative is not correct. We have followed up the decision of Stortinget to have a dialogue with the parties on the quality development system in Norwegian school. We've had a lot of meetings already, and we're going to have a lot more meetings. It is important when we have a quality development system that we ensure that it is of good quality, that it is in line with the curricula. It would be very silly if we had quality assessment systems that are not in line with the curricula that we have just adopted, and it is important that we develop good ways to figure out how the kids are doing in school. We haven't gotten far enough on this. That is why I believe we should continue to work on it. But putting up a contrast between students' well-being and the fact that we're actually asking them how they feel, I think it's very strange. When we're going to develop this system, we have to do it step by step. It's going to take a long time. We're not going to have any new national tests until 2024-2025, and I'm going to promise that, in the future, we're going to involve all parties well in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1073	In the case of monitoring where the youngest students are required to evaluate and evaluate fellow students and teachers, among others: when using so-called smiley and leaven assessments, we believe in SV that this has to be resolved. It has been considered harmful. Why it's not done once and for all, it's a mystery to me, and why the minister will leave this to the schools and municipalities, I think it's alarming. It almost seems that the Minister of Knowledge does not understand the seriousness of the matter. Isn't Melby worried about the students who have been subjected to the study? How should parents and children be sure that this will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1078	I have to say, I think it is alarming that we have a debate about school, which is so little about research and knowledge. There is no evidence for a claim that what has been carried out by screenings is harmful to a single child. If that were true, I would of course have stopped it right away. It is clear that it is quite difficult to obtain good information from young children about how they are doing at school. Young children cannot choose a long form, such as: The student survey is, and small children may have difficulty putting words on exactly how they are at school, just as older children or we adults can. From the fifth step up, we have the student survey, which has proved to be a pretty good tool for how the students are doing in school. I believe that we also need to discuss how we can know how the youngest children are doing. I don't think we've found the best methods yet, but I think we should keep working on it. It is actually a responsibility to the youngest children that we ensure that their voice is heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1085	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1092	Over the last few years, I've heard some posts from this pulpit that are unprofessional and full of strawmen, but I think the Labour Party's representative almost managed to top this in his post here earlier. Just to establish it once and for all: there are no small children who learn to read, write and count by sitting and chewing in front of a board. Show me one teacher in Norwegian school who teaches that way. The main reason why we focus on the skills of teachers is that teachers are able to use different educational tools to help students in different ways – by whom they are, and by what age they are in. I think a lot of what you're really attacking here is a distrust of much of the teaching profession. It's not common in Norwegian school that you just sit in front of a board all day. There are many skilled teachers who use a lot of good, exciting methods for students, for example. shall break the read code early. Schools there, for example. learn two letters in the alphabet of the week, helping to create both learning and learning joys. Nine out of ten 5th grade students say they're enjoying themselves, that's just 2 pst. Which says they're dismayed. There's a lot of evidence that many people actually think it's fun to go to school. One of the reasons why the motivation falls in high school and later in school is that there are some students who have not been caught and where the knowledge gaps have become too large. Letting students sit in a classroom and not master what it's taught, because the teaching is not adapted, is the worst thing you can do to them. In the innovation, as I know, many people just skip in this debate, it's underlined that you have to play, explore and create. There is no aim of competence in the first class, the aim of competence is only at the end of the second class. In fact, this government has volunteered the first-class screening tests for the school. We're too much knowledge, and that's why I'm glad Oslomet is now on the move. But I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand how the Workers' Party lies in this terrain, because in the early 2000s the Workers' Party recognized that they had taken too easy on this with knowledge, and that reading, writing and billing did not come automatically by themselves over the years. And then you choose a read, write and calculate guarantee where you have to introduce new screening tests. You say you have to map everyone in the first and second classes. But all of a sudden here today, it seems like you want to turn the first grade into pre-school, or you want to ban or remove formal first-class reading and calculation training. It is completely impossible to know what the Workers' Party really thinks about basic skills, and how it should be taught in Norwegian school. There's no difference between students who learn to read, write and calculate, and knowing learning joy and mastering. What we need to invest in is the competence of teachers to adapt education and make a safe transition between kindergarten and school. That's what should be our main focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1103	Danish researcher Kasper Madsen has studied how to use movement to learn better – much better. He believes that the school needs to use activities in education in a completely different way than just to get the pulse up. The conclusions of Madsen's research project are clear: Students learn more in all subjects when they move. SV has long considered that school students should be guaranteed one hour of physical activity every day. This can be done by making use of the local action space, including the local authorities and schools. by organising the school day in a way that gives students greater opportunity to be physically active. A majority of the Stortinget has decided to introduce one hour of physical activity. Nevertheless, the government has refused to introduce this. I believe, like the representative Torstein Tvedt Solberg, that the theory-tung school is old-fashioned and out-of-date. Last week, Guri Melby launched even more testing. But if the schools and the students are to get good results on all the government's tests, the minister and not least the right-wing government must start thinking differently. I have a clear call for the knowledge minister Guri Melby: read the research to Kasper Madsen, and take on how important it is that the students get enough movement. Our kids need to play and move more. This has great support among teachers, and now a research support is also provided for a teacher to be more physically active. That should also be the right-hand side. The students are sitting too still, and it goes beyond concentration, learning and health. It is preferable to introduce several hours for, inter alia: physical activity, more culture, art and crafts. Free SFO will give everyone the opportunity to think new and make sure that we get a school with a broader knowledge view and a more practical and varied school. Many schools are on their way to getting more physical activity into everyday life, but not all. We had hoped that the one-hour decision on physical activity every day would lead to the government and the school owners in the municipalities setting up conditions so that the schools that have not done so would also be able to do so. In the same way that the Storting has decided to ensure basic skills in reading, writing and accounting in all subjects, this majority – and I remind the Stortinget of it – has decided that physical activity should be a priority part of the school day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1120	The center party is definitely for knowledge and we're going to have a knowledge-based development of the school. That is precisely why there should be good reason to support the proposals we are promoting here today. Three out of four proposals are very clear on further work, further efforts for increased knowledge. We agree that we know too little about what works, but at the same time, the Council of State is very concerned that there is no evidence that the tests are harmful. The center party thinks we have coatings. It's both professors and teachers, professionals in the first line, who stand up and say how harmful this is to students, and how it affects their working life in the negative sense. I want to ask you back: is there evidence to claim that all these assessments and tests are useful to the students? Or who are they really useful to? Governments also say that we need to acquire knowledge and have regular knowledge acquisition. Well, that's what teachers do -- every single day meeting the students. At the same time, the government has signalled the introduction of national samples from the second class and the disappearance of precisely the screening tests that Tybrung-Gjedde is so busy. Tybring-Gjedde also goes out incredibly hard and talks about distrust of teachers. I believe that there are some people who express distrust here, just right by not having confidence that teachers actually know their students, are concerned with the assessment of learning, or that the signals that come about that we have to do something with the assessment system come from an inherent commitment to better professional quality and development in the school. We also see the PISA discussion that is going on in Sweden. Here, the Minister of Knowledge may have to go because there has been a gap between what has actually emerged in the tests and what is the fact in the school. Fagerås pointed out very well in his article the professional coating for what is needed for more education in school, both physical activity and not least having a healthy and good diet at the bottom in order to take in learning and grow and develop as children and young people. We've got new curricula on the move. They're an important and correct step in the right direction, but then we also have to put in place the assessment forms. It was precisely this Stortinget wanted by decision in 2018. There are articles in Education News that point out that there is also a potential for government and government to listen and involve teacher organisations. Then, of course, the Central Party has faith that a great effort is being made to achieve a good evaluation system at the end of this, but we want to point out that the proposals we are promoting today are simply about more knowledge and insight for the benefit of the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1136	Knowledge and insight are important keywords, so I hope I can help inform the room a little: it is not that the government has now submitted a proposal for a new test regime in the school. The fact is, the government has adopted some principles for the quality development systems in school. We have said that we want quality development systems that provide both governance information to national authorities and better information about individual students, so that we can get better adapted training. And then we've determined many, many times that we haven't intended to introduce more screenings or more tests in Norwegian school, so I hope that representatives can stop repeating the untruths about it from Storting's pulpit. I understand very well that the proposers want a school where there is room for more play, and I think it is right that there are students today who do not feel that there is good enough room for play. I think we all agree on that. I still think that the proposals that are being promoted here go very far in detail in the method choices at school, and that it is very far from a system that shows confidence in the professionals at school. What is proposed is that the government should develop a pedagogy adapted to the five- and six-year-olds – the state should develop the pedagogy to be used in Norwegian classrooms of Norwegian teachers. I believe that there is a great deal to do in detail about the content of Norwegian school, and I think it will kill for a positive professional development. My experience is that Norwegian teachers represent a profession that wants to develop, that wants to discuss professional challenges, and that wants to figure this out together, but also individually, and that does not want a dictate from the political leadership of the country on how to do their job in Norwegian classrooms. We have freedom of method, and I think that is an important value in Norwegian school. I think that's also one of the reasons why they're all, most of the students are doing well. I also believe that after such a debate it is important to say that there are very many arrows pointing in the right direction in Norwegian school. The students learn more, mostly, in most subjects, and the very most students are doing well. It doesn't mean that we don't have to go any longer to make them feel better, but I think there's only one way if we think there's too little play in school and want more: then it's about developing the teachers who work in Norwegian school, it's about making sure they get the skills they need, that they get time in everyday life to help develop the pedagogy at their school and in other professional communities. I think that's the only answer to that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1147	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1164	At the request of the Education and Research Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1171	As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, I should like to begin by thanking the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation and for the input from the hearing. So I thought I'd talk on behalf of the Workers' Party. Social relevance is an important objective of higher education. Learning places must equip students for working and social life, supported by predictable framework conditions and clear government expectations. But the government is placing more emphasis on formulating expectations than on enabling the institutions to meet them. The flat ABE cuts during the government period have reduced the scope for action in order to strengthen the relevance of working life and to solve the wider societal challenge. The Norwegian model has contributed to a high level of labour conversion and innovation capacity and will be at least as important in a future with major changes and demands for change. Further development of the Norwegian model is itself a justification for closer cooperation between higher education and working life. This should be the theme of the message, but it is not. The Labour Party believes that during the practical period students should learn about the organised working life, about rights and obligations, about party cooperation, etc. This Communication has few and careful solutions, and it will not solve Norway’s specific challenges with higher education and occupational relevance, as higher education in Norway is weakly linked to the labour market. The students get too little practice. Cooperation between apprenticeships and social partners is less developed in Norway than in other Nordic countries. It is unfortunate for quality and relevance and for implementation in higher education. It is part of the social mission to ensure the nation's skilled labour force. Students should be able to expect that what they invest in the studies leads to a relevant job. I see in the remarks that the government parties are calling for action from the opposition. Well, it's the government that's failing. One year after the Workers' Party was part of a large majority of people who helped the government develop a new funding system that helps to promote work life relevance, we are still waiting. This is an overall and important grip that should have been taken. The government is hesitant and does not thank you. The working party is impatient. We believe that the Memorandum of Understanding with the University and Higher Education Council, the parties and the voluntary sector must be put in place as soon as possible and should be followed by a strategy – that is, jointly between the actors here, in order to follow up. We also propose that the government's strategy for flexible and decentralised education be presented to the Storting, so that this not only ends up as an example collection — non-obligatory. Then, of course, we are for more flexible student support, which we proposed three years ago in this room, but we were voted down by the government parties. We want an assurance that changes to the self-payment regulation should not undermine the free principle or create greater social differences in access to competence. For the Workers' Party, equal opportunities for lifelong learning are fundamental. And it is not the individual who should be entirely responsible here. We also want to commit the municipalities, and support an investigation of increased responsibility for the education of health and social students. But the financial framework must allow for that. On the other hand, when the government wants to determine how private actors are to be given responsibility for contributing to the education of health and social students, we are sceptical. We do not want this to be a sneak privatisation and believe that that responsibility should be limited to offering practical sites. Throughout this period of government, students have called for more practice – without the government meeting them. They don't really do that in the message either. What is proposed is to investigate, review legislation, continue. There won't be any more and better practice of it. The same applies to student-active forms of learning and teaching, which are very important, but there will be no results of ‘to facilitate innovation around’. There is a need for active action. Last, but not least: with a goal of practice for all, which we share, the government must ensure that it is not the students themselves who have to take the additional costs of practice in the form of travel, diet and lodging on their own coat. With this I take up the proposals Arbeiderparteiten has together with the Zenterpartiet and SV in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1207	The representative Nina Sandberg then drew up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1212	Over the past 15 years, financial crisis, oil price falls and a large, long-term pandemic have shown us the importance of a good system of knowledge and skills development in the face of major shifts. If we are to strengthen this, we must have good cooperation between the education sector, the labour market and the authorities. It's really a prerequisite for quality because our students are going to train themselves to a working life in constant change, and they're going to learn all their lives. Training must then also be relevant and practical, and it must be a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship. That is why I am very pleased that today we are adopting a big message with 24 concrete actions that will facilitate better cooperation between academics and the labour market, a more open and accessible education sector, increased interdisciplinary and student-active learning and teaching methods and more and better practices. I would also like to say a thousand thanks to all those who have made good contributions during the treatment at Stortinget. The measures provided for in this Communication are concrete, while giving room for the development of good and adapted solutions to academia, work and business. Just because in recent years we have increased the budgets of the UH sector so strongly, by 55 pst. increase only in the research and development budgets, there will be scope for the UH sector to work more on the future relevance of working life. One of the most important and most concrete, and perhaps the most requested, steps in this communication is to review the self-payment regulation in order to make it easier and more flexible to provide continuing training to workers in the workplace. It may have been the most unison feedback from the UH sector. Today there are too many limitations, and there are too few incentives to develop a larger portfolio of lifelong learning services. I notice that all the parties support the free principle, it is very good, and it is at the bottom. But I would also like to stress that we need to have a review, because it is precisely the most important thing we do in order to be able to build up the barriers that are currently in the UH sector, and to have a more diverse provision of continuing education. Now three proposals for the arrangement of this regulation have been sent to the hearing, and we are eagerly waiting for good input into how this can be done in the best possible way, so that it is flexible and predictable for those who offer and those who demand continuing training. For more adults to be able to take up education while they are at work, we have made more changes in the Loan Fund over the last few years. We have removed the requirement to study at least 50 pst. To get support, we've increased the age limit to receive support, and we've given more groups extra loans. This will make it possible to combine work, family and education and to learn more than once in life. This flexibility is not just about geography, because it is as important for young children’s parents in Oslo as it is for a self-employed person in Smøla. At the same time, we know that many communities today experience recruitment problems and lack of access to skills, and it limits the possibilities for business development and service provision. We are therefore very pleased that the government has announced that they will present a strategy for decentralised and flexible education, so that more people can access education regardless of where they live. We have a very large decentralised study location structure in Norway today. We have 21 universities and about 60 universities, but the need for greater accessibility, more diversity and more flexibility is absolutely present, just to ensure that more people can study independently of the situation. This has also been the priority of the government and the Stortinget over several years, through, among other things. rather powerful incentives from Diku, which have enabled universities and colleges to apply for more flexible education and pilots. During the pandemic, further action has been taken through the Education promise to ensure that more people have access to continuing training, including: a sharp increase in the number of places of study at universities, colleges and specialised schools. This year, it's a record number of college students. This is quite concrete action we have already taken to make the education sector available. However, this Communication will, in addition to it, ensure that there is also more practice and relevance to established basic education. The policy field is the intersection of the UH sector with the labour market. In some studies, we know that there is a shortage of places of practice, including: in the health and social sciences. That is why it is very good that this communication is clear that perhaps private people should also be invited to help more people have a practical place, as well as to strengthen the responsibilities of municipalities. At the same time, it is very important not to view practices as traditional ones, but to be able to disseminate practical experience in more than one education. Discipline training can also provide useful perspectives and learning. It is very positive if more students get relevant practice as a time-limited stay in different relevant establishments. The students are future workers, employers and job creators, and then we need to have a better link between the UH sector and working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1235	I record the case rapporteur talking about the major cuts that have been in the ABE reform. I just want to remind you that the Workers' Party has been involved in these cuts every year – budgeted with the savings and spent the money – except that they have halved the cuts for 2021. So while they were once hypocritical, they're now only half hypocritical. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has presented a major report on the relevance of working life in higher education. It is important to strengthen and systematise cooperation between higher education and the labour market, to get more and better practices, to review the self-payment regulations and changes in the Loan Fund, etc., as the representative Mathilde Tybring-Gjedde mentioned. If we are to ensure future value creation, the education sector must have a framework for accessing skilled labour to value-creating industries such as oil and gas, marine industries, maritime industries, finance, industry, etc. Other pillars of the welfare community, such as school and health, also have a major need for labour, which the education sector needs to provide. The theme of the message is important, and we notice that more people are looking for more concrete solutions. We in the Progress Party do not entirely disagree with that criticism, but it is an important point that the report on the relevance of working life must be seen in conjunction with other messages, such as the ongoing management message, but also the quality message and not least the reform of competence, which was adopted before the summer of last year. At that time, the Progress Party was given a majority, with both the opposition and the government parties, of several important measures to strengthen cooperation between educational institutions and working life. I would particularly like to refer to what was also raised by the representative Sandberg, namely the agreement between the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Centre Party. We were given a majority of changes in higher education funding systems and put in place a factor that adds to increased work relevance and relevant post-secondary work. We are committed to strengthening cooperation between social and labour life in higher education, and to making tailored study provision, better suited to the needs of the labour market. Our proposal would put in place a more committed cooperation with industry that could in the long term have positive ring-effects, both on the dimensioning of study provision, on the content of education itself and on achieving the goal of more and better practice. The Progress Party is very disappointed that the government has so far failed to reach this majority decision in the Storting, but we note that the Management Board Communication announces that a comprehensive review is to be carried out with a view to achieving the objectives mentioned in the request decision adopted before the summer. Otherwise, we have noticed that the OECD warns against international developments, where there is an increasing gap between higher education and the labour market demand. Increasing distance between academia and real life must be countered, and here this message is an important building block. It gives clear signals about the societal tasks of the education sector and the importance of cooperation between the academia and the practical and value-creating working life. Finally, a little heart attack: there might have been fewer messages and strategies. Better work should be done to cover the issues in a larger message. I am sure that you could perfectly combine both the management message and this message as a larger, aggregated message. At the same time, we should like to see higher vocational education as part of the same work. But we note that the government has chosen a different method. We look forward to presenting our own strategy for higher vocational education before the summer. At the same time, we look forward to presenting our own strategy for decentralised and flexible education.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1250	The central party believes that the government knows how to describe the challenges, but offers too few solutions. Right-wing speeches so far in the debate underline that point. The notification reflects expectations of other actors, but conservative measures and instruments that are not comprehensive or obligatory enough to achieve the key national objectives described. Just clarifying the concept of ‘relevance in working life’ would be a milestone and a good grip — but no. The central party believes that the government is depriving itself of responsibility and hardly promotes new policies. There are investigations and repetitions of political action we have heard of before. Nor do they deliver on Stortinget’s decision of the competence reform in 2020 with a clear order for occupational relevance in higher education for funding purposes. The right is concerned with adversity and downsizing in time, and that competence is the solution. But trust, party cooperation, work life, and employees are the liquid gold that lubricates the machinery and keeps the wheels going. Everyone agrees on objectives and objectives, but now ambitions must gradually be followed up with funding. We cannot expect institutions to finance this within the framework, while increasing capacity, developing new offers and more continuing training, and making them more effective in line with the ABE cuts. Policy is already underfunded today, and now we are going to have more practice. The Centre Party has long pointed out the need for more and better practices for all students and a review of funding. We lack a concrete commitment to go through the category positions that are a prerequisite for funding better practices. A decentralised structure is essential for lifelong learning for all and more use of practice and hospitation. Continuous and close cooperation with industry and the labour market is being sought. The institutions must then be present and present at regional level. Vocational schools are not covered by the notification, and it is alarming that the general working life and the NHO competence survey specifically show enormous demand for this particular competence. There is a lack of the escalation plan and the development of higher vocational education for which the Centre Party was impressed in the competence reform last year. The government's warned strategy is too weak and too undercommittal when it comes to dealing with a message that could have had even heavier grips, so here we have to have clearer thoughts and heavier suggestions for the way forward. The right also boasts here in the debate of many applicants for the vocational schools, but actions in the communication we are now discussing are absent. In addition, I will use the opportunity to highlight important values of work relevance. Among other things, Norwegian technical languages, both book goals and new Norwegian languages, need to be continued. The free principle is absolutely fundamental. Flexible and decentralised higher education across the country is what is needed for everyone to have equal opportunities throughout the country. Finally, I would also like to highlight the importance of both ICT and healthcare, where the need is enormous for society for decades to come – and right now. There is an important point from the perspective message and other parts of society that need to be addressed through higher education — as in the case of work relevance. For example, the centre party believes that: that the legalisation of local authorities' responsibilities for guiding the practice of health and social students in municipal activities will help to ensure the precious competence and quality of education and practices needed to meet the future in a good way and that education and training are labour-related. With that, I will address the proposal of which the Central Party is a part and which has not been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1267	The representative Marit Knutsdatter Strand has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1272	Employment is changing rapidly, and higher education needs to meet both current and future needs. As a back ground for this message, it is clear to me that we need to have the OECD warnings against international developments where there is an increasing gap between higher education and the labour market demand. The OECD has pointed out that higher education in Norway is too weak to link to the labour market and that the students are offered little practice. Like the representative Knutsdatter Strand, I believe that the government has presented a message that describes the challenges, but comes with few solutions. The communication reflects their expectations for other actors, but does not even provide important measures and instruments to achieve the national targets described. In particular, I would like to point out in three areas the government's policy does not deliver what they preach: Firstly, the government’s red tape and efficiency reform has reduced the budgets of universities and colleges over several years. This has given the sector a reduced scope for economic action in order to strengthen the relevance of employment and to solve the broad societal challenge. Secondly, we in SV believe that there is a clear weakness in the notification that higher vocational education in the vocational schools is not covered by the notification – despite the fact that the labour force is asking for vocational education and training. Thirdly, practice strengthens the quality of higher education. It can increase the motivation of students and make the transition from education to working life more flexible. Over the years, students have agreed that they want more practice and that working life is also asking for this. Again, the OECD confirms that Norwegian higher education is too weak to link to the labour market and that lack of practice is a weak point in Norwegian higher education. And then I have to talk to capital letters! The government is notifying changes to the self-payment regulation. The free principle of education is strong in Norway. Today, the Law of Higher Education states that State universities and higher education institutions cannot ‘require own-payments from students for ordinary education leading to a degree or vocational education’. I am terribly afraid that the notified review of the self-payment regulation will threaten the free principle of higher education. When opening higher education to lifelong learning, the government must not restrict access to education. We in SV will not support schemes that require students or employees to pay for all continuing education through life itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1293	I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in this room on the importance of both dialogue and systematic cooperation between universities and colleges, national and municipal activities, private business and voluntary sector, for knowledge, competence and cross-sectoral and inter-disciplinary cooperation are important for society's ability to convert, to innovation, to value creation and for societal development as a whole. More systematic cooperation between educational institutions, businesses and the public is a win-win for all parties and offers an incredible number of new opportunities. While increasing the relevance of working life is important, let me stress: at the same time, universities must be free, research must be free, and the principle of free is fundamental. People have different needs through life. Both in public services, in business and in different parts of the country, there are different challenges in acquiring relevant competences. That's why the commitment to flexible and decentralised education is so incredibly important, and I look forward to the strategy that the government comes up with. It is important that students are well prepared for transition to work. Then we must both ensure that education has learning methods similar to what is done in working life, we must have closer cooperation between working life and education, and we must have more and better practices in education. There's also a lot to pick up for students, institutions, businesses and the public. And not least, there is a lot to learn about strengthening the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in higher education. Entrepreneurship is a way of thinking. It is about creating the new green jobs of the future, about research not only in a drawer, but also about new knowledge and ideas for new value creation and jobs, ensuring the necessary transition and addressing both current challenges and challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1303	The report on the relevance of working life in the university and higher education sectors contains a number of assessments and measures to provide the basis for the achievement of this government's objective of strengthening quality and labour relevance in higher education. The message seeks to facilitate a clearer relationship with the labour market for more students than at present during the course of the studies. It's positive. However, this also requires broader dialogue and more systematic cooperation, between universities and colleges and businesses, both in the country and municipality, private business and voluntary sector. Students will now be better able to meet a society and work in transition and change. The aim of the communication is to strike a good balance between training courses that meet the needs of the labour market here and now, and training courses that prepare candidates for future jobs, including jobs that do not yet exist, and which thus currently have unknown skills needs. The Communication addresses many good and necessary measures that will ensure better links between the UH sector and business. We believe that universities and colleges have a social mission to train students who meet the skills needs of the labour market, and with a rapidly changing working life, higher education needs to meet both current and future needs in a better way than one does today. This makes this message a brave message that the Christian People's Party is delighted to stand behind. Increased availability of higher education is important throughout the country. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that one of the strengths of this Communication is that it is linked to the strategy to ensure more decentralised and flexible education – to new university and higher education laws, and to the funding system of the UH sector for the future. We need access to higher education across the country. Different individuals have different needs throughout their lives. The fact that business and public services in different parts of the country have different prerequisites for acquiring relevant skills, we need to meet them in a better way in the future. This is precisely why we believe that decentralised education is essential both for the local economy and for the community. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that this message relates to the government's new strategy for decentralised education and flexible education. Because although the university and higher education sectors today can be said to have a decentralised structure, with a total of 21 state universities and colleges and about 60 places of study, the digital world offers new opportunities to further develop and further facilitate higher education in and for the whole country. This will increase contact between educational institutions and working life, provide a closer and better transition between each student and employee. The aim must be to make higher education more accessible, including for students who, because of their place of residence or their situation, do not have the opportunity to study regularly at a campus. It also contributes to increased and more stable recruitment of important professions across the whole country. We need an accessible higher education. The Christian People's Party will therefore highlight the importance of the free principle in the UH sector in order to ensure that all in Norway have the opportunity to take higher education regardless of social background. We have to hold on to that. The principle of free choice is a pillar of higher education in Norway, which we have to rely heavily on. At the same time, we believe that we need to be responsive when both the University Council and the KS believe that the legislation in which this is based makes it difficult to offer lifelong learning today. In order to ensure lifelong learning and freedom of choice in higher education, we therefore believe that we must dare to make assessments and changes when there are obvious reasons for doing so. That's why we support a review of the self-payment regulation, from this perspective. The Christian People's Party will be involved in ensuring that more state institutions can offer a wider range of services to an enlarged audience. We believe that more relevant practices — such as this one. have been tested at the UiA with good results – also will create more relevant studies and bring work and academia into closer and more fruitful contact with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1320	When the work on this big message started in the spring of 2019, the starting point was that universities and colleges had to cooperate more closely with the world of work in order for us to be equipped to meet the major societal challenges ahead of us. In the past year, the main challenges have been faced and the most comprehensive change Norway has experienced in peacetime has been called for. I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a thorough examination of the notification. I am pleased that we share the view on the importance of wider dialogue with universities, universities and businesses in both the state and the municipality, private business and voluntary sector. Knowledge, competence and cooperation across sectors and disciplines are central to Norway’s ability to convert, innovation, value creation and societal development. There is already a lot of good cooperation between higher education and the labour market in Norway and there are many examples of this in the notification. Still, there are challenges. International comparisons suggest that Norwegian higher education has too weak labour market correction. For example, the OECD points out: in order to ensure that students are not given the opportunity to practise. The students also believe that there is too much opportunity for them to get in touch with the workplace while they are studying. In order for students to be better able to meet a society and a working life in transition and change, higher education institutions and the labour market need to cooperate more systematically on what students learn and how they learn. In the Communication, we are raising four priorities and one horizontal theme: Firstly, actors must strengthen cooperation. Educational institutions and the labour market have to assume that cooperation is a win-win. There is a lot of time and resources being spent in cooperation today, but it has to be expanded and systematised. And it's important that all good forces mobilize. Therefore, I would like to sign an agreement of intent with the University and Higher Education Council, the social partners and the voluntary sector in June. The agreement shall mobilise cooperation and contribute to clarifying the joint learning and development ambitions of the parties. Secondly, higher education must become even more open and accessible. Universities and colleges must take into account the different needs of individuals through life, and the different challenges facing public services and businesses in different parts of the country to acquire relevant competences. We will continue to invest in flexible education, and before the summer we will launch a strategy for flexible and decentralised education. Thirdly, in order for students to be well prepared for the transition to a working life in transition, the government will stimulate more use of student-active learning forms, especially learning forms similar to those carried out in the workplace. We will continue to stimulate such forms of learning and strengthen cooperation between working life and education. Fourthly, more and better practice is needed. More students will have relevant practices — i.e. time-limited stays in relevant establishments — during the studies. This applies both to students in vocational education with a high level of mandatory practice and to students in education without long tradition of practice. We will investigate how municipalities and private actors can be given greater responsibility for receiving practical students in health and social education. And the ministries and state businesses will take the lead in offering student practice. And then last, but not least: it is necessary to strengthen the culture of innovation and entrepreneurship in higher education. This requires cross-sectoral and cross-disciplinary cooperation and contact. The four areas of action will contribute to a more open university and higher education sector, labour-related learning modes and closer inter-sectoral contacts. I believe that this will build a culture of innovation and entrepreneurship and make students better able to develop and create the working life of the future. For Norway, the normal situation in the years preceding the pandemic has been low unemployment. Most higher education students have received relevant jobs, and both employers and students have, in general, been satisfied with their education. Those who are students today have had to deal with an entirely abnormal study day, and what becomes the new normal when they go out to work will also change. The future is uncertain. However, this Communication calls on the university and higher education sectors and the labour market to cooperate more and better than they do today, in order to increase the relevance of education and to improve the ability of students to meet a society and working life in transition and change. The students are future employees, employers and job creators.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1363	There is no lack of descriptions in this Communication, but a good part of action is missing. The problems we face require a government that takes action. The quality reform was to improve the quality and flow of higher education, but today it is still the case that every third student does not complete after eight years. Year after year, the Student Survey shows that students lack follow-up, guidance, digital tools and practices. The government has left a great deal to the colleges to solve the problems of ABE-cut budgets. We in the Labour Party have proposed better economy and measures for better study quality, more practice, better digital solutions and increased study intensity. We fear that this message will remain at the intention stage, that it will not make a difference for the students. Four years ago, the humanities report came, if so. the relevance of the humanities. Can the Council of State point to the main changes that have been made in order to increase the quality and implementation rate of the humanistic studies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1370	Let me start by answering a little bit of the description the representative gives of how we control this sector, and also what goes on in the message. Firstly, there are 21 concrete measures in this Communication. The way we control the university and higher education sectors means that we have some expectations, but we also provide a very free framework, both economically and in governance. This is why we have submitted a management message that says that we should control more and less in the small. I also see in the speeches by the representatives before my speech that, on the one hand, there is a great deal of talk about trust reform, that you do not like the expectations of efficiency, etc., but then you ask that I, as the Council of State, go in and organize in detail how to organise what is the main point of this message, namely to ensure that we get more work relevance. I believe that the measures we put in place to coordinate the areas of practice, what we are doing to ensure that more people get practice, and that the country goes ahead, are important measures to ensure that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1379	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Then it's probably good to say that the clear commitment to humanities that some hope would get into the wake of the humanities message did not come. Norway needs humanities to meet the major societal challenges. It is needed in the workplace, in public debate and in school. Now, fortunately, more people are applying to the humanities, and then a government is needed to set goals and follow up with resources and bets. We in the Workers' Party say that we want a stepping-up plan for places of study in the long-term plan for research and higher education. The government's increase in study places is time-limited and temporary. The government has clarified that the current capacity should be reduced when the coronary crisis is over. Then I would like to hear what is the government's plan for permanent investment in study places throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1388	What we've done, quite correctly, during the coronary crisis, is to increase capacity by 4,000 places of study in the year we're about to leave behind – in June. There have been 12,000 more students than it was the year before. This means that although we have allocated money to 4,000 new places of study, even more have been offered education. At the same time, when we say that we're going to see if we're going to bring some of the capacity down, that doesn't mean that it's the same places of study that we've now set up. But there's a ceiling on the balance between quality in education and how many students we can have in. Having said that, in the long-term plan for research and higher education, which we are now rolling, and which is a work to be carried forward until the fall of 2022, the discussion of dimensioning and the direction of study we are going to focus on in the future is a very important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1397	I thank the Council of State for the answer and hope he will follow up this with the escalation plan. Cooperation between educational institutions and the parties is less developed in Norway than in the Nordic countries, the notification states. Building on and further developing the Norwegian model is in itself a reason for closer cooperation between higher education and working life. The Norwegian model, of course, promotes adaptability and innovation, and it is necessary to meet the rapid changes that are now taking place in both labour and society. But this is not a theme in the message. Here I believe the Council of State gets a clear defect. To the point: The Workers' Party believes that students should learn in practice about the organised working life, the role of party cooperation, etc. Does the Council of State agree that it should be part of the practice now when more students are going into practice, or does the Council of State consider that knowledge of the Norwegian model should not be included in the education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1406	Clearly, the Norwegian model, the fact that we have tripartite cooperation, is a very important reason for both the adaptability in Norway, the tidy working life we have, and the compressed pay structure we have. It's very important that you also learn about it. I would argue that being out in practice at a workplace is also a training in how working life is organised. It's a way of learning how to deal with each other, and how the parties are an important part of how we develop the world of work. But shall I, as the Council of State, then go in and say that they must learn about the tripartite cooperation in this and this way when they have practice? I often hear in debates and readers in reading articles that we must have a trust reform in higher education too. Then the question is, do we think that practice leads to more people learning about the world of work, how it works, how the parties work, or should we politicians go in and regulate how the students should learn?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1415	The centre party has been surprised that the importance of well-developed decentralised structure is not more emphasised in the notification. We have both the district industry committee and the demographic committee who have recently pointed out that decentralised education is one of the most important measures to stop relocation, and emphasise that full-fledged higher education institutions in the districts are important, not least for the basis of business and working life throughout the country. Do the Council of State agree that maintaining a decentralised structure is necessary to ensure the relevance of working life and to address the needs of business and working life for skills, research and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1423	At least I am absolutely convinced that having a flexible and decentralised education in Norway is important. Then the representative is particularly concerned about the structure. And as has been said in several articles, we have a lot of institutions -- almost 60 universities -- we have a lot of colleges, we have different places where people study. I believe that not only should one look at the structure itself, which should be decentralised, but it is also a expectation that institutions should take account of regional needs when organising study structures. But the most important thing is to use all the amazing opportunities that, after all, are in technology and in the pedagogics that have now been developed for more decentralised flexible education, by publishing funds through Diku to develop these offers to also ensure that you can train across the country. Then you can probably ask that it was mentioned in this message. Now we come up with our own strategy, and I see that representatives are asking for it to come to Stortinget. The measures we are proposing there will also be mentioned in the budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1430	When the government is now going to revise the self-payment regulation, there has been great concern in the sector that the government should allow for self-payment in higher education. Technology, among other things, is very critical of the signals contained in this Communication to make self-payment legislation more flexible and open so that state universities and colleges can provide more education for self-payment. I share this turmoil. The free principle of education is strong in Norway today. Can the Minister guarantee that the free principle is established even after the evaluation to the government is over?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1437	The short answer to that is yes, it's in the Law of Higher Education. We have now also proposed some changes to the Law on Higher Education, but we do not propose to change it. It was actually the Bondevik II government, which consists of the same three parties that are now in government, which promised this in the UH Act. So I can promise the representative to be firm. What we're really discussing, and I understand that there can be a discussion about this, is whether the institutions can use some of the material or lectures they give to those students who are going to have free education, to the education that is continuing education, and for which they can charge. This is happening today, it is happening in institutions, it is allowed in some areas, but we want to give it a bigger opportunity, simply because both employees, employers and not least the institutions themselves say that this is what makes it most difficult for them to offer more relevant continuing training.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1444	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1451	More cooperation between employment and business and the academia is necessary both for labour supply and for the academics to train candidates who are relevant and attractive for the working and business life of today and tomorrow. Lifelong learning is necessary to meet a galloping technology development in business. Each of us will have to fill up with competence as the needs arise. We therefore need to provide better facilities for continuing education. In Norway, we are so lucky that we have free education funded through basic funding and academic award to universities and universities. However, this does not cover continuing training in most cases. Problems arise when offering courses for business with self-payment that offer both study credits and are identical to courses included in ordinary courses of study, and want these courses to be able to be attended to a degree by a government institution, while the participants do not apply for admission and qualify in the usual way. With few exceptions, this is not possible. In other words, it is difficult to get outside the self-payment regulation when the free principle is to be enforced. I am pleased that the government will review the legislation, which makes it difficult to offer lifelong learning within the current framework, while respecting the free principle. However, there is no need to facilitate payment beyond the ordinary admission rules. Making higher education more accessible must not mean a reduction in quality or level. More and better practice is a good goal, which gives students valuable experience and in many cases contributes to better learning outcomes, while at the same time facilitating the transition from the study to working life. Practice is very important, but unfortunately it has become a bottleneck that makes it difficult to train more health professionals. In recent years, health education has used simulations to prepare students for practice and with good results. Simulation can be used for patient studies, prepare students for dramatic situations under safe conditions and train students to cooperate as a team. A review of practices in terms of the learning outcomes of students after an end to practice, where to learn, and the period of practice needed to achieve learning outcomes has long been called for in the sector. I am therefore very pleased that the Department now announces that a desire to engage in dialogue with other EEA countries to look at the possibilities for changing the Professional Qualifications Directive, to see if simulation can replace parts of practice. It can, together with a better use of the municipal health and care sector, help to open this bottleneck.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1464	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1481	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1488	A little bit more joy in my position as a magnificent than when I can be involved and contribute to the fact that we politicians on the Stortinget together take action to achieve an improvement that makes a difference to people. That is why it has been very rewarding to be the case rapporteur in this case, working so that we can get together on some common good proposals, which we have made clear, and which will definitely lead to improvements and make a difference for the consumer – in this case all the current customers, which are many. I would therefore like to thank the whole Committee for the good cooperation in this matter, and not least the proponents of the Progress Party who raised the problem of the real problems that consumers have in our electricity market, with good proposals for solving them. I would also like to thank the Workers' Party, which contributed to the Committee ending up with further tightening requirements for the electricity companies. This has to happen, as the Consumer Council has shown that most people do not know whether they have an expensive or cheap contract, and there is also much weaker competition in the electricity market than many think, as confirmed by a recent report from Oslo Economics. The Hearing Officers of the Houses, and not least the Consumer Council, have, not surprisingly, supported the proposal, and the Consumer Council has even, after the Committee has given its opinion, called the decisions we are promoting here today in the Chamber, for historical ones. And they have said that they want to secure a power market where consumers can easily choose the best contracts without risking being tricked. The Committee supports a total of three proposals for decisions today, and the first is perhaps the most important. It's like: ‘The government is asking for a new mandatory price information/unit price on electricity so that consumers can easily compare prices across all types of contracts and thus ensure that consumers can make informed choices.’ The Committee has noted that the flow unit price is to be disclosed as an ear per kilowatt hour paid in addition to the current market price of Nord Pool. Otherwise, the Committee considers that the new mandatory price information measure will be of little intervention. This is price information that everyone who sells electricity can quickly be required to disclose. They already report minimum price duration of the service Strompreis.no. The Committee agrees on two other proposals for decisions. One is as follows: ‘The government is requesting that, in the event of a change of agreement, the electricity companies be required to inform electricity customers in good time and through clearly marked information.’;» And the last one is: ‘The government is asked to provide mandatory information on the minimum duration of the price of a power contract. This price information shall be disclosed on the electricity bill and on all sales and marketing of electricity.» Finally, I would like to stress, as the Committee, that none of the three proposals makes provision for more electricity contracts to have a binding period. With that, I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1523	This is a day when you can say that consumers have received a victory. And it was high time. It should almost be lacking that it would not be possible for consumers to know what it costs, the purchaser, and especially in the case of goods that are as long and as necessary as electricity. The Consumer Council has addressed this issue several times, and several suppliers have changed practices with a background in the pressure from the Consumer Council. But some have not changed their practices. It is not a good policy that we who sit here on the Stortinget cannot take better care of consumers. That is why I am very pleased that both the Progress Party promoted this proposal and that we finally got a unanimous committee that says that we cannot have that practice anymore. It's worth noting, I think, that in the time we live now, with the international market and with a lot of information, it's sometimes important that we take a foot in the ground and think of the situation of consumers, so that they can get more transparent agreements, that they get more predictable price deliveries, and that competition between electricity companies becomes good and for the benefit of consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1532	Let me start by thanking the proposers for a good and very relevant representative proposal. Most of us have probably managed more than once to mess us up in the electricity market and ended up with an agreement that is worse than the one we realized we were promised. The Consumer Council has for a long time been clear that they believe that power companies often trick customers into marketing variable contracts. They provide examples such as the guarantee price and the guaranteed good annual price. The Consumer Council considers it almost impossible for consumers to compare electricity contracts, and they have called for a simple and uniform price for all electricity contracts and a requirement to inform about the duration of the price of a minimum contract. The Consumer Council reports that almost half of Norwegian electricity customers feel cheated when they have purchased electricity, and that only one in four consumers know what they themselves pay for the power. Government parties are concerned that provision should be made for consumers to have sufficient information to make good choices in a well-functioning electricity market. At the same time, it is right to point out that a number of processes have been initiated, the aim of which is to ensure that electricity companies inform clearly and through it ensure that consumers are able to make informed and informed choices. The industry itself has initiated a certification scheme called Safe Power Trading. The Energy Regulatory Authority and the Consumer Authority have been mandated in their letters of assignment to assess measures to improve the consumer electricity market. The Authority has announced that it will make proposals to the Ministry before the summer on current changes to consumer protection legislation. However, we also see the need for rapid legislative clarification and tightening in order to better protect consumers' interests. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee agrees that a simple and uniform price must be put in place for all contracts – in the same way as effective interest rates on loans or the price of litres on petrol, in order to draw up some examples – that it must be mandatory to disclose the duration of the price of a minimum supply contract and that, in the event of a change in the contract, the electricity companies must inform the electricity customer in good time and through clearly marked information. This is in many ways a historic day for Norwegian power customers. It will be much easier to be a customer after an overall growth has now agreed on measures for a more consumer-friendly electricity market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1547	Today, the Progress Party ensures a solid majority for proposals to simplify the electricity market. To that end, I would like to congratulate first and foremost all consumers out there, because what we are adopting today is primarily their victory and not ours in this Chamber. On a number of previous occasions, the Consumer Council has found that there are major information gaps in the Norwegian electricity market. The electricity companies have long had unbridled prices and conditions, which has made it difficult for the electricity customers to inform themselves. The majority of us here today, the three proposals that have been referred to by several people, are helping to simplify the electricity market to make it easier for consumers to choose the best electricity contract. Of course, I am satisfied with the success of the Progress Party to make the electricity market much more transparent for the consumer. Simplification now makes it easier for consumers to get involved in the different power contracts offered. I am convinced that this will also increase competition among electricity suppliers. For too long it has been what I would call a totally unsustainable situation for the power customers, who have experienced to a large extent a young person of different conditions and limited information about prices. I'm very pleased that this rainbow alliance of parties in the hall today ensures more transparency, so it'll just be easier for consumers and power customers to orient themselves. It is also very nice that not all good proposals are included in the Progress Party, are voted down because it comes from us. It is a bit enjoyable in this committee that when the Progress Party makes good proposals, we can sit down and discuss and come up with good solutions together. So I want to give an extra thank you to the whole committee for being as constructive as you've been in this case, precisely because most people out there benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1560	Power shall be easy to trade. We don't need custom power, we don't need power in different shapes or colors, with different qualities or different speeds. All we need is stable electricity in the wall every day at the lowest price possible. The ability of consumers to choose between different products in the same market is usually a sign of health. This means that entrepreneurs are developing new and better solutions for the benefit of consumers. The electricity market is an example of over-innovation in business and too many consumer choices. There are now about 250 electricity contracts within the overview of the electricity price.no at the Consumer Council. Complaint statistics tell of aggressive marketing and widespread feelings of dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with consumers. In light of market challenges, through the Energy Regulatory Authority in 2020, we commissioned a report from Oslo Economics on the theme and possible measures and solutions. The report points to several challenges. Among other things, consumers find it challenging to be informed about contractual terms and prices in the longer term and initially have limited interest and awareness of the product and the price. Oslo Economics clearly states that the consumer electricity market is clearly different from other subscription markets. The oil and energy minister and I asked the Consumer Protection and the Energy Regulatory Authority to review the recommendations in the report and propose the measures in question to remedy the situation. The recommendations of the supervisory authorities are likely to be clear before the summer. The request The size will now be adopted consists of three measures to improve the situation of consumers in the electricity market. First, the government is asked to introduce new mandatory price information, or unit price, on stream. Secondly, the Government of the United Kingdom is asking for a strengthened information requirement for the electricity companies in the event of a change in the contract with the consumer. And third, the government is asked to introduce mandatory information on how long the price of a power agreement minimum goods. These three requests are intended to improve the performance of consumers in the electricity market, and I share that intention wholeheartedly with the Committee. And just since we agreed on the challenges, and in addition, the government is following up the report from Oslo Economics, I believe that the request decision from Stortinget will open doors. In addition, the professional assessments of the Energy Regulatory Authority and the Consumer Authority are chosen to be pre-empted in relation to what should be done to improve the situation and which are expected in a short time. I will continue to work to simplify and improve the electricity market for the benefit of consumers, and of course I will follow up on the request decisions and keep the Storting properly informed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1584	I am very pleased that the Council of State's own party is of course involved in supporting the proposals today. If I understand correctly, he fully agrees with the intention that something should be done here, but that more time should be spent. Then I wonder: How long does the Council of State think that consumers should sit and wait to be better cared for?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1589	As I said in my post, last year we chose through the Energy Regulatory Authority to order a report from Oslo Economics because we saw the challenge picture, as I also think the representative was well elaborated in his post. That report has come, and we have asked the Consumer Protection Authority and the Energy Regulatory Authority to review the recommendations and take further action. They are likely to arrive before summer, and that is a short time. This means that they have then gone through the Committee's work and made a thorough assessment of it. The various recommendations and assessments will then be on the table. So this will come in a very short time, and I agree with the representative in is very good, because the market is too inconspicuous now. It's not just easy to find good deals, and many people will also feel cheated. We can't do that, and that's why we're going to follow this up to ensure that consumers get better transparency and better electricity contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1594	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1614	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up for the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1621	I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation on the proposal from the Progress Party to give full freedom to distribute the leave among themselves – a matter that gives rise to a great deal of commitment, which also resulted in a record of hearing responses. Family policies shall support family life and provide families with the opportunity to organise their own lives. This is why the government has implemented a number of measures that have benefited families. Child welfare has increased by $8,200 a year for the youngest children. The one-off benefit has been increased by more than NOK 55 000, and the cash support has increased to NOK 7 500 per month. The government has also extended parental leave for those who give birth to more than one child or if two children are adopted at the same time. Several parties have now programmed that they want to be in favour of independent exit rights for father, so it is well possible that this will become a reality in the long term. As a family-political spokesman for the Christian People's Party, I must be quite clear that today's distribution of leave does not work. The rigid third is that some fathers are not allowed to take leave at all, and many mothers are pressured into work when the child is only seven months old. The system that came into existence in the name of equality leads paradoxically enough to the opposite. Many mothers now take unpaid leave with all that it involves in the loss of pension credits and in the loss of other important rights. Several tens of thousands of young children's parents around the country have said clearly that this is not possible, and we must listen to that. I can well recognise the intention of the proposers in this matter. I also hope that in the long term we can give parents the free distribution of parental leave, but for the time being there is something premature. If we completely remove the father's quota, it's very likely that we see a drastic decrease in the number of fathers taking leave at all, and we can't risk that. It's about a lot of things, like that it can be a lower acceptance to take out parental leave in many human-dominated professions, and that men usually serve the best. Babies need parents who are involved from the start, who are safe on the whole role of care and everything it involves in food, care, care and routines. That is why I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party has now adopted a brighter and more flexible parental leave with four additional leave weeks for free distribution, and that ten weeks should be reserved for mother and father individually. The leave shall also be easier to transfer between parents, one of whom for different reasons does not have the possibility to withdraw its part of the leave. So this is a very good and a well-worked distribution of leave that takes into account central considerations, such as mother's biological speciality in the early days, but also the father's important role in caring for the child. The Christian People's Party will always strengthen the families, not govern them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1636	Now we're getting closer to campaigning. We notice that in this room when there are really none of the government parties that are in charge of today's permit arrangement. The fact that we in Norway have the right to be home for a year with children is one of the finest welfare systems we have. The fact that the families with both father and mother or co-mother are secure time with their child in the first important phase of life is enormously valuable, primarily for the child, who gets a safe and good start on life, and the best opportunities in the world to relate to both parents. Yes, a long and good parental leave with a strong father's quota ensures the child's relationship with both mother and father or co-mother, it makes fathers more involved in the home, it allows mother to go back to work before the child goes to kindergarten, and it contributes to safe, good and equal families. When the proposers now want to scrap the third of the leave and talk about it being in the name of freedom of choice, it is a bombardment, because what the Progress Party here is doing is in practice just taking from Norwegian fathers the right to leave. It is so convincingly proven from our neighbouring country and here at home too, precisely because of the Progress Party – Right-Registration cut in the paperwork in 2014, that fathers are still not seen as equivalent caregivers of the system and of society. The fathers only take out or get to just take out what the quota is. When the allowance increases, feathers take out more perm. When you cut the quota, they're going to cancel out. Why can't the parties and the Advance Party start listening to Norwegian fathers? They want a father's quota. Defend the paperwork, they say. Yes, it must be defended – against employers who do not think that father should be at home and against mothers who want leave themselves. Unfortunately, freedom of choice is not real. Fathers need a good quota to join the table to be allowed to participate in this important time at home with the children. Then it's like the Progress Party suddenly, over the table, will bring in just too fathers to take out the common part even if mother doesn't have work to go into, that's, she's home at the same time. It is strange that now, as it approaches election struggle, both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are concerned about this. For the Workers' Party, that's not what we're fundamentally against. This is simply an economic priority. Yes, you can be absolutely honest about that – we hope we get there. But I would like to end by reminding you that the only thing that this government, including the Advance Party while they've been in government, has delivered to fathers about the first time with the child, is cut in the paper commission. Luckily, the opposition got back the spring quota in 2016, but that is not the government's profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1649	The third division of parental leave is still under discussion. Thank you to the Progress Party that raises the question. It's really a nice debate to take. Norway has some of the world's best parental arrangements, and it's amazing that you can be home with your child for the first year. I have to add that it was not the opposition that returned a third that had gone back. It was actually the Granavolden statement that made you get it in, and the Yeluya statement before that, when the Left came into the government. But when that's said, the Right also wants to see if all the arrangements we have are working according to our intention. We say in our program that we want an evaluation and to look at further flexibility. We do so on the basis that we get messages from both entrepreneurs, the sole proprietors, and mothers, but there may also be fathers who actually want to be longer at home with their child, and then we have to have arrangements that make it possible. Then you could say that in a non-profit world you could have a free distribution, but it turned out that when you had a freer distribution, the dads were out in work. They didn't take out the leave. Maybe we should also start asking ourselves the question, why didn't they? What makes you think you didn't do it? I think it's about both employers' demands and perhaps more traditional thinking – that fathers are out and working, while mother is at home and is raising children – but we're past it now. That's why at least we believe that looking at and evaluating the plan is good. So to the Workers' Party, which went out with brawl and brawl – it was good in today's business – and said they would support the fathers' autonomous exit rights. It's just $650 million. I, as the representative of the Trettebergstuen, must also note that this is a choice. Now they've gone back on what they criticized the government for -- not granting these 650 million. NOK – so I do not know if the idea is that you should dispose of it for anything else. But at least I want to pay tribute to the Advancement Party for bringing this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1660	For information: I think it must be said from this pulpit today that it is women who bear children – it is not the state. You could almost believe that when you hear some of the speeches in this rather hot debate, which has gone for a while. But I think it's very strange that the Workers' Party is kicking so much against the Advance Party and what they have done to the fathers – the party that might have been the happiest in the whole matter of cohabitation, which was about standing up to thousands of fathers, who are mainly exposed to this. But for all intents and purposes, the representative of the Workers' Party has gone, so I'm not going to challenge it any more. I want to talk about why the solutions of the Advance Party are the best for most people out there. The Progress Party wants to give freedom to the families. So we know that there are other parties in this room who want to rule them. Of course, it's okay to have different ideologies, but that's exactly why it's very important that we have debates like the one we have today. One would almost think that the Progress Party had proposed to deprive fathers of anything. No, we haven't. What we've done is give families the opportunity to choose for themselves. In fact, we're also proposing to strengthen fathers' rights by granting autonomous withdrawal rights, which Mother has today. Why shouldn't fathers have the same rights as mothers? In 2021 at least the party of progress is crystal clear that fathers and mothers should be equal, and then voting later today will show how parties actually stand for equality. But we win. So what I think is problematic. When I was a few years ago and received thousands of signatures from families who protested against the introduction, or an increase, of the third, it was because it was against the conviction of the Progress Party, and today we have the result: more women are still taking unpaid leave, losing pension points, etc. Nor is there any strengthening of equality. So today we vote for freedom for the families and hope that the other parties think about it. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we have in common with the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1671	The representative Silje Hemdal then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1676	The parental death penalty scheme in Norway is one of the world's most expensive, but also in my opinion one of the most important schemes we have in Norway. It is a good thing for the children in their first year of life, and parents get a good start on their parenting when at least one of the parents can be home without losing large sums of money or risk losing their job, as many do in other countries when they choose to be home the first time after having a child. I also rank the parental pension scheme as one of the most important schemes we have, because it also contributes to a slightly more equal society, both for women and men in the roles of both workers and parents. It has long been a goal for the Centre Party to increase the father's association with the child in parental leave, and we believe that the latest extension of the father's quota is important for fathers to develop a good and close relationship with their children from birth. That's why in the Center Party we have programmed three-part parental leave, which means that we're not going to vote in favour of the Progress Party's proposal to go away from the third division, as it's proven – as many people have done – that most fathers actually don't get to take out more weeks of parental leave than the number they put in. And last time it was down in ten weeks, the fathers didn't take out more than ten weeks, even if they could. The third of the parental leave creates a debate. There has been a great deal of commitment in recent years from both professionals and individuals who believe that today's system is not good enough. That is why the Centre Party today is promoting the proposal we have also promoted in the past to evaluate today's system based on parents' experience, children's perspective, the health consequences for mother and the experience of breast-feeding as a result of the change in the parental quota. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority for that today. But one of the criticisms that have emerged recently is that Mother has a very special role in the first six weeks after birth. We are listening to this in the Central Party in the proposal for a new party programme, where we propose to designate the first six weeks to mother by taking these from the common part of the scheme, so that there is no doubt that we recognise both the mental and physical needs of mother and newborns after birth. But we don't want to degrade the father's role by taking these weeks from Dad's quota – it has to pass. On the other hand, in the proposal for a new batch programme, we are concerned that the parental pension scheme needs to become more flexible in view of the situation of families, and take much more account of self-employed people and workers and students who cannot take leave on a continuous basis. In the programme proposal, we will also continue our policy from the previous party programme that both parents should have the same right of withdrawal for parental leave. It's now an injustice and a bias, and it's not equality. That is why, of course, in the Central Party, we support the proposal in this case by the Progress Party that, on an independent basis, father be granted the right to withdrawal of parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1693	I will just briefly present the one proposal from SV in the case. The reason why we put in a separate proposal on the self-exemptive right of father is that there is a small difference between the proposal SV has submitted, and the proposal that the Progress Party subsequently distributed out of its original proposal. It's about the fact that we in SV want to start by giving father a self-exempt right equivalent to the spring quota. It also reflects the greater disagreement in the case, where SV opposes the removal of the paper and the third of the parental leave, as the Progress Party calls for. – Then I will take up the SV’s proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1700	The representative Freddy André Oberstegård has thus taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1705	Family policy is a tool to facilitate safe families and provide room for making good choices for themselves and their families. It shall not govern the families but shall facilitate the safekeeping of families through good financial arrangements and the freedom to organise its own daily life. The government has strengthened the family economy in several ways. We've made a historic leap for child welfare. It is now NOK 8,200 more a year for the youngest kids than it was in 2019. We have increased the one-off benefit by more than NOK 55 000, and the cash support has increased to NOK 7 500 per month. These are important schemes that strengthen the family economy and freedom of choice. The Norwegian parental leave scheme is red, and it is important to ensure a good and safe start in life for children. The government has made several important changes that have improved the scheme in recent years, including: with several weeks for multiple parents and those who have premature children. There is now also a proposal in the Storting to introduce a free deferral of parental leave, so that parents themselves can choose when to take out parental leave. This has been a challenge for especially many fathers, who have lost their weeks. The change, as the representatives wish, will provide a better and more flexible parental pension scheme. I get a lot of feedback about the leave system, and then often about the third. Many families feel that it is too rigid. It's no secret that my party, the Christian People's Party, is against today's third of the leave and wants to go back to a more flexible system. The third was introduced as part of the Jeløya platform in 2018, following negotiations between the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. And it's true, as the chairman of the committee says, that this was an important breakthrough for the Left Party, precisely because they wanted to strengthen equality and fathers' rights. In Stortinget it was only the Christian People's Party who voted against the proposal at that time. I see that the representatives of the Centre Party and the Progress Party are proposing to evaluate the third of the parental pension scheme. I am concerned that we are looking at the consequences of the third division, and therefore the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs has commissioned the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to investigate the parents' use of parental leave. Such a study will provide much of the knowledge the proposers want. The study could say something about the beneficiaries' withdrawals, the distribution of social security benefits, the use of unpaid leave, attitudes towards the allocation of allowances, etc. The proposal by the representatives to evaluate the third part will therefore be taken into account in that investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1726	The leave should be of benefit to parents – that is also the name of a Facebook group with over 33 000 members. This is just one of the groups that are working to get parents back the freedom of their own lives. Of course, you can talk about heads and ears and support schemes, but for many families, it's actually essential that they decide what is best for their own everyday lives. I understand that it is difficult for the Council of State, since he is in government, to agree with the Advance Party and support our proposals, but does the party leader of the Christian People's Party agree that the solution of the Advance Party to give families freedom of choice is the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1733	I see that the Vice-Chairman in the Left is sitting here and looking after, so I'm going to be very careful with what I'm answering from this pulpit! No – the representative Hemdal knows very well what both the party leader and the Christian People's Party think about this matter. So it's right, as the representative says, that this is part of the government platform. It entered the Jeleya platform in its time and was passed on to the Granavolden platform. This is why it is part of and a basis for government policy. But when I've been Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I've been busy looking at other possible changes that both strengthen the freedom of choice and the economy of families, and I think we've done that in a good way. And then the Christian People's Party's primary policy is known.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1740	We in the Central Party, together with the Progress Party, are promoting proposals for an evaluation. At the very end of his speech, the minister suggested that this was not necessary because it was already taken care of by the review of how parents use the scheme. Does he mean, then, that the child’s perspective, the health consequences for mother and the experience of breast-feeding are also included in that review? Is the evaluation that should have been carried out in this area being carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1745	As I said, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare is conducting that study, so all the elements listed by the representative are probably not part of the investigation. But very many of the moments that I think will be interesting, will be there. I'm not saying that someone can't promote that proposal and get a more thorough evaluation, but it's part of the parties that are very clear in their position, including the Center Party, as I see it, wants the third-part to be continued. Therefore, the question is why a person should spend a lot of time on an evaluation. As I said, my party is strongly opposed. What we've been busy about is looking at whether there are other adjustments that should possibly be made, related to what I was about how to take out, for example. Unpaid leave, which I think we all agree can be a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1754	Based on the information we now have, the center party is a third. But now there has been a great deal of commitment, where both professionals and some individuals point to what is related to health and breast-feeding – some of the things that the minister now confirms are not included in the review. In that case, I think that you are not really doing a good enough job of assessing whether that scheme is good enough. You can work with a system that takes care of these aspects better than what we might do now -- if we know and realize that what many say is a problem, actually, is a problem. How does the Minister think we're going to get enough knowledge of all the challenges that the big commitment to the scheme has shown? How are we gonna get this straight?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1761	After all, it has to be up to each party to find evidence that one believes is important and correct, based on both ideology and what is moving on the ground. I for my part and my party are very clear that we believe the easiest way to solve the challenges when families are so different is that families can be more able to determine the distribution themselves, and thus avoid getting into these difficult situations that some of the families experience, and that more people have been aware that many feedback shows. It is certainly possible to carry out different evaluations. The feedback from different groups, everything from the Soccer Association and others, is varied. There are arguments for, and there are arguments against, and there must be some way. But I believe that the study will provide many of the answers to what I believe the representative also asks. And then an absolute could have had an evaluation, but for my part I know what I mean, so I'm not going to recommend supporting that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1768	Stiff people in the LO and the Joint League have gone to battle to become better fathers and to stand up for their children when they are young. They presented negotiations on leave in relation to childbirth and were passed on. The Christian People's Party stands alone in the government about an old-fashioned position in equality policy and will obviously not listen to the progressive forces among men who will have increased contact with their children when they are young. And now, once again, Christian People's Party is saying something in the program, while in government they're working for something else. Can we trust that the Christian People's Party in government – even if they were to join the government once more – will work to make fathers more able to care for their children when they are young?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1773	I often think back on the fights we've taken – whether by fathers or mothers – to ensure the role of father. And as Minister for Children and Family Affairs, but also as a father, I think very often with great gratitude of the job that has been done, because fathers are incredibly important in the growing up of children. I could talk a lot about it. Therefore, I can guarantee the representative that when this government continues after the election, I will do what I can to ensure that families get more freedom of choice, and also that fathers will continue to have a unique role. I'm concerned that someone's going to take out parental leave. I'm concerned that one should make sure they get time with their kids. We're discussing very much the first year in this country, and it's a very important and vulnerable time for the kids, but I'm concerned that they'll have the opportunity to do it later. I guess that's, according to statistics I've seen, about. 20 pst. by fathers who charge cash support – I do not know the exact figure right now. It's an freedom of choice and an opportunity and a valuable priority that someone wants to do. That right will deprive the Workers' Party of them, and I will fight for them to have the opportunity to do that kind of priorities later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1780	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party here is a wheel that goes in the wrong direction, both in terms of government and in terms of progressive equality policies in society. When the Council of State says that he is dedicated to giving fathers a unique role, can I then understand that he will ensure that they are given an equidistant leave arrangement, or will the Council of State not participate in an equal leave arrangement? And in that case, what does the unique role consist of?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1787	I'm concerned with a modern family policy. A modern family policy is about giving families freedom of choice, because they are so different, there are so unique situations, and the kids are also very different. The fact that we're going to sit in here and decide that just like that, that I don't believe is the best or the most modern policy. I think the families are knowledgeable, that they're sensible, that they make choices for the benefit of their kids, and that's why I want to give them more influence. For the Christian People's Party: we want to give an extra perm week to the father related to birth, so one gets three weeks, because there's an extra vulnerable time. I think that's very important. Do I want to go in for an equal parental leave? No, I think a 50/50 share of parental leave is neither good equality nor good family policy, and that's because there's a big difference between women and men. Nor should one forget that too many people may also be demanding pregnancy, and the time after it is demanding. Therefore, I believe that the families, who are so different, must also be able to decide this much more for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1797	Now we have been given a clear explanation that the Christian People's Party is in favour both of its government colleagues and of the progressive equality forces in society. So when the government talks about freedom of choice, they're the only party, as far as I can understand, or almost the only thing – at least the only thing in the government – that thinks it's not about freedom of choice to have a greater equalization of leave. So I just want to encourage the Council of State to listen more to men, fathers, who are in the situation that they have children with whom they want to be more with, and who are not given the opportunity because the Christian People's Party presents some principles for its equality policy that does not embrace all families, but is an ideologically conditional decision that goes against modern equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1804	It is important to add that the government is behind the third division, and so do I, but as Christian People's Party leader I am concerned that one should ensure the families freedom of choice. Now when you're talking about ideology, there's no doubt that the Workers' Party is pushing ideology in front of you when you're going to have an equidistant parental leave and talk about equality policy. This is about family policy. It's about giving parents the opportunity to be parents in the way that best suits their family. It's about giving kids the opportunity to have time with their parents. What we've seen is there's been a huge increase in unpaid leave. I think that is demanding, and I think it is wrong. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants to increase the total maternity leave. Today it's 46 weeks after birth, and we want to expand it by four weeks. When the representative speaks of fathers being given the ‘cause of’ to take leave, I think the representative only has to recognise that the families choose differently. I don't think there are unauthorized fathers who can't fight for their rights, but it's better for families to do it another way. Then I think we have to have respect for it, and then we have to facilitate that father can take out a share, but have more power for the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1815	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1834	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1841	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for promoting such an important issue, one that we really addressed in 2018 in the context of the landfill notification on waste as a resource – waste policy and the circular economy. Then, together with SV, we asked for the government to come with us, among other things. a regulation to deal with run-off from these facilities around them. When we know that 1 500 tons a year disappears on Norwegian tracks, and that a lot of microplastics run into the sea either through the creek or through the laundry of footballers, we have to do some grip. The Labour Party is pleased that the government has taken a first step and introduced a new regulation, which will apply from 1 July this year, and we will follow up on how it will deliver good results. But I don't think that's enough. While we believe that the Norwegian Football Federation is very aware that this is a bad case for the environment and is very concerned about finding a solution, the EU is working with legislation. As the Council of State writes in its response to the Committee, it is unclear whether there will be a ban in the EU, how long a possible introduction will take, and how to deal with this also in the EU, so it is important that we be able to keep so far the focus on having a Norwegian policy in this area, as the Council of State also refers to in its response. We believe it is important that we have put pressure on innovation in how we can look at different alternatives that are better for nature but that will also be good for those who are going to play on these paths. If you fall, you shouldn't get hurt, no matter what, so there's also one thing that's important to bring here. In the discussion, there are very few alternatives that are in place, but there are actually some exciting things that are happening. Not least, the municipality of Rælingen has started with BioFill, which is suitable for children and young people, and the municipality of Trondheim has really taken hold of offensive efforts in collaboration with NTNU these days. So it happens a good deal, but we still have to press that we have to get better results in the future. We understand that sport is facing many challenges now, and the corona era has been demanding for them as well. Nevertheless, we put forward a proposal that we want to investigate a ban on this, but we have not fixed it because we believe it is demanding to do in the situation we are currently facing. However, we want it to be focused on finding good alternative solutions and being able to get a ban on this. I'm addressing that proposal the Labour Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1854	The representative Else-May Norderhus has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1859	I think everyone in here wants the least amount of litter. So far, I haven't met any politicians who say the opposite, who say that you want more siphoning, no matter what kind it might be. Both plastic and rubber and other waste must be prevented, as far as possible, from breaking down into nature and drifting away. This room has discussed many times, and the committee has done so on several occasions. The party of progress is obviously also concerned about this. However, we do not want a unilateral Norwegian ban on rubber cullet without good replacement products. After a discussion and review with interested parties, with the football itself, we do not want to introduce such a ban now. For example, as I said, there are little substitute products. Me and the Progress Party have, among other things, put forward another proposal in this room, where we have a greater review of plastic waste. It will come to treatment later. There we have local, national and international measures to combat plastic waste. I hope so, of course, that the rest of the members of the committee will support it. With regard to this proposal, on rubber cullet, international cooperation is also sensible. That means that we do not want a unilateral Norwegian ban. I am also afraid that it will have negative consequences for football, for sports, and for children and young people, at a time when children and young people need a handshake and no more restrictions as a result of such a ban. That is why the Progress Party will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1868	This weekend, the elite series was partially kicked off. Even I keep with Lillestrøm and have to lubricate with patience for a few more days. The last time Lillestrøm played at the top of the Elite series – it starts to be a few years ago, 20 years ago – when Lillestrøm trained on gravel in winter. It was drawn out by the football experts as one of the main reasons why Lillestrom was so solid. Today, there are no elite teams training on gravel. There are hardly enough elite fights on grass. Of course, we can think a lot about that, but the fact that we've had a fantastic development of sports facilities for football through the development of artificial grass courts has made it possible to play football throughout the country all year in all sorts of weather. Some football nostalgics will probably claim that it's a retreat. I believe it is a step forward that makes Norwegian football wider, better, and more people can compete with the sport they love. We in the Centre Party fully agree with the proposers – it is worrying about the emissions of microplastics from rubber cullet used on these pathways. Several tests have been carried out and several are being carried out to find other types of filling mass with the same characteristics. But after what we experience, you haven't been able to find such a substitute. So such a ban as the proposers want, in our view, would be a serious setback for the football. Instead, the centre party chooses to back up the various attempts to find good alternatives, and we also believe that we need to take the time to gain experience from the regulation put forward by the government, which intends to prevent rubber culverts from being weighed down by building physical barriers around the track and ensuring proper handling of drains and floods. Most of today’s artificial grass plants are laboriously built up through voluntary efforts and efforts. Behind the football there is a liter of waffle pipe, coffee cups and a lot of dognad hours. Therefore, the centre party is concerned and considers it important to take into account that the voluntary effort is not disproportionately affected by the new requirements of the regulation. We therefore believe that a proposal should be presented to compensate the sports teams and clubs concerned for additional costs related to the new requirements of the regulation and to meet those requirements. I'll bring it up to the Central Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1881	The representative Ole André Myhrvold then addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1886	I think that is a good proposal from the proposers. This is a matter that we really agree on and have worked with for quite a long time. Microplastics, and especially microplastics from rubber cullet on artificial lawns, are a major challenge. I think all moms and dads who have kids playing football have seen themselves rather tired of all the rubber culverts both in the washing machine, on the bathroom floor, in football shoes and what is. Having said that, I am very pleased that the government has already complied with what the proposers refer to in Document 8. What's in the government's regulation is probably going to pick up at 90 pst. of the microplastic which deviates from the football courts. I believe very much in that proposal – not surprisingly. I think the proposers might go a little far because we have some alternative materials for the rubber on artificial grass that are not quite clear for the market yet, but it's right around the corner. I think we're going to do it with the requirements of the government regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1893	The representative is in quarantine. That's what's happening right now, so I'm a little bit of a fast entry-in week on this occasion. Plastic exploration of the world's oceans is one of our major challenges. Every year between 8 and 12 million tonnes of plastic are dumped in the sea. It is a threat both to marine wildlife and to humans. In Norway, rubber cullet from the artificial grass tracks is the second largest source of microplastic pollution from the land. This pollution is worse than we thought. The Environment Directorate now estimates that at least twice as much rubber cullet comes into the wild from the artificial grass tracks they thought a few years ago. Estimates ranged from 1500 tonnes per year to at least 3000 tonnes — at worst up to 10000 tonnes. The government's proposal to put in place measures to limit the contamination of rubber cullet is far from adequate. The government says it will prevent 90 pst. by the rubber granules to leak into the wild, but UEFA’s own risk assessment of the measures proposed by the government shows that around 70 pst. the effect depends on how well users follow a set of instructions both during and after activity. Therefore, SV proposes a ban on the construction of new paths with rubber cullet from 2023 and that all existing tracks must have been removed by 2025. The alternatives are available, such as: olive cullet. In addition, we propose a compensation scheme for the clubs, so that children’s and youth’s rights do not have to take the cost. What surprises us is that the MDG, which has gone high on the path towards the government in this matter, does not support the SV's proposal. They just want to rule out a ban. It's mildly odd. To the Daily Newspaper on April 20 this year, Councillor Lan Marie Berg said: ‘The Government’s proposal is tame and does not address the fundamental problem. We must stop building environmentally harmful artificial grass tracks that pollute nature with plastics." We in SV fully agree with that. That is why we have proposed a ban of 2023 – a ban on MDG unfortunately does not stand back despite the tirad from the Environment Agency in Oslo. This shows how important it is for SV to be in charge of environmental policy, as we are in Oslo, where we are going, because there is a ban in place. With that, I address the proposal SV has alone and the proposals we have with MDG.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1917	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1922	Plastic pollution is an important environmental problem that this government is pursuing an offensive policy to do something with, both nationally and internationally. These days I am working on completing a comprehensive and revised plastic strategy, and I fully agree with the representatives that rubber cullet is a serious pollution problem. Norway was early on pointing this out as a source of microplastic pollution, and we also shared our knowledge with other countries. Today, about 1,700 artificial grass tracks in Norway are owned and run by municipalities or sports teams. Therefore, it is important that we have a regulation in place to prevent contamination of rubber cullet from these pathways. That's what we've done. The regulation will enter into force on 1 July and could reduce pollution by up to 90 pst. The proposal for a representative shows that the EU is considering a ban on rubber cullet on artificial turf tracks. Norway follows that process closely. At the same time, we know that there's a process that's going to take time, and that's not what the conclusion is. There is a proposal for a ban, but also proposals for other types of regulation and, in any case, for a long transitional period. I therefore believe it is important for the government to establish a Norwegian legislation now, as we have done, and not wait for the process in the EU. The government does not now consider it appropriate to introduce a curious ban on rubber cullet. It would be very intrusive to introduce a ban now, especially for those track owners who have already implemented demanding measures and who are therefore in control of the granules for their pathways. The government wants our regulation to ensure the most effective regulation of the design and operation of artificial grass tracks that will prevent the spread of microplastics, while taking into account the smaller paths and path owners. It is very good with the projects that are now underway to find good alternatives to rubber cullet. The regulation that we have adopted also laid down a substitution obligation. It obliges the owners of the pathways to assess alternative filling materials and to use them if it is possible to do so without undue cost and disadvantage. At the end of the day it is true that even though some people still think I am young, I will still allow myself to say that when I was young, it was largely a gravel track on and not the artificial grass track. At that time, probably a scrubbing wound was more of a concern than plastic pollution. While artificial turf tracks have increased and increased and increased in this country, I have also noticed that the results of the Norwegian football team have decreased and decreased, in the same period of time. If there's a correlation or causality, I'm not going to give up, but once we've made these investments, with all these paths, we have to at least make sure that the plastic contamination from them is as low as possible. That's exactly what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1936	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1941	In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State shows that it is important for the government to lay down Norwegian legislation now. I have to say, on behalf of the Workers' Party, that I am very happy to introduce the regulation that is now in force from 1 July, and there are ambitions there that demand that 90 pst be prevented. of the run-off that is now on the roads. So my question is, what will the government do to deal with the last 10 pst. - Do you have a clear plan for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1948	Yes, I think it is absolutely right that we have put these regulations in place now. I'm glad the Labour Party supports it. This will do a lot to solve this problem. I also record that the regulations we have now submitted have been well received by both those responsible for implementing them, and by forces within the environment movement. That's good. And then it's probably right that's also pointed out, that this won't solve the whole problem. So, of course, we need to be open to new measures that can take us even a few steps further. And then it's not going to get away from the fact that it's important that one of them replaces rubber cullet every once in a while. There are some of these options that are being tried out today, and then there's a lot of disagreement between those who work them out and the football, how far it works well. It has a little bit of temperature to do and damage risk, and what works in Norway and in other countries. But as I said, the substitution obligation contained in the regulation will be important to get the alternatives used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1955	I'm very pleased with the last Council of State said. The Council of State says to look at the different options that will apply to our climate, and that is a challenge in itself. When I grew up, it was the lawn and the gravel track. The new stuff hadn't arrived yet, so it says a little about the age. But we have to move on. We have to move forward. So it's not certain that rubber cullet is the answer to everything in the future, whether you can prevent runoff or not. So my question is: is the Football Association and the actors themselves going to solve this problem and get more and more demands on themselves, or are you going to be involved by the government in helping to increase the level of innovation to find new solutions, possibly with compensation or other devices?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1960	At least I don't think there's any doubt about the way things are going, and there's a lot of people who want to get away from rubber cullet. I also think that a lot of people in football want that, but it's clear they're worried about whether the alternatives are good enough, considering, for example, that. damage. There are some options being tested. I see the committee mentions olive cullet in its setting, and I am also familiar with being tested. As far as I am aware, the challenge is that due to low temperatures it can be quite hard, and that this can increase the risk of damage. But now I'm probably a little out of my specialty field. In any case, I record that there are quite different views about what belongs to it. And I think that the way we have now chosen, with rather tough regulations to get rid of and work on alternatives, is the right way to go. And, as I said, there are processes in the EU that we follow with interest and that can also quickly become EEA-relevant if there are regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1967	I want to keep asking questions about the future, because one thing is dealing with the existing paths, but what about new paths to be established in the future. It is important for those who need to invest around the different municipalities, what they need to deal with, that they have a transparent perspective for the future. So I wonder if the Council of State can say anything if it's relevant for the government to investigate a future ban on new paths, and possibly have clear leads, so that it can be predictable for those who actually invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1972	What has been much discussed about the regulations we have now made is precisely the difference between existing paths, new paths and the costs of demands. The model we have chosen means that when you want to build new paths, all of these new requirements apply acutely, including barriers around a path. Building a new path has a very high cost initially, approximately. Eight million. kr. And what we're talking about here will be a cost increase in the range of 200,000–300,000 kroner. So it should be convenient. When you build a new path, you also have this substitution obligation. An assessment shall be made whether alternatives other than rubber cullet are available. And whether it's possible to use other options without becoming an untimely cost or inconvenience to it, has an actual obligation to put it into practice. But if there's going to be a total ban on using rubber cullet for all of the new paths ahead, the government hasn't gone in too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1979	I think I largely agree with the Council of State here. If it's because I'm with Lillestrøm and he with the Left and none of us can be said to be membership supporters, I'm a little uncertain about [[muttering in the hall]] The football is operated to a large extent by voluntary activity, and the scheme does not trigger funds, nor is the VAT refund paid. Does the Council of State see any challenges and problems associated with making such a claim without providing a compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1988	I get an emphasis on the Kanari Fan, on the other hand, that, in addition to keeping the left hand side, I also keep with Fire – without making me more of a supporter, I think we will, at least not from the first round of this season. But when it comes to costs, it's been a very important part of the discussion. There's no doubt about it. And many people have been concerned about getting new demands that bring very high costs to sports teams and municipalities. The solution we've chosen, I think I should be living with. For the most cost-intensive measures we're imposing now, only applies when you're going to renovate a path, and it has to do with even spaces, or when you're going to build a whole new path. Then it's more convenient to get it done. In addition to that, it's the pay-as-you-pay-as-you-go principle. But I am aware that there are many who support that kind of establishment, whether it is the Saving Bank Foundation or others. So there are also funding possibilities outside the public, which I know is being used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e1997	It is often almost fatal in politics not to have any football balls you wear, so I get to go right on the matter. I mentioned in my post that there is much more rubber cullet released in nature than you have previously estimated. Estimates ranged from 1500 tonnes per year to at least 3000 tonnes, but in the worst case they may be up to 10000 tonnes. Given the great challenges we face with rubber cullet, does the Council of State really believe that he is satisfied with the efforts of the government and that there are no plans at all to investigate such a law? Because, in the SV's view, it is not enough for us to be able to reduce emissions to 10,000 tonnes of rubber cullet per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2004	It is true that the measures currently proposed for both drainage and snowmoking and barriers will not solve the whole problem. But they want to solve a lot of it, and that's why I think this is a good start. It is true that there is now new knowledge to suggest that the challenge of contamination of microplastics in general and rubber cullet in particular is greater than we have believed. We're really going to take on new knowledge. That is why I ordered an update from the Environment Directorate about this, and it shows that the outlook is larger than one has believed. It's a huge problem. The unchanged image is that rubber cullet appears to be the second largest source of emission here. It is serious and gives all possible reasons for action. We've done that through the regulations that are now in place from July 1st. That's good. But we are also working on, as I mentioned in my article, a revised plastic strategy for Norway, which is going to tackle plastic pollution in general, and which I look forward to completing and presenting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2014	This issue shows some of the challenges of climate policy, with children’s growth conditions up against climate challenges. Artificial grass courts increase frequency possibilities six to eight times. Especially in cities where there is a shortage of land, it is important to use at least those areas as effectively as possible. That's why I challenge Oslo a little bit, because I know that Bergen had at least managed to have more tracks than what Oslo had at the time I was a sports firm. Even Firen is now discussing the transition from natural grass to artificial grass. There is a lot of talk about regulation, and I know that the football has worked a lot and has made sense of the measures that are now being implemented. But what about research? How can you develop new offers? As Norway is so dominant in the use of artificial grass, it has taken a very long time, and not least the parents are tired of having these granules everywhere when they come home, as well as the plastic challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2021	First, when it comes to the discussion about Fire going from natural grass to artificial grass, I'm definitely not going to go into that discussion for a lot of different reasons. When it comes to research, there is definitely a need to step up efforts to gain more knowledge about what can work well as a good alternative to rubber cullet. A lot of this is being done today, in both sports and commercial actors. We've learned more in recent years. That's very good. And if we knew enough, it would probably be more natural to say that then we apply the option. Well, now that we've looked at this, at least my conclusion is that we don't know enough how good the alternatives are. So I'm probably not quite there yet, at least. But this will probably also be part of the process that is now taking place in the EU. In any case, the representative Grung is quite right in saying that there is a need for more knowledge and more research, and that is fortunately happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2034	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2054	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2061	I would like to start by thanking the proposer for raising an important topic and thanking the Committee for good cooperation. When the recommendation is promoted from an overall committee, it shows that in this case it is not empty words. Then the decision may seem somewhat negative to the proposer, but I hope that the comments show that both the Committee and the Council of State agree with the intention of the proposal that the ten oil bids should be marked, and that one sees both the importance and the importance they have had for 50 years. It was at that time that cross-political agreement on the principles of oil policy, and we have reaped the benefits of it really throughout all these years. The main conclusion of the suspension became important in the subsequent formulation of Norwegian oil policy and the law of petroleum activity. It has given us a world-leading petroleum industry. St. Report. No 76 for 1970-71 from the Ministry of Industry was treated on 14 June 1971 and was made to give an overall statement to the Stortinget on the petroleum activity in the North Sea, and it was a direct consequence of the findings of large gas and oil deposits in the Ecofisk field in 1969. Production started only days before 6 June 1971. Oil bidders represented an early attempt by Norwegian politicians to design some principles that could guide the oil and gas industry in the future. I read an interview with Rolf Hellem, who was one of those who had a central role in the design of the first oil message that was handled by Stortinget, and there he says: "There were just not so many people who could do so much about this. So I spent a lot of time reading everything I came over about oil. Thus I put on all the knowledge that the others lacked. And when it was to be adopted, what I wanted was what I wanted." This shows that we should be very grateful that we had visionary politicians at the time – unless knowledge was always fully up to date. Through these commandments, we have secured democratic control of our natural resources. The activity shall benefit the population and shall take into account existing activities, nature and environment. After 50 years, we're going to be grateful for the work that was done, and the importance that oil has had for our society, the importance it has for our society today, and not least we're going to be grateful for the importance that oil is going to have in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2081	By the end of the 1950s, few thought that oil and gas wealth along the Norwegian coast would become a topic. 50 years later, the industry is Norway’s most important, both in terms of income from the state funds, investments and share of total value creation. In May 1963 the government proclaimed the sovereignty of Gerhardsen Norway over the Norwegian continental shelf. New law established that the State was the landowner, and that the King could grant permission for exploration and extraction. The first concession rounds were announced on 13 April 1965, and the first oil found on the Norwegian base was Balder in 1967. But the Norwegian oil adventure started out seriously with found in Ekofisk in 1969, and it should turn out to be one of the largest oil fields ever found at sea. In the 1970s, search activities were concentrated around areas south of City. The socket was gradually opened and only a limited number of blocks were declared in each concession round. The areas that seemed most promising were investigated first. It led to world-class findings, and production from the Norwegian continental shelf has dominated large fields such as Ekofisk, Statfjord, Oseberg, Gullfaks and Troll. These fields remain very important for the development of the petroleum industry in Norway. There has been a set of different framework conditions for oil and gas activities over time. It goes on permits, concessions, ownership, funds, taxes, exploration mergers and much more. Everything did not come into place at the same time, but as there was a need to take different measures, good management of the Community's huge revenues was ensured. Developments have raised Norwegian industry and brought with it other industries in this effort. 50 years later, we see that the importance of the industry for the Norwegian economy is greater than ever. The development in the petroleum sector’s share of total value creation, investments, exports and revenues in Norway is a clear picture of this. The activity on Norwegian pedestal will continue to be central to the Norwegian economy, thanks to remaining resources and new significant development projects, such as Johan Sverdrup. Acquired knowledge of these fields will be able to take us into new and greener initiatives for the future. We will focus on the fact that active industrial policies will be crucial, in this way as well. With regard to the proposal, we think it is entirely possible to celebrate both the ten bids and the ten oil bids – at any time, anywhere. It's really completely clear; we don't have to have a decision on that in Stortinget. So good luck with the celebration!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2098	The oil industry in Norway has been a sunshine story for welfare development in Norway, and when we highlight that precisely in this debate today, we should also send a grateful thought to all those who did new work in their time, and to all those who have their jobs in industry today. The oil has made us one of the richest countries in the world, and we can proudly look back in 50 years with an administration that has benefited the whole country. So it is 50 years since the Grand Government adopted the ten oil bids, as they were called – ten oil bids, which were really principles of ownership of the natural resources to be addressed, principles that said something about the importance of taking into account existing industrial activities and considerations of nature and the environment, and principles that maintained ownership on behalf of the Norwegian people. It is such principles that have helped us to have an oil business that is world-leading in several areas and that also makes Norway today one of the world’s best countries to live in. After 50 years, the oil industry is still the country’s main source of income, and the Right believes that it will continue for many years to come. Petroleum industry is part of the solution for Norway in the process of transition to a low-carbon society. The oil industry is still developing new technologies, and we see that the industry is contributing to green solutions. We need it in the further work on conversion, which both Norway and the rest of the world are going through. Talking about an end date for the oil industry is not relevant for us. This will only slow down the innovation and engine that operates Norwegian business. To the right, it is important to stop emissions, but not the development of our well-being. It was wise and good principles that were adopted in 1971, and whether the same principles should be applied to other industries based on our natural resources becomes an important debate. In the Right we are concerned that we should manage our natural resources, not neglect them, both in terms of forests and agriculture, fish, minerals, the sea and nature. It's administrative responsibility, to leave the earth in better condition for the next generation, which is the cornerstone of Right Climate and Environmental Policy. This requires that management be sustainable, not only in terms of nature, but also in terms of taking care of well-being and jobs and creating opportunities for those who come after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2115	The Committee, after good practice and good work, has gathered on an attitude which does not come up with proposals from the Committee for consideration, but which says that one should express some of our views in the debate. So I thought I'd sign up and go at least some perspective from the Christian People's Party, but since several of the previous ones have chosen wise approaches to both how one should behave wisely before us, and what relevance they have today, let me be a little brief. The ten oil booths that the Document 8 proposes to mark, as a whole, provide a basis for learning, so that a few times can stop and see the perspectives and lines that are being drawn from them – whether it's about national control, or it's about ensuring that one has a climate and economic envelope around the oil policy that is being pursued in our country. In that perspective, I also think we should bear in mind that Norway has been a leading nation as it is seen in oil policy, and that the ten oil wells are also part of the historical line. Perhaps the most eloquent and simple example of seeing it is that one of the sockets that are close to Norway is still building oil fields with massive use of flaring - one way to extract oil that Norway used for a long time ago is not the way we want to do it, because the resources that are there must be managed in a way that benefits both the climate and those that are to have the income. I also think that here are some lessons we also have to take into account the context in which we stand. Later today, we are going to debate several interesting representative proposals, including: proposals that some parties claim in this Chamber that we no longer have national control over our gas exports. In any case, there is a perspective to show that one has managed to pursue a broadly anchored oil policy. It's a tradition I hope the parties can take care of even when one is dealing with other representatives' proposals than this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2124	The principles for the management of Norwegian oil were built on the lessons of hydropower and anchored in the ten oil bids, which Stortinget dealt with 50 years ago. The bids are about ensuring that the management of Norwegian natural resources is democratically managed, benefits the population, takes account of nature and the environment and of existing industrial activities. The importance of the Norwegian oil industry for the development of modern Norway is enormous — with values, jobs, revenues and returns. We have ensured that the profits have benefited the community instead of being in the pockets of foreign capitalists, as the Progress Party called for. Unfortunately, the bulk of the population has left several of the bids. Arguing governments have made Statoil subprivatized and converted into Equinor. Rather, we should have had a state-owned industrial locomotive to ensure fair conversion and the development of a sustainable business. We are pleased that a joint committee is behind Red's view of the importance of the principles of the ten oil bids. Then it is only a pity that industrial and industrial policy is not being treated in line with these. Red fights for us to learn much more from the principles set out in the ten oil bids – in the management of both industry, power, minerals, fisheries, soil, forest and other industries. It is also a pity that the Committee is not in favour of adopting the Red's proposals, but limits Storting's marking of the ten oil bids to the specific debate here, in the shadow of the revised national budget. Then I find more optimistic that the Council of State in its letter of reply gives its support to mark the ten oil bids in that way Red has proposed, if the Stortinget so wishes. We still hope that the Storting can support that, as we have previously chosen to give priority to important historical events. Well, as important as the past, we have these principles in mind when we consider how we manage our resources in the future. We often point to our rich natural resources to explain what is good with Norway, but although it is true, it is primarily the management of these that have separated Norway from other countries. It can't be in the forgetbook. This is why Red proposes that the 50th anniversary of the ten oil bids be marked in Stortinget with a visible poster and so on. which obtains the content of the bids and that those principles and their timeliness are lifted. I'll bring it up to Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2141	The representative Seher Aydar then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2146	I agree with the proposal that the ten oil bids reflect how we have ensured that the management of Norwegian natural resources is managed democratically, ensures high value creation, benefits the population and takes into account existing industrial activities, nature, environment and security. I believe that the long-term management tradition underlying the ten oil bids should also guide us as politicians today, even when we are going to manage our natural resources in the future. Therefore, I would like to say that I am concerned that several parties on the Stortinget will now scrap away the administrative tradition reflected in these bids. I want to facilitate the further development of the petroleum industry over the next decades. As long as the world needs oil and gas, I think we're going to help meet that need, and we're going to do it in a way that's going to go on most of the convergence that was made on the basis of the Storting in 1971. The requirements for end date and politically guided winding-up are clear violations of this proud administrative tradition that has served the country well in the last 50 years. Finally, I would like to highlight the third bid, that with the basis of petroleum, new businesses are to be developed. It's particularly relevant in the time we're in, and something that's going on all around our country today, for example through ocean winds, hydrogen and CCS. This is very important to ensure that today’s youth wants to continue what we have built over the past 50 years, for example. by continuing to train to maintain the unique competences we have built for the conservation and management of natural resources. If it is the case that the Storting wants to mark the success of Norwegian petroleum policy in so many ways and has been for the country, either in the way the Committee proposes through this debate today, or in the way the representative of Red proposes, it has my support, but I would also like to remind you that although it is nice to celebrate the history of oil, it is by no means the end. There will be plenty of opportunity for new markers even after the next 50 years, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2157	It is little that is so pleasant to celebrate as a 50-year-old package of wise bids, so I want to join all the congratulations and underline what the representative Norderhus has also said about the Workers' Party's view of this. But once we're celebrating past documents, I think it would be unreasonable not to mention one more, and that's the most beautiful message of big business throughout all times, both those who have been, and those who are coming, and that's St.meld. No 25 for 1973-1974, from the government of Bratteli. The message operationalizes these oil bids in a very active industrial policy, using all the tools in the toolbox that you already had, plus some you had to invent, you created a whole new tax system and looked forward to our time with incredible wisdom, because you understood that this could bring great income to the Kingdom. No one understood how big, but that they would be big, you understood. It was also aware of the pitfalls and described with great sensitivity both the environmental, international and distribution effects and set many social goals in addition to earnings, such as building up a Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian competence, and investing in education systems related to oil and neighbouring industries. It also ensured that we both had a solid state company and also had competition with international actors. That's the sum of this that's actually made us say that we've been the oil country in the world that's handled a great natural resource best. It's not just a statement, I think very many others show how wrong it can be. If a country suddenly discovers a large resource that can be used quickly, it often becomes corruption, mismanagement and, at worst, collapse and civil war. In Norway, it has become quite the opposite. I would also like to say that the same message has a greeting to us in our time, because in a rather strange passage it says that the oil industry will be able to generate revenue for a long time, in fact, into the next millennium – that is what they said in the last millennium – but it will not last forever. Therefore, they said that it is important to lay the foundation for what Norway will live on afterwards, while the oil age is still at its height. I also think that is an insight, and I want to draw two important messages out of it, both that we are living and working now, who are going to fulfill that message, and that the real lesson is that it really does go well when the state really steps into and uses the resources in a coordinated and holistic way. I am a little uncertain whether there was such a broad consensus about it at the time, but I am glad that there is a broad consensus about it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox The vote will then take a break in the debate to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2182	Before we go to voting, the Council of State Bru will convey seven royal propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2193	Then the Stortinget is ready to vote, first on the remaining matter from Thursday 6 May, agenda no. Seventy-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2230	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2242	The vote will take place at the next voting time on yesterday's map, Agenda No. Seventy-nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2254	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the law repealing Law No 6 June 1975 29 on taxes on property taxes payable to municipalities I [[removal of property tax]] Law 6 June 1975 No. 29 on taxes on the ownership of municipalities are repealed. II The law shall enter into force on the day of the King’s decision, but no later than 1 January 2024’. Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2295	A total of 38 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-10, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party the proposals No 11-13, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 14, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Environment Party of the Greens and Reds proposal No 16, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens proposal No 17, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 15, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party proposal No 18, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on the Environment proposal No 19 from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 20, by Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Greens proposal No 21, from Eigil Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and Red proposal No 22, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 23–25, from Hans Andreas Limi on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 26-29, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party and Red the proposals No 30 and 36, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party the proposals No 31 and 32, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Greens and Reds the proposals No 33 and 34, from the Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red the proposals No 35, 37 and 38, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to ensure that the remuneration of senior employees of undertakings and companies with State ownership does not exceed the salary of the Prime Minister.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2367	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 37, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a new investigation of power and democracy to investigate how power and influence have been distributed and disseminated in the Norwegian community, in line with the 2003 power investigation. The investigation should explicitly contain assessments of the power relationships in the labour market, as well as the influence of economic special interests, judicial bodies, expert bodies and thinking thoughts on policies and the development of society.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government strongly urges it to strengthen the means of increased housing and activity in the districts, including that rural policy considerations are fundamental to enterprise policy, to strengthen the local economy with a stronger rural profile and to combat social inequality and living conditions challenges, to provide a closeness reform for the public sector, to ensure State funding for the organisation and coordination of decentralised higher education, to develop broadband/5G throughout the country and to use the full scope of action in the EEA Agreement to provide direct business support and differentiated employer charges.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2391	There is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to recognise the organised working life and to carry out major industrial cleaning, inter alia, by promoting the seriousness of all public acquisitions, by significantly increasing the trade-union deduction, by reintroducing collective redress and by removing general access to temporary employment.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2410	I could not vote because the system locked itself after the previous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2415	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2428	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 33 and 34, from Red. Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide estimates in the government budget for 2022 that make the impact of a normal family’s post-tax income visible if different reforms for the reduction of working time in the coming decades are financed through increased progressive taxation.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide estimates in the State budget for 2022 that make the impact of a normal family’s post-tax income visible if a strengthening of the standard of public welfare provision in the coming decades is financed through increased progressive taxation.’ The Socialist Left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2452	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 31 and 32, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sample to be set up to carry out an overall assessment of the tax system with a view to making better use of the existing tax base, introducing new tax bases and assessing models for a green tax exchange.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asking for socio-economic analyses of infrastructure projects in Norway to include greenhouse gas emission prices at the same level as in Sweden, as well as emissions from built-up bogs and any other emissions not included.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2474	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on developing a North Norway development programme which includes tax reductions, infrastructure investments, strengthening of the personalised financial instruments, significantly reduced prices of aircraft, ferries and speedboats, the restoration of Andeya airstation and the re-establishment of Troms and Finnmark as its own counties.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2491	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public investigation into the power of the labour market, including: to illustrate how internationalisation, labour immigration, changes in business and the development of technologies affect the power relationship between social partners and to promote proposals to enable the parties to continue cooperation based on equivalent strength. The investigation shall investigate and document the impact of non-regulated labour immigration through the EEA on the Norwegian labour market, inter alia, related to wage and working conditions and productivity development in different industries.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2508	Sorry, that was wrong. Then we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2521	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a freeze on earnings for high-wage managers in the country and for a wide-ranging low-income commission to examine the distribution of real income in Norway.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2538	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for safe and strengthened national ownership of strategically important enterprises, natural resources and infrastructure, including by proposing to strengthen the concession law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2553	There is a vote on proposal No. 26, from the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to stop all ongoing centralisation processes in the country and to present a comprehensive plan on how the state, through increased local presence, can contribute to strengthening service provision and preparedness near people throughout Norway.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2570	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23–25, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a review of all additional benefits to the Nav and Municipal Income Insurance Schemes, with a view to bringing together more benefits in order to streamline and simplify the procedure.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government is asked to establish an annual immigration account in accordance with the model of the immigration account drawn up by CEFOS in Denmark.» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the annual government budgets that makes the overall integration debt incurred by the State related to immigration visible in the last decade, as well as estimates of the amount of integration debt to be increased by estimated receipt of quota refugees, asylum seekers and family reunifications in the years to come.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2597	There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out a full review of state directorate and agency structures and to propose changes to simplify, streamline and cut red tape. The review and proposals for measures shall be submitted to the Budget for the financial year 2022.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2614	My vote was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2620	The result is that 64 representatives voted against the proposal and 24 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Workers' Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to set up a National Council for Fair Conversion in which social partners play a central role.’ The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2641	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2646	The result is that 55 representatives voted against the proposal and 33 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Labour Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asking the government to reduce the financial differences by increasing the wealth tax and the valuation of shares and operating assets and commercial property to 80 pst.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2663	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to recognise the organised working life and to carry out major work-life cleaning, inter alia, by promoting the seriousness of all public acquisitions, double the trade-union deduction, reintroduce collective redress and remove general access to temporary employment’.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2678	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government assesses how climate and nature considerations can be integrated more strongly into the investigation manual.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2695	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose strong measures in the State budget for 2022 that will increase exports outside oil and gas by 50 pst. by 2030. Current actions are sectoral agreements between businesses, trade unions and authorities which undertake to invest where the export potential is greatest; industrial partnerships at government and industry level with other countries and the EU; simplification of the instrument to make it easier and more accessible; and export promotion to become a core task of the EEAS and central government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2711	There is a vote on proposal No. 16, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a cost evaluation of all the reforms of the Solberg government for the last eight years. The evaluation must indicate the cost of implementing the reforms and results per year and the expected impact in the coming years.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2728	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Community receives its share of the future profits from investments made possible in full or in part by subsidies that it has contributed to green migration. Subsidies may take the form of tax advantages or direct aid. As part of the objective of securing the Community's profits, the government shall set up an expert committee which looks at the arrangements of direct and indirect subsidies to promote green migration and how they can be designed to ensure that the Community participates in future returns made possible through green subsidies.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2743	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to report annually on developments in social mobility in Norway in the context of the presentation of the national budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2758	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the exemption method in which its distribution effects are elucidated, as well as to highlight other possible alternatives to the exemption method that are more conducive to distribution considerations.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2775	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to reduce the financial differences by reducing the income tax on ordinary and low income.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased State efforts in the field of carbon capture, transport, use and storage, sea wind, hydrogen, battery technology and green shipping.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2797	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-10, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘As of 2022, the government is asked to report on distribution and inequality on the basis of more parameters than today. Owner incomes shall be included, together with any other variables omitted which may illuminate the economic breakdown.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘As from the 2022 budget, the government asks that tables and figures in the budgetary documents relating to the distribution effects of government changes in the tax system be prepared with a more fine-tuning of high levels of income and wealth.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: «As of 2022, the government is asked to provide estimates of the wealth inequality in Norway, where, among other things, shares in unlisted companies and other property items that are currently undervalued in property statistics are included with their real market value.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘As of 2022, the government is asked to provide estimates for the development of the Gini index and other measures of income inequality in which retained dividends are allocated to the owners of the enterprises, in order to better reflect the income inequality in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘As of 2022, the government is asked to present a presentation of the overall impact of the government’s policies on the disposable income of different income groups, including estimated effects of, inter alia, changes in taxes, equity, social benefits and welfare schemes, following the presentation of ‘Distribution policy statement’ in Sweden.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to report to the Storting on the annual amount of tax evasion and, consequently, the amount of tax loss for the State in each year in relation to the submission of the national budget. The report must also contain the status of international efforts to combat tax evasion and government initiatives in the last year to combat the problem.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the appropriateness of blanks and patent boxes in the light of public tax avoidance disclosures and to promote measures to prevent abuse of these schemes.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to strengthen the transparency requirements for ownership and tax in public acquisitions, including tax payments, real owners and cost structure in the procurement law.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider establishing a national blacklist for state investment that provides government-owned companies with guidelines on the jurisdictions that are in line with good tax ethics.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a reform of employment, the aim of which is to increase the number of young people entering the labour market among those currently out of work and education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2887	The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2926	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2940	My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2945	The result is that 72 representatives voted in favour of the vote and 16 voted against. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2957	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Per Espen Stoknes on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on proposal No. 2 by the Greens/Greens/EFA Group. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to defer the implementation of the new E10/rv. 85 Tjeldsund-Gullesfjordbotn-Langvas Bay and redispatch the state resources for the realisation of the North Norwegian Railway in order to ensure a forward-looking transport corridor for the maritime food industry in the region, as well as better maintenance and upgrading of existing national and county roads along the route in order to increase road safety. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e2981	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that project E10/rv. 85 Tjeldsund-Gullesfjordbotn-Langvas Bay is financed without the use of tolls.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3023	It shall be weighed first over I and IV. The Greens and Reds have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3037	It shall be added to II and III. The Progress Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3059	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to reclassify 359 district roads in Vestfold and Telemark counties to riksvej and implement the Kaste–Stoadalen project in Nome municipality with state full funding.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3091	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3103	Case No. 7 was interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3115	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-13, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 14, from Solfrid Lerbreck on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an indicative Staff and Competence Code in Nav, which ensures adequate social professional competence in the establishment and at local level.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3141	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review Nav’s letter of allocation with a view to reducing the number of targets and avoiding detailed management of activities in order to ensure that Nav’s management is based on trust in the competence of employees.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present measures to strengthen the partnership between the State and the municipality and to ensure a locally anchored Nav office.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the system of redundancy payments and for proposals for the Storting in order to ensure that uncompleted users are not left unsecured in the follow-up cycle.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to ensure that the labour market measure is given priority over non-promotional training and that the participants must be employed in the enterprise where the measure is organised and must receive remuneration.» [[AFT]] Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to assess the further development of Nav’s provision for young people, including a formal review of a youth guarantee, in order to ensure close follow-up for each individual and sufficient and qualitatively good labour market measures, with a central focus on empowerment. Nav’s offer to people with mental disorders needs to be strengthened.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that there is an open and accessible Nav office throughout the country, in order to ensure services for all, including groups that do not master digital solutions.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to complete the ABE reform in Nav.’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to implement an activity reform with job guarantee for young people receiving the benefits classified disability benefit and redundancy pay.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that funds are put in place to develop more local labour inclusion tests and to ensure better coordination and systematisation of experience, so that working methods contributing to inclusion in education and work are continued and disseminated.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the Nav organisational model with a view to eliminating time-consuming red tape, reporting, control and detail management and instead to allow employees to use their professional judgement and trust their judgements. The majority further asks the government to come back with the result of the review and, at the same time, to set up a party-based sample including the user organisations as a party, in order to work for the necessary improvements in Nav.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government, as an important measure of increased freedom of action and authority for the individual Nav Office, asks the Government to review the letter of assignment for the Social Services of the Labour and Welfare Administration for 2021 with a critical look and replace the detailed management of instruments with more emphasis on governance through the results achieved.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to make the necessary proposals to ensure sufficient scope for action in the first line of Nav to ensure people in crisis of economic security and follow-up’.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that the legal certainty of the individual in meeting with Nav is strengthened and that the trust in Nav is restored.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3258	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Lise Christoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Per Olaf Lundtägen on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that local Nav offices in municipalities and districts can provide professional assistance to residents with at least the same opening hours as the municipality town hall.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3284	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that all its Nav Office has a daily opening time that ensures users who cannot or are not comfortable to use digital and self-service solutions, a Nav office that is available, so that equivalent services can be provided to all across the country.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The centre party has notified subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3318	The Central Party and the Left Party have announced subsidiary support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3335	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7, from Per Olaf Lundtigen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 8, by Margeret Hagerup on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking, pending an up-to-date code of professional injury, whether there is a need for a special scheme for the ‘oil pioneers’ in line with that previously implemented for the North Sea divers and the veterans in foreign service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3365	The result is that 57 representatives voted against the proposal and 29 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a comprehensive reform of the occupational injury area, simplifying current legislation from two to one law and updating the occupational disease list.’ [[Law on insurance against accidents at work]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the rules on occupational injury so that they are proportionate to the developments in society that have taken place over the last 30 years, including simplification of current legislation from two to one clear legislation and updating the list of occupational diseases.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Law on Social Security so that the Labour and Welfare Act has the burden of proof in cases of occupational injury.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance so that the insurer has the burden of proof in cases of occupational injury.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend the financial corporate law to ensure that compulsory membership of the Insurance Guarantee Scheme is also sold cross-border from EEA countries to cover the risks of insured persons in Norway.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is requesting a review of current practices and proposing the necessary changes to ensure equal rights for non-resident workers in Norway in the event of occupational injury to Norwegian workers.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate and the police have sufficient competence and resources to check that the pay, employment, insurance and housing conditions of foreign workers are in accordance with Norwegian regulations and standards, so that illegal conditions can be detected before serious accidents occur, and that the accidents actually occur are properly monitored and investigated.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3439	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3451	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1–9 and Case No. 25 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3460	Case No. 1 and 2 are the second processing of laws and apply to legislative acts 103 and 104. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3474	During the debate, Mr Engen-Helgheim put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce a national ban on the use of hijab in kindergarten and primary school.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had decided to take the following decisions in favour of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3576	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3586	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3598	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Torstein Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party the proposals No 2-6, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the right to secondary education and to grant students leaving secondary school in the spring of 2021 the right to education until they have completed and passed secondary education with study or professional competence.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose an obligation for the county councils to work systematically and preventively with students who are at risk of not passing the course in the spring of 2021 and to propose that an extended right to secondary education means that non-skilled students should receive more training in the course of training.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that students who do not have a good enough professional level from high school are offered, if necessary, introduction to Norwegian, English and mathematics to ensure that they have the skills to be a student in high school.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to make proposals to grant the additional resources necessary for municipalities and county municipalities to make a full offer to all students who need to spend extra time completing and passing secondary education because of the covid-19 pandemic.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose the introduction of a new right to an apprenticeship or an equivalent offer as part of the Education Act for apprentices who lost the apprenticeship in the 2020/2021 school year.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3654	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return as soon as possible with proposals for action and extended rights to ensure that students who do not have a qualification or lose their apprenticeship in the spring of 2021 are guaranteed an extended right to training without recourse to the right of youth.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Socialist Left has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3680	All in all, seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Jorodd Asphjell on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 3-7, from Mona Fagerås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to implement a four-year plan for the phase-in of free full-day space in the SFO for all children from 1st to 4th grade.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the introduction of interest-free loans for necessary investments for the introduction of free SFOs across the country and makes the necessary proposals for this.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3716	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4–6, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that SFO has enough staff and the skills required to provide children with a high-quality SFO offer.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a big message on how to raise the quality of the SFO and to start working on a quality plan to ensure the skills and development of the school leisure system. The notification shall address how free SFO can ensure a community of play, physical activity, healthy food, culture and a varied offer to all children, irrespective of parental income and background.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal right to sibling moderation in the SFO and between the SFO and the kindergarten.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3745	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative for a pilot project in cooperation with the KS, where municipalities are invited to put in place several full-time posts for employees working in the SFO, as well as to strengthen cooperation between the school and the SFO. The project will consider whether this can help to improve the quality of both school and SFOs, as well as improve working conditions for employees. The government is asked to put in place schemes for the reward of participating municipalities and to carry out a follow-up evaluation of the pilot projects.» The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3769	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate increased cooperation between the SFO and the cultural school, non-governmental organisations and local employment and business, which can underpin the school’s broad view of knowledge and competence.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3788	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3793	The result is that 44 representatives voted in favour and 43 voted in favour. – Thus the setting is consonant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3805	In the course of the debate, a total of four proposals have been put forward by Mr Tvedt Solberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to start researching and developing a pedagogy adapted to the five- and six-year-olds in school who unite play and learning to ensure a better transition from kindergarten to school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to follow up the conclusions of the knowledge overview on studies on the relationship between teaching methods and learning outcomes and what characterises a good and learning-promoting assessment practice for the younger students.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for research into the type of games that can lead to which types of learning.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to terminate all use of screening as soon as possible, where the youngest students are required to evaluate and evaluate fellow students and teachers using, inter alia, so-called ‘smile and surfacing assessments’.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3856	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Nina Sandberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 3, from Marit Knutsdatter Strand on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Stortinget with proposals to legislate the responsibilities of the municipalities for guided practice for health and social education students in municipal enterprises.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3882	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that changes to the self-payment regulations at universities and colleges do not undermine the free principle of higher education or undermine the aim of lifelong learning for all.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide the notified strategy for flexible and decentralised education for the Stortinget.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3908	I voted wrong. I had to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e3913	The result is that 44 representatives voted against the proposal and 43 voted in favour. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4065	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4081	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4086	As an introduction, I would like to thank the representatives from the Progress Party for the draft representative and the Committee for the good and orderly handling of the matter. When the social debate goes on, it's good that even in the Stortinget we talk about things that people are busy about. And how we use our power resources, people are busy. The representative proposal raises a question in due time: should we use our renewable power to electrify the socket, or should we use the gas we pick up from the formations to produce the power required by the offshore installations? There are several things we should have with us in this image. The first is that we don't have any power under them here in Norway. We produce more renewable energy than we need. We want this excess power to a long way up in the 2030s, even with electrification of parts of the base. The second is that by the oil tax agreement we entered into an agreement to halve emissions from the oil and gas sectors by 2030. Such a halving is only possible if we use all the tools – including electrification of the installations it is economically justified to electrify. The third is that there is no contrast between setting up industry on land and electrifying the base. But we'd like to say that the drive of our force to the area where the force is taken out is a problem. But there's a different issue than the one proposed here, and the Council of State will come back to in the message that is currently being prepared. Forces from countries are not measures we should use uncritically, always and in any case. It is the companies themselves that are developing their projects and that provide a solution to power supplies about what they want, what they see as realistic and profitable – and that also provides good operation on the installations. Therefore, it is wrong to be a fundamental opponent of such a solution. Electrification of the socket will give us a lot of competence and jobs over the years to come. It will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and be largely profitable for oil companies. It will also open up new opportunities for how we can use the investment we have made offshore in better ways, and in future it will provide a longer life span for our oil and gas production. Finally, I would like to have some thoughts attached to the Workers' Party's stand that the electrification must be done with sea wind. This is an approach that, in the short term — and by 2030 — will prevent us from reaching our emission targets. In the long term, on the other hand, this will be a contribution to a greater energy production, which can also be delivered to our gas installations. These are exciting thoughts, and I'm glad that the Council of State is now finalising the message it's doing, probably providing the basis for discussing both sea winds and how we're going to manage our energy resources in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4103	Norwegian oil and gas extraction accounted for 28 pst. of Norway’s total emissions of CO 2 in 2019. The industry and Stortinget have set targets for reducing climate emissions by 50 pst. by 2030 compared to 2005. That's a bold target. In a national perspective, electrification of the socket is important both to reduce emissions and to develop new technologies and further develop the supplier industry. Renewable energy demand has increased faster than expected. Electrification is the most effective means of reducing emissions, especially in transport and industry, but also in the rest of society. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes it is important that electrification of new existing fields should not be at the expense of electrification of new and existing industries and the development of low emissions on the mainland. It is a challenge that very many of the oil installations are located outside the West. The Western world, as the case-rapporteur was in it, is precisely the area where there is no transfer capacity to establish a new activity. It is also a challenge that very much of the network is weakest off the coast, it is precisely in the areas we see new activity both in the form of electrified ferry operations and in the form of industry. It is therefore necessary to electrify the cap as far as possible with sea wind or other renewable energy that is developed without jeopardising the land-based. Utsira Nord’s location and potential for liquid sea winds will be well suited to develop new technology while providing power to the base. It is therefore urgent to clarify the framework conditions and the announcement of Utsira Nord, as well as the Southern North Sea II, so that we can achieve the target of reducing emissions from the base, position the Norwegian marine wind supplier industry and ensure sufficient renewable energy for both the transport sector, land-based industry and the transition to a low-carbon society. It's true that we have a short time. That's why it's just so important that we get those framework conditions in place. The working party is optimistic, it happens very much in other areas as well, like green hydrogen and green ammonia. The use of the facility has just been the hallmark of the supplier industry and the Norwegian industry. That's what we've really done, we're at the best when we get it done. Now we have a unique opportunity, and it wants the Workers' Party to contribute to. I address the proposal that the Workers' Party, together with the SV and the Greens' Greens' Party, are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4121	The representative Ruth Grung then addressed the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4126	Now it ended the consensus. It might as well, the debates tend to get better then. We're in a time when we have big changes. Businesses are changing, we see areas that get a new everyday life, and production and demand are changing. We're used to changes and we've had a long time, but they've probably never come as fast as they're coming now. It is an increasing electrification, while now experiencing an enormous willingness to set up new power-generating industries – a will that we see, to create new values and jobs. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that we need to be more than ever careful about what we use and where we use the available force. Large parts of the country experience a high demand, but to use the mountainous region as an example, there was a demand for new power in 2019 of 660 MW. Today, the same demand is 2,800 MW. Then I think we are facing a completely new situation that should cause the warning lights to light more than ever, and that electrifying the socket by force from land should not be implemented. Yes, I am aware that the Progress Party was involved in a plan for electrification. However, also take into account that that proposal contained some statements on the precise consideration of cost-effective emission reductions and the impact on the terrestrial power system. I believe that with the changes we see today, we do not have to wait for this plan until we see that the need has changed completely. This desire to electrify the base is also very expensive – but not necessarily for the oil companies. In fact, we can see calculations where the oil companies have a financial gain on the measures. Equinor has suggested a 50 billion installment cost. NOK and the bill for 40 of these will be sent to the taxpayers. Norway has historically had access to a lot of cheap power. Now, if we take the power of the base, it could mean that it would prevent the creation of new industries on land. In addition, there is a risk that less power can lead to higher prices. Yesterday we discussed the perspective message, which is clear that there will be tougher times – that we need to be smarter and we need to become more effective. Then I just want to say that this is neither smart nor effective. It's expensive, it prevents the creation of new businesses, it can bring higher electricity prices, and it has an immaterial climate effect. Yes, to those who believe this is an important climate action: one must almost ask whether it would have had a greater effect just to send the flow directly to Europe. With that I want to address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4141	The representative of Terje Halleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4146	The Norwegian cap emissions represent a significant share of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and a cross-policy objective is to work to reduce those emissions significantly. It is a goal the industry itself ends up and works actively against. The proposal we are discussing here today is detached from all the contexts required to reduce emissions related to the base, such as energy policy and climate policy as a whole. The centre batch is fundamentally concerned that single-site emission reductions shall not occur in such a way as to increase emissions elsewhere. It is therefore essential that the objective of zero emissions from the socket is not at the expense of industry on land and Norwegian consumers, by increasing social and geographical divisions. It is therefore necessary to electrify the cap in such a way that it does not drive shore-side electricity prices and thus jeopardise jobs in the land-based industry. The centre party believes that the electrification of offshore oil installations should primarily be by sea wind power. At the same time, such a strategy could also contribute to the development of a new Norwegian marine wind industry, and it is in a way a policy I feel there is a broad consensus on. The centre batch is also concerned with highlighting that the target of reducing emissions from the base also needs to be concerned with technology development, capture and storage of CO 2, and other forms of carbon-neutral production. Today, we do not choose to support any of the proposals because, as we pointed out when dealing with the climate communication, climate policy generally requires a large-scale electrification of society in all areas, including the electrification of the socket, the transport sector, agriculture, established industry and new renewable industries, etc. According to the experts, we're going to need a place between 37 and 70 new TWh in the years ahead. At the same time, the debate and conflicts related to new energy show that this is one of the most demanding debates of our time. The centre party looks forward to the announced Landfill Communication on long-term value creation from Norwegian energy resources. There, we expect to have the opportunity to deal with this complex of cases in the width and context that it deserves and not least requires – not by means of an arbitrarily proposed representative, such as what we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4162	The world is running out of time in the fight against the climate crisis. That was the very serious message from the UN Secretary-General a short time ago. If the world had listened to the UN as the message of the first climate report came from the United Nations Climate Panel in 1990 – I remember well – we could today and also before choose what climate action we were going to take. But we don't have that luxury anymore. Since 1990 the world has emitted so much greenhouse gas that we can no longer choose and wreck on the top shelf. We have to cut all emissions short and well. In that case, the declared maximum pollutant cannot be released, as the Party of Advancement wills. Oil companies have increased their emissions by 70 pst. since 1990. No one else has had that growth. Therefore, we need to cut emissions from oil companies by reducing production and replacing the highly polluting gas power stations on the base with renewable and zero-emission power. The electrification of the cap must be used as an engine to get the sea wind bet started, because it is absolutely necessary – everyone says they want it. We have to use the sunset industry, as oil companies are, to speed up the conversion needed for the sunrise industries. But to ensure that this does not happen at the expense of industry, we have to oblige oil companies to produce at least as much sea wind as they will use to electrify the base. And the oil companies have to pay. There is no reason for the bill to be sent to taxpayers, as the representative of the Progress Party says. Nor can we waste Enova for money, as the government has done in connection with Equinor's expansion at Hywind Tampen. That is why I am now addressing the proposal from the SV and the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4169	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4174	One of the proposers, representative Terje Halleland, began his speech by saying that the disagreement arose quickly in this matter, and that it provides the basis for a good debate, and I fully agree with that. It is important that we discuss this. It's a lot of values, and it's about how we're going to dispose of the almost infinite resources that we in Norway are so lucky to be sitting on and exploiting and exploiting in the next decades. The situation is that we have a large amount of renewable energy left over today – up to 15 TWh we are not being exploited, annually. Moving the force where it can make better use of itself is part of the discussion we have. In addition, we have great opportunities to produce even more renewables. We can use more bioenergy for heating and thus reduce power consumption for heating. We can use thermal energy to a greater extent than we do today, and not least comes solar energy and makes a new and big contribution to us. There is still some wind power under development on land, and there is a discussion of floating sea winds, but also bottomless sea winds, which are part of the debate here. It's getting the power out that's a big part of the discussion. That's when I'm a little surprised when you're like that for the industrial development we're all really looking to contribute to, the supplier industry and all the technology development -- it can actually be a big contribution to send power out from where there's actually a surplus, out into the sea and back into where there's a shortage of it today, and along the west coast there are actually a lot of cases like that. This could mean that we can do both, we can actually contribute to directing electricity out to platforms, but also take it back in through sea winds and create new opportunities on land. Of course, it is important that we now start by doing a thorough work on this infrastructure, and that we coordinate, so that it does not happen – as we sometimes see when we both need to build out cable television and have other infrastructure in the ground – digging after digging, without coordinated. Utsira Nord is an example of the fact that it is also possible to take advantage of both foreignables and infrastructure, in fact maybe all the way to Scotland, the United Kingdom, and that the wind can blow again on land in Norway at times, for that matter. Then the Progress Party is within it with the tax system. That discussion is important, and the question of sending the flow directly to Europe. But there is also a little bit going on in the swing door for the Progress Party, which has just finished that we are going to build more foreign tables. One has to decide which part of this industrial development one should be part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4196	The petroleum industry set itself a target in January 2020 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian capped production by 40 pst. by 2030, and on that they would be close to zero by 2050. The size further increased the ambition in June last year, which was also behind the Advance Party. For 25 years, force from land has been required to be assessed by new expansion projects, and oil companies themselves are planning to carry out their activities on a Norwegian base within the limits set by the authorities for the petroleum activity. In their decision, companies will assess the profitability in force from land up to other solutions. But force from land means great investment, there is no doubt about it. There are significant variations in the cost and potential of emission reductions related to supplying power from land to different devices on the base. Among other things, there must also be power available at the connection point on land. Thus, force from land is not an appropriate solution everywhere, and must be assessed from device to device. Then it's that the installations depend on stable access to power. It is therefore not realistic to electrify the platforms with sea wind without also being connected to the shore-based power grid. The electrification of the sea wind base by 2030 is also totally unrealistic and is neither appropriate nor economically sound. It's a little disappointing, I think, that neither the Workers' Party nor the Centre's party is involved in that description of the reality of the situation in this case. In that way, I believe that they cast doubt on the support for a measure that they themselves have strongly advocated, and I think that is unfortunate in the future we have ahead of us, where we need to end up with the long-term objectives we have set. Norway shall contribute to meeting the world’s energy needs by continuing to produce oil and gas economically, efficiently and with low emissions as long as demand remains. The government wants to further develop the petroleum activity, not liquidate it. Power from land is an important tool in the development, towards the low-carbon society we all steer towards, by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4214	The development of bottom-solid sea winds has taken place incredibly quickly, and the Workers' Party is optimistic and believes that the same will happen within floating sea winds. We see that a lot of people have taken positions tied up to bottoms, and Norway has an opportunity especially within floating areas. That's why the question is, and I think I've asked it earlier: when do we get the famous energy message, and will that message give clear leadership for the framework conditions for Utsira and Southern North Sea II?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4219	The simple answer to the question asked by the representative is yes. Those framework conditions will lie there. There is a lot in the big news about sea wind, I have also mentioned it here in the Stortinget earlier, and the message is presented on 11 June, so we will have a good opportunity to discuss this. When I'm busy with the things I'm busy with in my post, it's also because I listened to the post from the representative Grung. The representative says that we have to make sure that this does not go at the expense of other industries and other businesses. I agree with that, but if we have a common goal that we're going to be somewhere by 2030, it's not realistic now to point to sea wind as that solution. It's not close to being profitable. It's not just about the concession process and what we're going to present in the message about this kind of clarification. It's about the costs, and it's not even possible to build parks on that scale to supply the platforms to a point where you actually get to take down the emissions you have to take out before we get to 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4226	What we've seen is that since the demand for electrification has shot so fast, there are a huge number of industries that think new, as it is today. We have the principle of the first man to the mill in terms of the limited resource that renewable energy has become, and the Workers' Party is concerned that that energy is used where it creates the most valuable, the most employment. When closed today, the base may come first, while other industries will have to cover the installation contribution. Will the first person to the mill principle also be part of the energy message, so that it is also discussed, that we get an open process of prioritizing renewable resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4233	The first person to the mill principle is not that the petroleum industry should take precedence, that is, go ahead of others. It's just that they also have the right to their place in the queue if they want to relate to, for example, a force-from-country project. That's what's in that principle. What the representative takes up in the larger picture will also be an opportunity to discuss after the big message is submitted, because as I have notified, we will also look at electrification there and go into that subject. I also share that concern. I am just concerned that we should not deceive ourselves into thinking that it is possible on the one hand to say that we should just give priority to it on land and thus push the petroleum installations out, while at the same time achieving the objectives we have said we should achieve. This is a pressure from Stortinget. It's the Storting that has asked them to even adjust their targets to 50 pst. by 2030. We have as much power as we have. Then there must also be a system of objective criteria and a first-person approach to the Mølla principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4242	The challenge is that this priority takes place in a closed system. I didn't say they weren't going to be prioritised, but that you could get an open discussion, that if we have limited resources and more opportunities, we have an open discussion up to it. This is what we think is important in the future, because the Storting has adopted several objectives – the climate objective is one, increased employment, increased value creation to replace the oil industry – so balancing the various objectives is important. Back to sea wind: I've been at a lot of meetings lately, where they're not only in the environments around Utsira and Southern North Sea II, but also along the coast up are impatient after they're also going to have the opportunity to develop their areas. Does that mean that once we get those framework conditions, they will also apply to new areas other than Utsira and Southern North Sea II?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4249	I have to say I'm very happy to have this message, so it'll be easier to have these good discussions, because it's absolutely relevant topics. I have to show that there are more answers when the message is being made, but as of today there are two areas that are open to sea winds. We see there is great interest in these areas. Many people are very excited about the supervisor of the concession process and what kind of framework conditions to impose. I understand. I definitely share the desire that we be able to develop more areas of sea wind on the base in the long term, but we have to do it in the right order and make sure that we're all on that job. There are many who are very sceptical about this, who are concerned about other types of industries, other interests, others who are going to use the sea, and of course we must also have the environmental and nature perspective. We have to go up the path in the right way if we are to succeed with this in the long run, and be careful not to make any of the same mistakes that we have unfortunately made in terms of wind power on land in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4256	Electricity is considered by the government to be an important climate action, and then I expect the government to do a lot of work on climate policy being cost-effective, targeted and contributing to actual emissions cuts. I also expect the government to see that questions can be asked about several of the measures relating to electrification, both the climate impact and the costs. Even as the Council of State now says on several occasions that she believes this has a great climate impact, I wonder what this calculation would have been like if we had sent our power directly to Europe, instead of taking it via the socket and sending gas down to Europe. Will this be an option if it turns out that it is significantly better for the climate effect and in terms of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4261	I know a lot, but I don't have the answers to everything in my head, unfortunately. It would certainly be an interesting calculation to be able to look at, but it's going to be a completely hypothetical debate. I also don't know how appropriate it is to have such a debate, because I guess the Progress Party doesn't want to send all the power we might not use on the base to Europe to go in and electrify there, or replace fossil emissions there, even though that's part of what we're already doing today, because we have power exchanges with the rest of the world. The point of such a calculation exercise is I'm a little bit more uncertain about – I can't answer it on the standing foot. But I want to get to grips with something else that the representative is in, which he also talked about in his post, and that is what costs efficiency is. I understand that there is concern about the issue of climate action, but I would like to point out that some of these forces from the country measures are often the most cost-effective compared to other measures, such as: sea breeze, to solve the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4269	Yes, I understand that the Council of States can find it difficult to answer such a question, because what's interesting there is that if a search for measures that provide the most cost-effective result, it gives the climate effect a wish, against costs. The council also keeps saying that we have enough power, there are no problems with power, we can electrify, we can get the new establishments we see in large battery factories, and data storage, which takes a lot of energy – this is no problem. We see very easily on the calculations that we don't have enough power today to accept this at the same time as one is going to electrify, so my question is, where is that power going to come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4274	There is no doubt that we have a lot of power available in Norway today, but I have never claimed that we have just enough today to solve all the challenges we are going to have at any time in the future. On the contrary, I have been clear that we also need to produce more power in this country to meet what we need, not only to electrify the socket, but also to electrify large parts of our industry, cut emissions in the transport sector, etc. Electrification is a major part of that solution. For this reason, it was so important that the government, for example, provided for changes in the tax rules in the area of hydropower to stimulate more expansion there. We see that gives effect now. It's important. So I think that in the long term we're also going to need some more wind power on land in Norway, but it's only possible now that we've luckily tightened up the concession system and get a more moderate expansion. It won't solve the whole problem either, but everything is related to everything, and we can't say: No, now we're not going to achieve our climate goals, we're going to scrape the commitments we've made towards the Paris Agreement, we're not going to cut all the emissions on the base – because maybe we don't know exactly how much power we're going to need in 2030 and 2030 – instead of working for that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4281	I am pleased with the last Council of State said, because the most important thing we have to hold on to now is that there has to be climate change. I also wanted that message to be here, so we could discuss the principles. Unfortunately, it's so late that we don't get to do that in this session. However, I would like to ask the Council of State about some of the principles I raised in my post: Is it reasonable that the oil companies, which have a good economy, are involved in financing this? Is it reasonable that they are required to produce at least as much sea wind as they need? Does the Council of State, like SV, mean that Enova should not be tapped to meet this need, but that companies should be able to finance this need as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4288	Climate policy instruments are not just about supporting with amounts of money from the country. The main instrument we have is the CO 2 tax. The government has now announced that it will be stepped up also on the base, to NOK 2000 by 2030. It will in itself trigger important measures. We have to value the emissions if we're going to get the effect we want. However, I do not think it is right that the petroleum industry, as the only industry in the country, should not have had the opportunity to apply for aid to implement measures. The tools we have available are to help business in the transition we want to see happen. Then I am aware that SV would ideally like to wind up the industry, and then I realize that it is not appropriate to join and support that they should also go in a more climate-friendly direction and cut emissions. But I think it is important that we have predictability for the industry, which also supports when they have measures they want to implement, and it is those who need to develop the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4298	As the Council of State knows, SV supports the proposals to escalate the CO 2 tax – we may well have hacked more ambitiously. But I'm still a little into what the Council of State says, because otherwise the government is very concerned about the incentives given to different industries through different types of instruments. There may also be impositions and requirements, and we know that impositions and requirements in these areas help to push forward technologies and solutions that we would not otherwise have received. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the Council of State is so reprehensible to see that an industry that is economically very profitable, not seagoing, will cost its costs by cutting the CO 2 emissions we have to cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4309	I do not agree that we do not make demands. On the contrary, I believe that they should reduce emissions by 50 pst. by 2030, is a very clear requirement. That said the Storting was going to happen within existing instruments, so that must be the reason. I do not agree that we should, if necessary, discriminate against that particular industry in comparison with other industries in the country, which I really believe is what SV is calling for. You can ask the question back: Is it true that Enova, for example, would support the hydro pilot on Karmøy, an industry that also makes money, which is also in the quota sector? They received commitments to support more environmentally friendly technologies. We cannot differentiate that because we operate with oil and gas, we should not be able to participate and also receive support for good measures that compete with other measures in the instrument. That, I believe, is becoming an unfair discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4316	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4323	This evolves into a very interesting debate. First of all, with regard to the 2030 climate change target: to achieve that, we need to put in place measures. I almost never hear that any parties here go further than the government parties do to get it done. We also have to finance it, so this has to work together. If we start with the representative Halleland's articles on electrification and where we are going to send electricity and gas, can we ask the question: Should we send gas to land in Norway? No, at least we won't, so we don't have to take that debate. If we're going to send the gas somewhere, it's continuing to send it through the infrastructure we've built to the continent. On the other hand, we can and we're going to electrify the socket, and then the question is the extent and what the cost of it is. It's a rather favorable investment, because electrification is the future of Norway, and that's when we can get a columbi egg and contribute to electrification of the socket via liquid sea wind or bottom-solid sea wind, but also send it back to land. Then we are in the middle of the discussion: Where are the data centres and battery parks to be built? This is not just a discussion about outside Norway and where the energy should be, it is also a discussion about how to distribute it in Norway. I'm from the Inland, and we want some shares in the future electrification we too. We produce quite a lot of hydropower, and we also have a desire to contribute to new industries and new jobs. Taking advantage of domestic energy is also part of this discussion. This means that the West Coast has some other options than what the Inland has to help expand the electrification. So to the instrument tool, as Karin Andersen mentions in the loop. If one were to exempt the oil and gas sector from the instrument, we would have to make very much stricter demands on them in the so-called PUDs, which we sometimes have within the Storting. Now they're getting so big that we don't have so many, but plans for expansion and operation are also part of this. We have the quota system, and then we have the CO2 tax. If we're going to take the promises that floating sea winds actually are, I think they're going to get a piece of the instrument sometimes to contribute to the huge opportunities that Norway actually has to be leading the world in some areas. We are sitting on the possibilities: Floating sea wind, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen – a lot of the possibilities are actually out in the North Sea and the Norwegian Sea and off the coast. When it comes to making maximum use of this – yes, for all, and then we will also use some of that power to industrialise something on the mainland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4336	The representative Kjeseth was in some areas, and I have to admit that I did not fully understand the thread, but that's okay. Nor are we going to expect to take the gas to land, but my question has gone so far as to ask whether we need to electrify to take the gas ashore to Europe, if we can make more use of sending the same current directly. The council has been very clear that sea wind is not a solution to electrify the base. I miss feedback from both the Workers' Party and the Center's party, considering what they think about that very statement. In all their remarks and their solutions for electrifying the cap, for which they are, they shall resolve it by means of sea winds. Then I hear to the extent that they understand the problem raised by the Progress Party in using the power of land. I expect you to have an answer as to whether you do not want to electrify, if it turns out that sea wind is not realizable. I see that there are more people who are creative about these solutions. We have the Green Party, which alone has suggested that they will build approx. 2 000 windmills until 2030. I found out that it will be approx. 15-20 wind turbines each month from today until 2030. Is this something the Working Party should join, or the Center Party? Are these plans they intend to realise? The NVE and their concession system have said that they expect that if an application is promoted today and is carried out completely without complaint, without extending any of the consultation processes, the first mill will be able to deliver in force in 2029. So what does 2030 mean? Is it just a solved alternative one should push on, or is it such that the Workers' Party and the Centre believe that if the sea wind is not a solution, they are going against electrification? I also want to challenge the same batches in the case of the petroleum tax regiment. Now we see a plentiful diversity of actors who want to be part of, in particular, a technological development that is going on in the sea. There are many companies that are not in contact with the petroleum industry at all, but they want to be involved as actors out there. Is it a concern that one lets some of the actors be part of the petroleum tax agenda, which gives special advantages, and allows the other actors to sail their own seas?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4347	I have to say, I think the whole situation and the debate about electrification of the socket is almost unreal. When you think about diet-benefits of such projects, you use approx. 50 B.C.E. kr, and then you look at the global climate effect of it or the global impact on emissions versus other alternative solutions – I don't understand that that's possible. I almost don't have a word for how meaningless I think it is. When you put that in the context of 25 billion. kr to Langskip also: For information for Stortinget, the forest we have in Stange and Romedal generalisation, a generalisation in Norway, binds more CO 2 than what we're going to pump into the hole in the North Sea to 25 billion. kr. 75 B.C.E. kr in the name of climate! What makes me double-provoked is the revised national budget that came today. You could say it's a little bit on the sideline of electrification, but it's related, because it's about how to prioritize public tax money in the green shift and in the climate accounting. There I think it's actually a matter of representative Andersen and I agree a little – it's not often, but I think we agree on this matter. It's about Forestia in Hedmark, old Norwegian Forest, a difficult business within woodworking. They have worked for a long time, for several years, to try to get some small money from the government in support of building a sewage treatment plant for recycling wood. If you can recycle three instead of burning it, as we do today, you'll bond CO 2 forever. At Stortinget we agree on that. The giant had a unanimous clear marshaller to the government in the state budget that this is important. This is about binding CO 2, it's about climate accounting, it's about green change, it's about green platform, it's about circular economy, but the government can't bring money. That's why I'm provoked when you know that the government can spend billions on symbol politics, whether it's electrification, or whether it's Longship, but they can't raise 70-80 million. kr to Forestia, when the company itself is to contribute with the multiplicity. I think that's very provocative, and I hope that the Council of State – at least we have one in the Chamber today – will bring it back to the government, that in terms of having credibility on the green shift, circular economy and green platform and all these concepts that exist, it's also good to remember the forest industry and a little bit of money there and not just throw billions out in the North Sea. [[The representative lets the referee sit down before he takes up the pulpit.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4369	The ladies have the rank!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4375	Yes, that's it!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4380	It was actually the representative Johnsen who got me to draw me on the list of speakers. When he starts his post by saying that electrification for him is a totally unreal debate, pointless, then the representative Johnsen and his party completely forget that electrification of the socket is not just about Norwegian oil and gas production being able to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions quickly enough. It is equally about the competitiveness of Norwegian oil and gas in a future scenario, how the world must have been closed down by nearly a few ‘worldwide’ to develop a price system such as CO 2 emissions and to allow Norwegian oil and gas to compete in 2050-2060, in the low-carbon society, on a market that is bubbling with too much fossil energy. And just how busy we are both by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and – as I see it that the party of Johnsen is actually making itself a spokesman for – being primarily occupied with Norwegian oil and gas production, it is a fact that the world also in the low-emission society is going to have fossil energy consumption at a level far exceeding Norwegian oil and gas production today. Today, the world has an annual consumption of approx. 150 000 TWh energy, cows plus/minus 15 pst. is renewable – the rest is fossil. This shall be a turn-down in order for the world to be in the vicinity of the Paris Agreement. But that means that even in 2050–2060 – I would like to say to the Progress Party – the world will still have a fossil consumption of one size, we do not know, of 30,000–40,000–50,000 TWh fossil energy. Norway is currently producing 2000-2200 TWh of fossil energy. So if we are busy with future Norwegian oil and gas, a real concern should be that Norwegian oil and gas can electrify so quickly that they can compete in a market that makes pure production a competitive advantage in the low-carbon society between 2050 and 2060.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4390	This issue is about the debate on whether or not we should actually cut greenhouse gas emissions, and there is the Progress Party on a completely different planet, and unfortunately we do not have it at our disposal. We have to cut the greenhouse gas emissions, and we have to cut them a lot. It's smart if we do it in such a way that when we do, we also develop Norwegian industry and supplier industry by setting clear demands. It is SV concerned about – high demands, clear requirements – so that we both cut greenhouse gas emissions and create new jobs, because if we do it right, we can. The representative Johnsen mentions Forestia in Våler. Yes, I've seen the train by politicians who have been there, and everyone thinks it's fine. We in SV have not sat and negotiated this with the government. This is what the Progress Party did after they left the government, and they did this when they joined the government as well. Then it is probably up to the Progress Party to make sure that there is actually money for this, and that the changes in the rules actually come into place so that these measures can be legal within the framework of the support legislation, because that is the problem. It has been proposed by SV, and SV has also put money in its alternative budget for this, so that it could be resolved. But it is not too difficult to predict that it is the Progress Party that will also have to sit and negotiate with the government parties, at least in the first round, so I expect Johnsen to deliver on this point, and that this will be prioritised in the negotiations and not just on the pulpit and in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4397	It's no secret that I don't even agree very much with much of what Halleland's representative said in the pulpit here. I believe that we should apply force from land as a climate solution also for the petroleum industry. But what I want to give him right in, and which I think is a timely observation, is related to the fact that I remember very well the debates we had in Stortingen about electrifying the height of Utsira. I also remember very well which parties were in the rush for it, first of all, and I think it is a little sad that not the Workers' Party and the Center Party take the call to come up here and clarify what they actually think about this now. I think there are some answers to whether it is now that the Workers' Party will not support force from land towards 2030 unless it comes from sea wind. I think there is a lack of realism in this debate. If it is that we can agree across the parties that the overall objectives we have set ourselves are so important – if we believe that we are going to meet our commitments in the Paris agreement, that we are going to have a national climate target, that we are going to reduce emissions – then we have to circle around the instruments and the way we have pointed out also for the petroleum industry, because it is to be carried with us. The representative of the Progress Party speaks of this as a symbol policy. No, this is not symbolism. This is industrial policy. This is Norway’s largest and most important industry. It also deserves predictability for the future. I have plans for it to be here for many years to come, and then we have to facilitate it through the framework of the policy, which I now believe is creating a little unfortunate unforeseeable around. There's no reason to pretend this is easy. There is no reason to pretend that this is not going to be difficult in the years to come – the formidable task we have in front of us, and all that results from a need to electrify. Because it's not that you can go in to cut large emissions using electricity, build a lot of new industry, rather not build a new power – at least not the power we don't like ourselves, a little depending on which batch you ask – and maybe even not really have power exchange with other countries. It's not gonna work. This is a major and important topic that sets the whole framework for what Norway as a nation will develop as in the years to come, in a future where we need to cut emissions and achieve some common global goals that are essential for my child and his child to live a good life. Then I want a little more accountability, a little more willingness to stand up for what is difficult, what can be unpopular, and which will require us to find good solutions together, and not hide behind what appears to be simple solutions, but which we really do not know is realistic, such as. To say that by 2030 we will be based on electrifying the base with sea wind. It's not realistic, and I think these parties too know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4408	Clearly, the freckles of the representative, Andersen, have no limits. Unfortunately, I get a clear impression here that Andersen is not at all interested in contributing to constructive cooperation in order to resolve the situation around building a recycling facility for returns in Norway. We recycle plastic, we recycle glass, and of course we should also be able to recycle three. If Andersen had attended an hour and not only been concerned with passing inaccuracies to the Progress Party, she would have realized that in our alternative state budget we have spent money on Forestia and have clear leads to Forestia being able to get support to implement the facility they are working on, what they want to realize. We have also received with the Stortinget – I believe it was a unanimous increase – on a common note in the context of the state budget that the government must ensure that such facilities as Forestia wants to build are supported. So I don't fully understand the point of the polemics of Karin Andersen. At least it does not contribute constructively to solving the matter, and at least it does not contribute constructively to the green shift and all that, which I know SV is very concerned about. Here we have the opportunity – and I really hope that the Minister of Oil and Energy will bring it in to his colleagues in the government – to contribute, with little money, maybe 70-80 million. kr, in order to obtain the first purification plant for return in Norway. Then a bond CO 2 can almost forever. One recycles the tree, and as long as one does not burn it, has a bound CO 2. It's great for industrial creation, it's great for the green shift, and it's great for the forest industry, which is an important industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4421	We were obviously challenged, especially by the Council of State, and then I just have to repeat something very clearly. I started to say that emissions from the socket account for one third of the CO 2 emissions. At the same time, we have seen that there is a huge increase in demand for renewable energy. And then there are certain areas where it is challenging, where one has to weigh up the electrification of the socket against the establishment of new industry in particular, and partly up to infrastructure with ferries. So we say, and it's also clear in our remarks, that essentially it should be solved with wind power. We want to push forward a new supplier industry, which we believe has succeeded in the past, by giving them exactly the possibilities it creates, and we have not rejected that where appropriate, where we have excess renewable power, we electrify that part of the socket that is closest. Then I just have to repeat that when we dealt with wind power on land, the Workers' Party was one of the parties that was very clear that we are still going to build wind power on land in the right places, because we recognize that we need more renewable energy. We see that, especially in the case of sea winds, we have huge wind resources. But as I mentioned in the line exchange here, we also see that it has taken a very long time to get the framework conditions that take into account fishing and the other marine industries. But we see that other areas, especially on the bottoms around the North Sea and the United Kingdom, etc., are much more ahead than what we've been here from Norwegian point of view. The same applies to the deployment of the network, more efficiently with regard to transmission capacity. It takes ten years to put it in place. We also have a rush to make it happen faster, so that the energy we have benefits the whole country, and especially where we lack energy today. Summaries: We are also attached to the socket for a balanced use of our energy, but to the extent that there is a need, we believe that most should be done with wind power. And we're more optimistic, we think something will happen before 2029. Maybe we'll do better when we get in position as well. I'm not going to say so much about today's Council of State, but the Progress Party has had the Minister of Energy for very many years and perhaps not quite the big challenge that we have in several of the areas that I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4433	These are important questions that it is good to clarify. Now Ruth Grung answered this clearly. I just want to stress that even in a situation of the future where there is as much power production on the base as that used on the base, there will be a need for cables to and from land, because it doesn't blow all the time, and sometimes it blows too much. If you want to remove the gas turbines, you have to have a balancing force against land, so you have to build cables. But what is our very clear message, as Mr Grung also very clearly explained, is that we should have as much sea wind as possible, because the ambition for the greatest possible sea wind is also a way of bringing forward the future marine wind industry, that is the domestic market that the supplier industry needs. So there should be a high ambition for offshore wind power to the base. And so – in a future where there is less need for power on the base because oil and gas production is falling, some fields are going out of operation simply because of age, or that there is no more – so the first sea wind areas, the first sea wind farms, have been built for future export. So this is actually a columbi egg, but there can be no doubt that even if you have full force development at sea, wind power must always be balanced against something else, and it will be to land or some kind of intermediate storage out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4440	Thank you for the answers from the Workers' Party. I ask because I sincerely wonder, and because I am genuinely curious about whether this means a change of policy of the Workers' Party. I think I got some more answers. Once again, I agree that this is complicated, and there are a lot of reasons we're going to weigh each other, and that are going to be important in the future. But I still think that I did not get a very clear answer on whether this means that the Workers' Party, for example. we do not think we should have more power-from-country projects on the projects that are now coming forward until we have sea wind in place. That in itself will be a useful clarification. Because even if the Workers' Party comes to government for the autumn, if that were to happen – I'm going to work very hard for it not to happen, but if that were to happen – I don't think a possible Labour Party Council in the Oil and Energy Department will be able to build enough sea wind by 2030 to meet what is coming. We know there's a lot of plans on the base now. Many rightholders are developing projects with the requirement that we assess power-from-country solutions, and this will be a matter of deciding on as a matter of course. I think it is important that we clarify whether the Workers' Party believes that we should not actually have more of these projects until it can be solved with sea wind, because then I think we can put things quite far back. So that's really the debate I'm a little bit into. I think it's a little bad that the Workers' Party is not part of the comments in the setting that simply describe the reality as it is, what we have of opportunities right now. The representative, Barth Eide, is concerned about something important, that it is not possible to do this exclusively with sea wind, but that you have to have a connection to land. Or you have to build an alternative gas solution at the same time, along with the sea wind, in order to have the power to run production at any time. So this isn't easy. I think we should think about what we are best served with in view of the development of sea winds in Norway, because there is nothing we do exclusively to provide power for oil installations; that is something we want to do to bring about an industrial development. Then we have to make sure that we also set up a race where it can evolve in a direction that benefits the industry and allows more players to participate. Then it’s not safe – if we set that race up, the urgency of getting the electrified platforms – that it will provide the best industrial development in the entire value chain that exists within sea winds. That's the one I'm busy lifting, and of course I'll also get a lot back to in the big message that's coming soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4449	The representative Espen Barth Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4454	It lasts a long time with a short comment. I do not know exactly where this doubt has arisen, but there is no doubt that we believe that cables from land should also be built, and that in the future they will become to and from land, because when you gradually get enough sea wind capacity out there, it will be a two-way balancing. If you have enough power on an average day, you'll have surplus power on a few days and a deficit on the other days. It will then be possible to go each other's way. The ideal is for this to be a one-to-one exchange, but then you have to have cables. So we haven't said at any time that we're not going to build cables, but we're going to have as much production as possible based on sea wind or other renewable energy produced at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4459	What is quite clear is – what I thought happened a long time ago – that Babel's tower has just fallen, and the Workers' Party has got a whole new language, which is not possible for us others in this staging room to understand. The nice thing about language is that you can have coherent, coherent reasoning, you can understand, but it's no longer possible for the Workers' Party to talk about electrification of the base. For now we have heard what has been called clear posts from the Workers' Party itself, but which are completely unclear posts, and which go directly into the clinic with what the Workers' Party writes in the notes. And what is the Workers' Party writing in its few comments on this matter? They write: ‘These members believe that the electrification of the base shall be carried out as far as possible with sea wind or other renewable power produced on the base, balanced by power from land.’ – Yes, ‘as far as possible’. And then they have a proposal, together with the SV and the Greens: ‘The Government requests the submission of a plan for electrification of the cap using offshore sea wind.’ What happens in this case, and the reason why it is difficult to get clear answers, is that the Workers' Party has a big problem. For four years, the Workers' Party has said that there is no change on the base. You have said that the government does not give priority to sea wind. I remember well when the government had presented the first strategy for sea wind and the Workers' Party stubbornly insisted that a document they held in their hands did not exist. They say nothing happens in carbon capture and storage. At the latest in the Newspaper today, it was a play that claimed that the government is passive in carbon capture and storage – something that this government is planning to spend billions on. For four years, the Labour Party has been doing this. But then the Labour Party realizes that people see what's happening in reality, and then the Workers' Party has to go further and say, "Yes, but they don't understand what they're doing, for example." to use this new technology for, so now we say that, as far as possible, electrification of the base is to be done using sea wind – as if we are opposed to electrifying the base with sea wind. That's what's happening. That's why it becomes unclear. It may well be that the representative Barth Eide is trying to say that you also want to use power from land, and that you actually have to be able to electrify more, because with the policy it says here, they wouldn't know. But he always has to pretend that there's something that's not happening in the conversion on the base, and that's how you get this unclear communication. The truth is that the Workers' Party is revealed, and therefore they don't even understand what they're saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4481	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4486	It's that tempo plan for the Workers' Party that doesn't go all the way. I understand that one will have industrial development and will be involved in it, but then one also has to ask the question: how are we going to achieve the 2030 targets if one is going to wait to develop liquid sea winds to get the power production you want, or one would like to grow a little more ants? On a case-by-case basis, there are proposals that do not reduce emissions. Nor will one contribute to the multiplicity of industrial potential that is now in green transition. The representative Ruth Grung was inside the Progress Party. They had the Minister of Energy for many years. Yes, they helped to develop liquid sea wind in the areas that are now bright. They contributed to carbon capture and storage, and they also helped to build liquid sea winds and electrify the base. What's a little grumpy is that the Progress Party has turned the reel around after they left the government, but that's their choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4493	The representative of Terje Halleland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4498	Now many have been about the same theme that Espen Barth Eide was up and certainly tried to clarify. But I expect that if you were confused before, you probably didn't get any less confused after Espen Barth Eide started talking about the priorities of the Workers' Party. Because if you read what's right before the comments that the representative Heggelund was making, it says: «These members consider it important to ensure that further electrification of new and existing fields is not to be at the expense of electrification of new and existing industries on the mainland.» Yeah, then you really have to ask what order this is going to be in? So we're going to electrify the base, and it's going to be by force from land. And after what I understand in the Workers' Party, they realize that they can't have power left over, but that it won't go out on industry anyway. They have a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4508	The representative Espen Barth Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4513	There are probably several of us who are concerned about solving the question that someone is asking, but we have a little problem understanding what you're wondering. So we mean the following: we want to electrify the base, and it needs power. So we need cables from land. Then we will build as much sea wind as possible so that a maximum share of this electrification can occur with sea wind. But since sea wind has to be balanced against other forces because it doesn't blow all the time, or sometimes blow too much, you need cables to and from land. That is why we support the development of land-based cables, which is why we support sea winds, and therefore we have a goal that most of the electrification is to be done with sea winds. At the same time, we are clear and clear that it must be balanced with power from land. It requires cables. What we're saying about the whole is that we want to get online now as we get a message about Norwegian power resources and industrialisation, that we find good solutions on how we get enough power both for the mainland industry and for the base. And in that picture, there's a big bet on floating sea winds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4522	The representative Ruth Grung has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4527	As mountainers, we like debates, but it's a little bit unclear what we're really discussing. Because I thought we were pretty clear that especially in the mountain area there are ten different major industrial projects that have been refused because of lack of energy. Then we believe, as was said in the line exchange, that when we have to have an open discussion about whether we should prioritize the limited resource to electrify the base, or whether we should contribute to creating new industry. It was a premise. We also know that the way we have managed to develop new industries and new suppliers is precisely the interaction between industry and – for authorities – setting good framework conditions. The framework conditions attached to the sea wind have been called for, that they are so concrete that they give a marshalling earth. So it's possible to have more thoughts in your head at the same time, and it has the Workers' Party, and we have a good solution to the policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4534	This was a little strange ending to the debate, but I think I can remind you that a politician, like all other people, has two ears and one mouth, and sometimes it pays off, instead of yelling, actually listening. Because Stefan Heggelund said that it was completely impossible to understand what the Workers' Party meant, and then he read out the Workers' Party's comments, which are closely linked. I think the Right should spend more of its time reading the Workers' Party's notes, because it actually says what we mean, which is now said in more articles, both by Ruth Grung and Espen Barth Eide, about what we actually want. We want to contribute to electrification. What can be electrified should be electrified in order to become a low-emission society, or a zero-emission society. Of course this also applies to the base, but it is a goal that as much as possible is done by sea wind. Something will be possible. We're going to get as far as we can in 2030, but I'm pretty sure we're not going to get all the way to the goal, but then we're going to keep going beyond that. Tina Bru referred to the height of Utsira and said that the parts that stood up for it no longer stand up for it. I totally disagree with that. I fully agree that it was the opposition that pushed through electrification of the Utsira height. The right-hand side and the front-hand side were opposed. They fought almost as much against that Statoil, now Equinor, did. But the politicians took power and – in this room – helped to decide that we should electrify the height of Utzira. It was avoided that we locked in large emissions that would stand there for decades to come – and today Equinor boasts that it is one of the most important things they do for the climate. So there was a decision that came out of this hall, carried out by the opposition. But what's absolutely right, and I think the right hand parts are completely right, is that we want something different than the right hand parts. We have greater ambitions for what it is possible to achieve from industrial development. We believe that what comes from sea wind from the government is too puzzling and too little. We want more. In the previous case we all honoured the ten oil bids, and it was spoken as if this was something all the parties have agreed on. No, it wasn't. It was a political struggle to get it through, between the right and the left, but the left side won and said that we should bet on this, that we should get big things in Norway, we should get to industrial development in Norway. Then we need political governance. The same right-wing parties that boast that what happened in the 1970s was something that everyone agreed on, are the same right-wing parties that are now fighting against us doing the same thing. We see that the countries around us do it, in Europe they do it, Jo Biden does it, but in Norway we can't get to our own market. So here it's quite obvious that there are big differences between the games. I wish the energy message could come earlier, so that we could actually discuss it. The positive thing is that it comes just before an election, so it is possible to make changes and bring about much stronger policies if there is a new majority in this Chamber after the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4547	There has been a fascinating connection between the electrification of the base and sea wind in this debate, while the Labour Party will use sea wind to electrify the base, one must also have land cables. Sea wind is at the moment. very expensive, but land-based cables are also a costly affair, and construction contributions that need to be made to get the cables from land to land will require a great deal from the operators on the base. So it's worth asking, is it right to isolate sea winds against the installations on offshore? We think the answer is no. Sea breezes must be used to electrify on a general basis and not necessarily connected only to the socket. That's what's going to happen for sea winds, because sea winds are going to be used to electrify Europe as a whole, not just the base. So that's why this becomes a bit of a strange debate, and the connection made in this representative proposal between sea wind and electrification of the base, we don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4554	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4572	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4579	This is a long-standing debate in the Committee on Energy and the Environment. This is a repetition, a matter that has followed the committee throughout this period, and we have had a close relationship with this matter through the work we have been doing almost since we started this period. I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and, in particular, I would like to thank the proposers for the two proposals we are dealing with together here. In fact, the majority is going to suggest that we reject both proposals, but it is really very beneficial that we get the opportunity now at the end of this enlargement period to go through what was said in 2018 about the future – that is, the future we are now in – measured up to the realities we can now actually observe in the truly existing world. Then I want to start by fixing something that I think there is a very broad consensus about in this room. It is that Norwegian power should benefit Norwegian industry and the people of Norway. We want good security of supply all year round and low power prices. We want national control over energy policy. We're going to achieve the climate targets. We want an orderly and clear relationship with our closest partners in the Nordic countries and Europe. Our cooperation with the EU in the field of energy does not stand in the way of any of the above-mentioned objectives, on the contrary. What I'm saying now, might hit the legs under a slightly tested and established line of reasoning saying the very opposite, built up over many years in Norwegian energy policy, and where the questions raised are on the whole scale – from some important questions that should be resolved, to some misunderstandings and a little bit of alternative facts. At the heart of the opponent's story was the mythical little energy agency in Ljubljana, which would then force us to build cables we didn't want, to land that didn't want them either. They were to decide that the flow in Norway was more expensive, public ownership was to be challenged, and revenues from short-term sales, so-called bottleneck revenues, were to be reserved exclusively for the construction of new inter-national connections, to take some of the main examples. None of these voted. This is actually wrong. I think we're going to use this debate to go into it a little bit. I also want to challenge those who, perhaps most clearly, have presented these arguments, to document how these things relate. For example, the claim that the EU Acer works at the same price as possible, we have found many references to No to the EU pamphlets, but no references to them in the legal basis of the Acer association. These are the things we now want to be informed during this debate, which I think will be important, and we will come back with more on the individual points.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4598	Today we are discussing two motions for resolutions Nos 8 and 8. One is a proposal to stop further adaptation to EU energy legislation and the EU Energy Agency, Acer, and to refuse any treatment of future acts relating to energy market packages 3 or 4. The second proposal proposes to start the process of withdrawing Norway from the EU Energy Agency. The Progress Party will support all three proposals in both cases, i.e. proposals 1, 5 and 6. We are also going to support proposals 2, 3 and 4, which came along the way in dealing with the matter in the committee. For the Progress Party, national self-determination is important. We have taken a clear position that we do not want Norwegian EU membership and further integration with the EU. We want Norwegian power generation to contribute to increased value creation and employment in Norway. We have therefore been clear that we do not want Norway to be the ‘green battery’ of Europe, which was the vision of the red-green government. We have taken a clear view of foreign tables, and we are proposing to say no to NorthConnect, which was actually a climate cable for the UK, which would contribute to higher power prices in Norway. Lower electricity prices are one of the major competitive advantages for Norwegian industry, and it should still be. Unlike many of the other parts, we've also taken a clear stance on wind power. Even at the national meeting this weekend, we have adopted a principle no to wind power. As part of a tripartite government in 2018, the Progress Party accepted an adaptation to the EU's third energy market package. However, we do not feel obliged to support all the policies of the government, and it is not that the Progress Party will continue to support everything the government has done until we go out in 2020. On the other hand, we have been clear, after we left the government, that we are voting in favour of the proposals we are in favour of, and against the proposals we are against.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4609	A majority in this room will adapt Norway to the EU without hesitation, without concern and without taking into account the fact that the Norwegian people have twice rejected Norwegian membership of the EU. The EEA Agreement forms the basis for this EU adaptation. The EEA Agreement was never the subject of any electoral campaign or referendum, and the consequences have been more far-reaching than the followers back in 1992 would ever admit. Through the EEA Agreement, the EU intervenes in Norwegian maritime governance in increasingly new areas, bit by bit. Energy should not be part of the EEA, but it has become. It is also the challenge of the EU Energy Union. It is manufactured by its trailers as if it were of a technical nature only. At the same time, it is beyond doubt that the EU wants coordination and a harmonised electricity and energy market. The impact of such a market is a price development with the result that we will be able to achieve higher electricity prices, while those parts of Europe that currently have high prices will be able to approach the Norwegian level. This is how market mechanisms work. Norway has a long tradition of using our rich natural resources, using its hydropower to create jobs, building good communities all over our long-range country, creating values. The fact that, as a large energy nation, we are now going to be subject to the EU Energy Union in important areas is something the Centre Party has argued strongly against, and we are going to continue to do so, because we know what it will take once it has got its little finger. As the representative Barth Eide had arrived at, this matter was dealt with in 2018. I heard that you tried to ridicule the resistance that exists to ACER. Yes – you just have to do that. The problem is that the Constitution’s renunciation requirements were taken lightly, and then the same powerful forces that have twice won the fight against Norwegian EU membership were mobilised. This time the cancers were mobilized so far that you went to court, and it's exciting to see what's going to happen to the legal processes. Whatever the outcome, it should be a lesson that we do not take lightly the issuing of authority by Norwegian maritime councils, and that is the case today, among other things. It's about. I am also surprised that you do not choose to suspend further adaptations to Acer until you have clarified the legal processes. It would have been natural, taking into account the gravity of the matter. The majority of the Court of Justice has held that ‘the courts must be able to review whether the Grand Duchy has acted in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution’, as the Grand Duchy has agreed to the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the legal acts contained in the third energy market package. The reputation of the Supreme Court raises questions as to whether this decision was constitutionally valid at all. It would then be natural if the majority of the population were to remain in EU alignment until legal clarification was available. But when one – the setting shows that you continue as if nothing has happened, and I think people will also notice that EU adaptation is more important than Norwegian interests and the Constitution’s intention. I'm taking up the proposals from the Center Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4624	The representative Ole André Myhrvold has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4629	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. This is because many politicians before us were very foresightful, like over 100 years ago, when they guaranteed national control over both ownership and use of hydropower. The concession laws, adopted in the early 1900s in the United Kingdom to ensure better national control of energy resources, have been crucial, and energy resources will be crucial for Norway in the future. It has been very important for the development of both Norwegian industry and the construction of the Norwegian welfare country. Therefore, it is doubtful from the SV that it is in Norway's interest to maintain full sovereignty over the country's own energy resources and own energy policies. Similarly, as it was important 100 years ago to have full national control over the use of national energy resources, it is not now in Norway’s interest to allow the EU to regulate Norwegian electricity according to its interests and system. So SV supports that we subtract from ACER. At the same time, I would like to say that there are some elements of EU energy policy that we should definitely look at and that can be incorporated into Norwegian law without doing so as part of the EEA Agreement. We're allowed to do that, with different changes that we want on our own. We do not have to stand outside the parts we find seas are useful, and I would like to mention the objectives and measures of the Energy Efficiency Directives and the Building Directives as something we in Norway should address.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4638	I have to admit that I would probably be unsure of what procedure I would have chosen if I had agreed with the revolutionary Communist Party Red – whether I had chosen the cautious line of the Progress Party, or the more discerning line of the Center Party. Either way, there are two parties that you'd think were far from a Communist party, but that's where you're going to agree and agree with it. I would like to thank the Co-operation Committee and thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done, and also to say that he made a good and – in this debate – clear contribution. Our power system, what we have had for decades, is now a model for Europe. That's something we from the Nordic region should be proud of, Europe is copying us. Why do they do that? Yes, because they see that it is good for consumers, and that is good for security of supply. But then it's extra good for Norway – extra good for Norway. Why? Yes, among others. because we are sitting with half of Europe's regulatory power – small Norway sits with half of Europe's controllable force. No one makes more money on power exchange and power cooperation than we do. We sell when it is expensive, and buy and import when it is cheap – so good for Norway. And we haven't given up any sovereignty at all. It's simply a terror propaganda that also helps to create a distrust of some of the country's best lawyers, who have actually sat and evaluated this by the government. Karin Andersen said that it was important for the Socialist Left to have national right to rule. Yeah, we got it. That's why this Storting had a review of the concession conditions for wind power. We discussed what should be Norwegian wind power policy, because we are the ones who decide. Now we're in ACER. That means that the claims of the representatives Andersen, Myhrvold and Meininger Saudland fall entirely on their own unfairness. It is Norway that decides whether to build, for example. NorthConnect, no one else. That concession is suspended. I have not seen any letter from Acer saying that it is not allowed, because Acer cannot – we decide. We have to be better than this. Yes, we're going to have debates and discuss with each other so busta fuss, but we have to relate to reality, even if it's approaching election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4651	I share with the case rapporteur, Barth Eide's introduction to withdrawing perspectives back to 2018 and what has happened now. None of the ghosts a pulled up has turned on. I think this debate is very appropriate in the extension of the debate we had on the adventurous opportunities we have in Norway for electrification and industrial development, with liquid sea wind, bottom-solid sea wind, with carbon capture and storage, with hydrogen. We need electricity to do all of this. That's when I have to look back a little bit and wonder, where does this enormous commitment for something as technical as Acer enter the population? I really don't understand anything, when the alternative to that discussion is clean energy, electrification, industrialisation, green shift – the opportunities for the future to get rid of greenhouse gas emissions. That's what I don't quite understand. I think that social media and Facebook have gone a little way because of some actors – who it is, I don't know, but this has to be driven by some actors who want to create polarization and a debate that's completely meaningless. It's about getting cables to talk to each other. That's the main purpose of the Acer. When we're electrifying the socket and making Europe talk together through these cables, it's to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. That's really necessary. And as the representative Heggelund says, this is what the Nordics have gone into to do together. It was the Center Party that went into the brink of Nordic cooperation, and has been involved in building all foreign tables so far. And then all of a sudden, no, NorthConnect doesn't fit into the system. We're going to build quite a lot of electrical cables in the process to reduce fossil energy consumption. Now the Trump era of polarization and nationalism is over. I hope that we will get on track and discuss clean energy, electrification and the adventurous opportunities that Norway has for the future, in order to remove the fossil emissions from the industry and take advantage of the great electrical possibilities that we are fortunately sitting on, and that we will then accept that we will work together in Europe on something that is so technical and so little political.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4664	Let me start by adding myself to the line that thankes the case spokesman and the committee for a good work on this matter. There is a large number of comments behind the settings, which I think fitly go through some of the statements that have been made in this room over several years, and which are still presented without any reason, or are able to justify how they actually relate. It's serious in and of itself, but let me just briefly do things for why the Christian People's Party is in the plurality that's now. When the matter was dealt with in 2018, the Christian People's Party asked the Supreme Court for a settlement, as one had done when one dealt with the financial agency a few years earlier. And then I see that several parties are focusing on the same possibility, and now for the first time we've also been given a ruling from the Supreme Court on the practice this will have had in these kinds of cases. As the Council of State in charge of the Ministry of Transport said, it is rarely a case of a co-conspirator's right to say that the department has done a good job, but that was the conclusion when we asked for that. There is a broad majority in Stortinget that has joined the third energy market package. There is a broad majority in this room that has wanted to build on the cooperation we have had with our neighbouring countries – not just over years, but over many decades – about power exchanges to ensure our common industry and to ensure that we are able to go through the green shift we are forced to do. We're going to have to do that. We've had three years of debates with statements that didn't seem ground-breaking, and with quite such creative reasoning. On the one hand, we have been given the right that the Storting has said of itself the responsibility and the ability to influence extraterrestrials, while at the same time the same parties that have made the claims, have made proposals on a proposal in this Chamber on the treatment of exactly the same projects and the same cables. The time may have come to lift your gaze and look forward to it. We're going through a green transformation. Norway is part of that transition and will be a leading country in the way we have been when we cooperate with our neighbouring countries through Nordic cooperation. Now we're part of a good cooperation, which ensures that we can make good use of our resources, in line with what this room wants, and which also makes us contribute to our neighboring countries. We should do the same in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4678	We talked earlier today about the fact that it was not the oil alone, but the principles that underpinned the management of oil, which allowed the wealth from the oil to benefit the community. That's the same thing with the hydropower. In fact, oil management is largely based on the lessons learned from hydropower. By taking national control over force, we ensured that it was processed in Norway, instead of being exported as a commodity. It has provided jobs, value creation and export income in the billions class. We've got viable communities along the whole coast and the world's purest metal industry. Aluminium produced in Norway has only about one fifth of emissions compared to the international average. It is precisely this that is being played out by leaving control of the Norwegian energy system to ACER, while building new foreign tables. The more integrated Norway becomes in the European electricity market, the more our electricity prices will be in memory of the Europeans. The result is not only more expensive power for people most, but one of the most important competitive advantages is confusing and with that puts the whole power-processing industry at risk. What we need instead is predictable power prices, and we need the opportunity to regulate Norwegian electricity prices if they get so high that people have to choose between food on the table and heat in the house, as we've seen in January this year and winter 2019. That means we need national self-determination. When we join an energy union where more and more policy decisions are taken transnationally, it is precisely this national right of self-determination that we lose. Therefore, No to the EU has taken the Acer case to the judiciary, in order to find out whether the transfer of power is so dramatic that the accession should have been made under the Basic Law, § 115, by a three-quarters majority. On 1 March, No to the EU was informed that the case could be brought before the courts. This means that it is currently unclear whether Norway’s agreement to ACER is constitutionally valid. Norwegian accession to ACER has already caused a lot of fear in industrial environments throughout the country, and large parts of the trade movement are opposed. Moreover, the fact that the decision is valid at all now means that Red believes that we should immediately stop further adaptation to ACER.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4689	Once again, we're gathered in this room to discuss ACER. But the story of the proposers doesn't get any better even if they repeat it. On the contrary, it's still completely wrong, it's wrong. Energy supply is the EU's largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, and in order to achieve the Paris agreement's emission targets, the EU is working for a more climate-friendly and efficient energy supply. EU intervention in the power market is based on the same main principles that we have had in Norway since the 1990s. And in the Nordic region, we have good experience in exchanging power, as we've been doing for decades. Such power trading has been of great benefit to both Norwegian producers and consumers. Norwegian municipalities, county councils and the state also benefit from the large proportion of public ownership of power resources. Now that the Nordic countries and the EU are working for a more efficient power market, there is every reason to participate in this. Even in the interests of Norwegian industry throughout the country, with a need for stable framework conditions and unhindered access to European markets, there is a need to support EEA cooperation. I have also noticed the need for the industry to protest against the claims of the Red Party and the Senter Party. You'd think it made the impression, all the time these parties are happy to push the industry forward in this debate, but no. For, as industry itself says, neither the third energy market package nor the legislation adopted to that effect deprives Norway of its own energy policy. Norwegian authorities provide concessions for power generation, power grids and foreign tables, and of course this is still the case. The treatment of the requested NorthConnect power cable clearly demonstrates that Norwegian authorities are assessing whether to grant a concession to this type of project. Here in Stortinget, there has also recently been a shift in the direction of wind energy policy in the country. We have that clearly on our own – without any help from Brussels. Many conditions affect Norwegian electricity prices. Let me say that it's not ACER that controls these. Much can be said about this, but one of the most important things is that the Norwegian power system is and becomes weather-dependent. That's why we had record low power prices last year, which was also our first year as formally connected to Acer. Power generation and demand in neighbouring countries also affect price in Norway, as has been the case long before ACER was established. It would have been very nice if also the Center Party, Red and SV soon took this inward.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4709	In the conclusion of the Supreme Court, the majority of the Court of Justice states that, through ESA, Acer is able to take decisions of relevance to Statnett and that it is the EFTA Court and not Norwegian courts which are in a position to challenge the possible imposition of fines in line with the legislation. We have heard earlier today that ACER does not go beyond Norwegian maritime law. Does the Council of State consider this to be an example of a reduction in Norwegian maritime law?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4714	It is the NVE that has been the Norwegian regulatory authority for the power market since the 1990s. It is in accordance with the laws adopted by the Stortinget. And even if RME is not to be instructed in individual cases, Norwegian laws and regulations apply. In specific areas, in certain types of cases involving Norway, the EFTA Surveillance Authority shall be able to take decisions against Norway. This is important in order to resolve disagreements on technical issues of energy trade between countries. I have noticed that there are some people who are trying to make RME as a kind of agent for the Commission or for ACER. I don't recognize that at all. It's rather the opposite. RME is our spokesman for Norwegian interests in the work being done between EU authorities and within the Acer Energy Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4719	I record that the Council of State believes that transferring power to an international court is not a reduction in Norwegian maritime law. I take note of that. One of the reasons why we are here today is No to the EU case. The question of whether the Constitution § 15 is broken is now subject to legal review. The reputation of the Supreme Court raises questions as to whether this decision was constitutionally valid or not. Why will the Council of State not make a continued adaptation to Acer until there is a legal ruling?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4726	It is true that this question should be tried in the courts. In the course of that treatment, the State will state that the decision of the Storting was in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. It is also the case that the Supreme Court has recently made a reference to the Stortinget, where it is established that the Stortinget can agree to the inclusion of the fourth railway package in the EEA Agreement by a general majority. In this regard, particular attention is paid to the fact that the Storting for a long time, and often unanimously, has broken the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution in the case of so-called non-interventional transfer of authority. I see no reason to stop the important work of ensuring that we have equal rules of play in a market on which we are totally dependent, and which provides good conditions and predictability for Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers, also in a climate perspective, pending the trial. I believe that the Stortinget made the right decision as we discussed this issue in detail in 2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4733	It is here that the public opinion gives the impression and claims that Norway can decide completely itself on all questions relating to this case, for example regarding the use of bottlenecks. In their reporting to the RME, no later than 1 March of this year, Statnet has specifically stated that in the case of emerging bottlenecks, they are to be used primarily ‘to maintain/increase the interconnection capacity between countries, while the use of tariff reduction has been given lower priority than before’. Can the State Council confirm that Norway is bound by what Statnett here writes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4738	We still have the opportunity to use bottleneck revenues in the way we've done in the past, just to reduce web rental. There's no change in it. I think this question is probably an example of the central party trying to draw a picture that this is something other than what it is. Regardless of what is meant by regulatory development in the EU, which affects us in any case, because we are connected to the countries around us, not least in the Nordic countries, but also in Europe, it is in Norway's interest to sit around that table and participate in developing that legislation. We may not always agree on everything, on the technical, on details, but that Norway has a vote in there, that RME is there and takes care of Norwegian interests and speaks with our voice, is very important. Sometimes I wonder what the center part really looks like. Is it that you want to cut all connections to all countries, including Sweden? If that is not the case, how does the Central Party see to it that we must ensure that all follow the same rules of play, which are in our interest in this market of which we are part? Or aren't we going to be part of that market anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4743	In what the Council of State here says, it's clearly expressed that there's someone who's going to sit and decide. That's what ACER is doing. In issues where there is disagreement between countries, such as the allocation of costs by cables, ACER can go in and decide, and they have also done so in concrete projects. What I specifically asked about relates to bottlenecks, where it is claimed that Norway is free in that area. What I have read is linked to a regulation that Norway has accepted through the third energy market package of the EU, and Statnett writes on 1 March this year that it means that bottleneck revenues ‘are to be used primarily to maintain/increase exchange capacity between countries, while tariff reduction uses are given lower priority than before’. Does the Council of State agree or disagree with what Statnett writes here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4750	What is referred to here is talk about where there is a need in the EU internal market between countries that are in completely different situations than what we are in. That doesn't mean we have to use the income this way. Therefore, as I said before, we can still use bottlenecks revenues to reduce network rental. I think that is important that we still can, and it is Norway's right to decide. So I've repeated it once again, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4758	It is also the case that the EU has a list of priority projects, where there are projects, including: The NorthConnect cable that has already been mentioned here, which is on that list. The EU has an ambition to remove bottlenecks between countries, i.e. build new connections, and one says in concrete terms that, in the case of bottlenecks, they can be used both to maintain and develop the capacity to exchange between countries, to prioritise them, and to reduce tariffs should be given a lower priority than before. What I want the Council of State to confirm is that what Statnett here describes, which is in line with the EU Regulation, is Norway bound by the fact that one has accepted the Acer and the third energy market package.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4763	I can understand the confusion of the Central Party, because now the Central Party has repeated many times that they believe that the EU can decide that we should build more foreign tables. So they can't. That is why this issue is completely irrelevant. It refers to how the legislation works, and when it's not about them being able to oblige us to build foreign tables, how are they going to oblige us to use the bottlenecks in one way or another – if they can't oblige us to build them in the first place? That's the important question. That's what I'm a little upset about by the Center Party, that they keep spreading the story that ACER can decide that Norway will build more cables. No, that can't be determined by Acer. That's what we decide. We have also shown that I have put the treatment of NorthConnect at risk myself. There's nothing happening in that concession now because we've decided. I'm sorry, President, but I'm a little upset by this distortion of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4768	There's been a little talk about prices here. Both ACER and more and more foreign tables will lead to more electricity exchanges across EU countries. A necessary consequence of this would be the harmonisation of price levels across countries. This is also one of the main objectives of ACER, and then I wonder: Can the Council of State secure those who work in the industry and guarantee that their competitive advantage will be established? And then how can she guarantee it when we don't know how, for example. The EU wants to change its legislation or decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4773	Yes, I can ensure that the industry's competitive advantage by being located here in Norway will be safeguarded. I do not know how much that is needed, because the industry itself has been out early and said that they believe that this legislation serves their interests. On the contrary, they have strongly opposed the claims that this is not something Norway should be part of, and said: No, this is important for us, it is important for Norwegian jobs, and it is important for our access to the market and predictability of power. But neither is it that Acer or the Energy Union has the goal of getting the same electricity price across Europe, understanding that our electricity price needs to be higher because it is now higher in Europe and it needs to be evened out. It is about the fact that this is the best thing for consumers, for the climate and for security of supply. Then I understand that the EU wants prices closer to our level, because we are so lucky to have so low prices in Norway, and we will take care of that in the future. There's nothing in this that challenges that image. But I understand very well that the European Union wants a more efficient power market, like what we have here in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4780	So large parts of the trade movement are opposite to ACER. Electricity prices are now a competitive advantage for Norwegian industry. Does this mean that the Council of State guarantees that this is the way it should be in the future – that is, that prices should be as low as they are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4785	I can't guarantee what the electricity price is going to be, because it's part of a market, and it's also very weather-dependent in Norway. When we have a very dry year, for example, it will affect prices, or if we have a very wet year, it will affect prices. But that's why it's very important to be connected to our neighbours, because then we can just make sure that we get a steadyest electricity price and don't get very swings up and down, high and low, depending on the weather conditions in Norway. But I can make sure again that I'm never going to do anything that puts this into play. I'm never going to do anything that puts the industry's conditions or industry's competitive advantage in terms of having access to sufficient, reasonably clean power in Norway, at stake. That's why I'm so sure and can stand here today and say this is good for Norway, because I don't fear it at all. And then I register that Industry Energy has been out today and said that this is good, so there are parts of the trade movement that also believe that this is important for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4792	That's the line change. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4799	With the Storting decision to join the EU Energy Union and membership of Acer, vital parts of Norwegian energy and industrial policies have been put in the hands of the EU. It is quite obvious – despite what various speakers from the government parties and, in this context, the Workers' Party are trying to give the impression – that ACER and the EU have the objective of creating an internal market for energy, free flow of energy and balancing electricity prices in Europe. One of the things you can do is go into the Acer's own website and see what they write about their mission and purpose. It says, among other things. that, in accordance with the objectives of the EU, ACER is to ensure the integration of national energy markets. They say that the Agency should promote an efficient energy infrastructure and networks that allow energy to move freely across borders. So it's clearly worded by ACER what are the ambitions of cooperation. Here in Stortinget – despite the fact that we have had repeated debates on participation in the EU Energy Union – there is no way to be involved in a reality description of the EU's ambition in this area. This is why network development plans are also being made, priority projects on the part of the EU, because bottlenecks between countries and flattening electricity prices are to be eliminated, which means that electricity prices in Norway are being pushed up over time. So to ACER's existing problem. So ACER has authority in cases where there is no agreement between countries to determine, for example, the cost allocation for the deployment of cables. It has already been decided by ACER, which is binding on the countries involved in ACER. There are quite specific decisions that apply in this case. In the fourth energy market package, Acer will go even further. Statnett will be mandated to develop network development plans to be assessed every two years, and the EU Energy Regulatory Authority, RME, will ensure that the network development plans are followed on the Norwegian side. If those network development plans are not followed, RME has a responsibility to push through the expansions contained in those plans, in line with EU projects. I note that a number of speakers from the Workers' Party have signed up after me. It will be exciting to see if any of the speakers from the Workers' Party have taken on board the decision taken by the National Assembly of the Joint Union to say no to ACER and reverse the decision of the Stortinge to be a member of ACER, or whether they simply lie down in the wake of the government and the Green Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4812	Discussing with the Progress Party is like shooting at a moving target. You never know what you're dealing with. It shows almost all of the issues we are discussing within energy and climate – whether there are windmills, whether there is electrification, or whether there are foreignables. Even if the climate problem exists, the Progress Party continues to have a continuous seminar on it. However, I do not think we have ever witnessed a reverse operation like we have seen in this case. Membership of ACER was presented by Terje Søviknes, Vice-President of the Progressive Party. This was not a compromise, on the contrary. It was so important for Terje Søviknes to get this done that he walked away from the privatisation of cables by the Progress Party. The Progress Party wanted to privatize the cables in order for them to build more, but it was so important for the Progress Party to get an impact for membership of the Acer that Terje Søviknes left its original policy. Let's see what he said in the big debate in 2018. Then he said: ‘1. Norwegian energy resources shall remain Norwegian. 2nd@item: inlistbox Norwegian authorities will continue to have full control and control over Norwegian energy resources and Norwegian energy policy. 3rd@item: inlistbox ACER itself will not contribute to any increase in the electricity price in Norway.’» I believe that the Progress Party must stand up to this pulpit and answer if it was a lie. Was that what Terje Søviknes said in 2018, just a lie? Why else have they come to their new position? Gisle Meininger Saudland did not come up with one argument as to why the Progress Party has now changed its position from what they thought three years ago. I see Terje Halleland sitting in the hall. I can read what Terje Halleland said in the debate three years ago: ‘However, we have fallen into the conclusion that Norway has significantly greater advantages in concluding this agreement. [[...]] He went on to say: ‘Should we believe in the terror propaganda brought by the Central Party over the past few weeks, the EU and ACER shall manage Norwegian power generation, with galloping power prices, and provide concessions for foreign tables from Norway – nothing with root in reality.’ He even made a bet with the Center Party and said he was ready to pay the entire electricity bill to the party for a whole year if it turned out that the EU had now taken over. I don't know if Terje Halleland today pays the power bill to the Center Party. He probably doesn't, because what he said in 2018 was quite right. What they're saying now is just nonsense, and they're showing it completely unprofessional in the policy of the Progress Party. This is driven by Terje Riis-Johansen, Ola Borten Moe, Tord Lien and Terje Søviknes. Later it was followed up by Kjell-Børge Freiberg and Sylvi Listhaug. And so it's Sylvi Listhaug who's now pushed this through in the Progress Party big group twice. It is as true as it is said from Tord Lien: this is very unwise. The Youth of the Advancement Party believes that it is pure populism. Is this what's going to be the Sylvi Listhaug Progress Party, I think we can see why the Progress Party is now doing its worst measurements ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4843	Like the representative, Kjeseth, I also wonder what is the purpose of these repeated incorrect claims about ACER and the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is too important to be used for other policy purposes. It is an agreement on which Norwegian export companies depend — tens of thousands of jobs throughout the country. When the British voted to leave the EU, there was a great deal of enthusiasm among the no-parties. Finally, we should have an alternative that was better than the EEA. Now the fasit is here, and the enthusiasm for the brexit agreement seems to have taken place, both among the no-parties and in the United Kingdom. The difference between a trade agreement and the EEA is the difference on the domestic and away markets, especially for our main export industry from the mainland, the fish. Now British fishermen and food producers are begging the government to become part of the veterinary legislation so that they do not have border controls. And ironically, the British would like to be part of ACER and energy cooperation. Do the no-people here in the Chamber think it's to give up control of energy policy? The most incomprehensible is the Centre Party, I would say, almost frenetic attitude towards the EEA. Because there are two industries that have the biggest advantage of the EEA, which should be at the heart of the Central Party: agriculture and fisheries: fisheries because the agreement gives access to our most important market without border control — something customs-free, but the alternatives are worse — and agriculture because the EEA Agreement keeps agriculture out of the internal market. What is the Farmer now concerned about in the negotiations with the British? Well, the pressure between protecting agriculture and better access to the market for fish should open up too much cheese and steak from the British. There is a cross-press we release in the Section 19 negotiations with the EU, because in the EEA Agreement agriculture is protected, and therefore the Confederation also asks us to protect the EEA Agreement. That should make an impression on the Center Party. What is behind these repeated attacks on the EEA Agreement reflects what I would call a national populism, and it is serious and misleading. How many times is the claim that Norway is giving up its energy policy? The fear of what a connection to the Acer would entail has not turned on, as the case-rapporteur Espen Barth Eide so brilliantly began with. Have the electricity prices in the Nordic region been the same? No, no, no. On 12 January of this year, electricity prices varied as much within countries as between countries. What we've been part of for decades, an integrated Nordic energy market, has not deprived us of control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4856	I want to link some comments first to Seher Aydar's points, but also to Gülsvik's questions, whether we took over the views expressed by the Joint Confederation, Industry Energy and LO in this matter. Yes, to those degrees – we were in a very in-depth dialogue over a long period of time on how to deal with this matter. What came out, which has been confirmed even today, is that their great concern was new cables like NorthConnect – much more than ACER. And you're actually now warning about more fights because you've seen that what we're saying, and that we're agreed on, is actually right, and that much of what was said in 2008 is wrong. Seher Aydar is right in a point, and I'll give her that right in. If you build a lot more cables, especially if you build them at higher electricity prices, you're right to import some of that price to us. That's why we're opposed to that, for example. shall build NorthConnect, and that is why we are engaged in maintaining control of cables. But it's a completely independent question, because as many of us – including the Council of State – have been involved: It's absolutely true that Acer can't oblige us to build cables. That's why it's absolutely wrong to say the opposite. In this room we break opinions, and there are many legitimate views that stand against each other. It is just as legitimate to be against the EEA as it is for the EEA and for EU membership. There is no objective answer to that. But then there are some questions where the answer is either correct or wrong. They're digital. There are only two possibilities. One of them is, can we be instructed by ACER to build new cables? It can either be right or wrong, and it's wrong. That position is wrong. Another position is that the purpose of ACER is equal prices in Europe. Then it has to be somewhere. We have checked everywhere – not just on the website, but deep within the legal base. It's not there. It's absolutely right that it should be fully integrated, just like we have in the Nordic region, and that we've achieved the longest in the Nordic region. And as Svein Roald Hansen pointed out quite correctly, it doesn't mean that prices are going to be identical. This means that the market is functioning and that there is a relationship between supply and demand. What No to the EU has been most right is to describe this as an EU adaptation, but I mean by the opposite sign, because the EU has adapted to us. What the EU has done is to learn from the Nordic countries. In fact, they have learned from the Centre Party, for the largest integration builders in the Nordic power market, with Eivind Reiten and a large number of energy ministers at the head, have been central government councils in Norway, which have really got to this well integrated Nordic power system, which the EU is now copying to be ‘fully integrated’, but without having any equal price target, which is also completely impossible because supply and demand vary. Everyone who has been travelling in Europe knows that goods in Europe do not cost exactly the same. It depends on where you happen to be. And so will it be with force. We'll always be so close to the sources that we want a low price anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4872	As many people have experienced, the Nordics have been a pioneer in developing energy cooperation, which Europe has envied us, for there are no other countries in Europe that have managed to build up such cooperation in some other areas rather than what we have on energy. With the developments we are facing, access to renewable energy is crucial. So it is clear that creating an effective system for the exchange of renewable energy is absolutely essential for Europe to succeed. And then it's quite natural to see exactly what we've done in the Nordic region. And that's really how, as many people have been about, we've applied the principles we've developed through Nordic energy cooperation, and raised it to the driving rules that are now called ACER. And we've lacked power in Norway until now and we've had the opportunity to exchange power after we've been missing power in Norway. It has given us lower prices and increased predictability. And if there's anything the industry here depends on, it's just predictability and access to power. So I wonder, how do you imagine the cooperation to come forward? I have been in the Nordic Council responsible for energy policy. But what happens when our neighbouring country Finland, Denmark, Sweden all join the EU and then join the ACER? So what's left of our energy cooperation and the Nordic model when they're in the ACER on the other side? Norway has benefited from the fact that we have had magazine power, but it is not certain that we will maintain that competitive position if we sign out, because renewable energy is now being produced in many places in Europe. If storage capacity can be developed, it will probably no longer be able to transmit cheap power to Norway. Then they'll be able to process that power on their own. And if we sign out of energy cooperation, it's not in the future, to what extent can we defend the Norwegian interests? Is it given, if we announce, that they are interested in cooperating with us on marine networks if we are to sell wind power in the future? Is it given that you are willing to use our gas if we can also clean it for CO 2? What is the risk assessment of the no-parties here? If we politicians are to take responsibility for this, it is to safeguard Norway’s interests in the future. And it changes. It's not like it has been, but we have our advantage, and we have to make sure that we maintain them in the future as well. That is why we believe energy cooperation with good driving rules and transparency is right – and we are good at negotiating.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4888	Norway has been part of a Nordic power market for several decades and has had an integrated power market with our Nordic neighbours. This power situation has helped to keep electricity prices down here at home in Norway. I would like to stress that Norway has full national authority over our power policy, both before and after the implementation of the third energy market package. In this way, our co-operation with forces has been a model for EU-EEA co-operation, as the representative Barth Eide said. The centre party now proposes once again that we stop all adaptation to the EU energy legislation and the third energy market package. The argument is in the paper, but what I think is incredibly important to clarify, is what is the consequence of the proposal of the Central Party. What's going to happen? There's nothing about the consequences of this, there's just criticism of what's been done. So no one in Norway really knows what is the consequence of the Central Party's proposal to stop all cooperation. It is clear that this will have a major impact on jobs, on industrial development and on our electricity system, and I would like the proposers to explain this. I may also have to disappoint Gülsvik in view of the electoral group you are talking to, because Industry Energy has followed the matter carefully and today gives the Centre clear notice that there are enough rematches now. Frode Alfheim spoke with the dissent that the total package that the Workers' Party has been negotiating with the government parties has clear assurances that Acer will not evolve into something we do not want, and that they are satisfied. It says a lot. And an untruth won't be any more true the more you repeat it. Finally, the turnaround to the Progress Party: The representatives from the Advance Party were very clear in the previous case that the Workers' Party had to clarify its policy. Be so good – they'll get it back, whether it's the Halleland representative or who it is now: we're very busy knowing what's happened in this case, since you've been throwing around and going completely the opposite way. After all, the Progress Party had the Council of State when we reached an agreement on this matter. It would be enlightening to get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4899	I have sat and listened carefully to all of the speeches that have now been held by the Labour Party’s representatives of big business, to hear if there was one of the speeches that showed that one has taken over the strong voices that have emerged from a number of Norwegian trade unionists who have warned against Norway being part of the EU Energy Union and being a member of the Acer. And to the reference to the Joint League – I think it was the representative Barth Eide who referred to the Joint League and the process that has been there: Well, the Joint League made a decision at its national meeting in 2019. That was about. a year and a half after the decision was taken in the United Kingdom on the accession of the European Union to the Energy Union, with the votes of the Labour Party. At that national meeting in 2019, the Joint Undertaking adopted, inter alia: to say no to Norwegian participation in the EU Energy Union, Acer. ‘Norway must say no to Norwegian participation in the EU Energy Union Acer - Stop any further expansion of cables to other EU countries. The decisions already taken on ACER must be reversed and the Joint Confederation must support a professional initiative to investigate whether the decision of the Storting in the Acer case is contrary to the Constitution, i.e. contrary to the requirement of a 3/4 majority, on the one hand, when national self-determination is to be waived on the other.’.» This, therefore, took place at the national meeting in the Joint Undertaking in the autumn of 2019. So to both the representative Norderhus and the representative Grung, on energy cooperation with the EU: Yes, we have a long tradition of cooperating with EU countries on energy, and the EU imports and depends on importing large amounts of energy. What is interesting is that the only major exporting country of energy to the EU that is a member of ACER is Norway. All other major exporting countries of energy to the EU — the EU, which are dependent on importing about half their energy needs, in fact more than that — are not members of ACER and do not plan to do so either. And I have to say that those who are sitting and listening to this debate, and who have been committed to the fact that both the Labour Party and other parties should listen to their demand that Norway should retain the right of access to vital parts of the energy and industrial policy on Norwegian hands and say no to Acer, but are being met, for example, by the representative Hansen, that there is talk of ‘frenetistic’ attitudes and ‘mal’ claims – despite the fact that what is coming from Acer even though the objectives of cooperation, when it says what is in the EU’s bottleneck distribution directive, should listen carefully to it when it says what is in the EU’s fourth energy market package on further integration and submission in the case of Norwegian decisions in this area – should listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4919	To Gülsvik's last article, I would like to repeat, as I said last time, that we have had a continuous and good dialogue with the trade union movement, also with the unions concerned, and we feel that we are well united in the solution we have now found. It became increasingly clear to the trade union movement that the attempt to connect the connection to the EU’s third energy market package to the decision on new foreign tables was incorrect. But that was strategic. We know – and this is not a secret, you can easily find out by following a little bit on No to the EU – that there was a deliberate attempt to take an important debate that took place in the trade movement, which was quite real, on an important question: Should a new cable be built for the United Kingdom in addition to the one that Ola Borten Moe decided to build, that is North Sea Link? And the point of that was strongly no. I agree, but then you tried to connect it as if this were two things that were related. I would like to remind you – I do not know if it has happened for all the representatives who have been on the opposite side here – that the United Kingdom is therefore not in the EU. They've signed up. And I'm afraid it's already known in 2018 that the United Kingdom was on its way out, because that's what they would have voted for in 2016. So the claim is – or was at least – that the EU should apply a country on the way out of the EU, which would not be in the EU, and another country, which has not been in the EU, and is not going into the EU with the first, namely Norway, to build a cable. It's an absurd claim, and it's fallen on its own unfairness. But then I'm actually a little interested in hearing, because there's a lot of focus on the Supreme Court and what the Supreme Court thinks about the general majority or the majority of three-quarters: Is that how you understand – it might be interesting to hear the representative Gülsvik – that if the Supreme Court came to the same conclusion that they came to the railway package, namely that the Stortinge had acted quite correctly, that it is then considered that the position has been clarified, and that the allegations that there was some mistake in the decision-making process are therefore rejected? Because that must be the logical consequence of asking the Supreme Court. And at least the founding lawyers I know say that the probability that No to the EU is respected in the Supreme Court is about as small as in the lower courts, where they lost every time, that they are not going to win out on that case. I'm glad that this is now coming to the Supreme Court, because then we get to clarify this. The railway package did not use the two-pillar system in the EEA. You do that here, so really the railway package went further, so I'll say that the probability of that is low. But the question isn't what is the likely outcome, but will you then respect the Supreme Court's decision and recognize that claim as crazy? It might be interesting to get some information, not least from Gülsvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4928	It's not easy to get the answers out of people who don't want to talk about the matter, but rather want to talk down other things. But I'm actually not going to give up, and I have a couple more rounds on me yet. I want the Central Party to explain to us the consequences of the proposals contained in this proposal for a representative. They shall explain how this will affect the energy situation of Norway, industrial development, workplaces, etc. It's incredibly important to clarify it. I believe that the Center Party, in terms of the position you take, has a much bigger challenge than those who have actually clarified things and worked to reach an agreement that ensures the continuation of something that is good, and has resolved all the challenges that came when we were working on this matter. Everything that came in of things people were worried about, was checked. So finally, once again, the party of progress, are they here? I asked for an answer, I asked for an explanation as to why they have changed their vision. Is there anything in the course of the case that has helped them to change their vision, or is there anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4937	Like the representative Norderhus, I also call for the answers of the Progress Party. It is clear that when they turn so completely down on what they say, then I almost think they should argue for it. At least they should say if they take a break from what their re-elected Vice-Chairman Terje Søviknes said in 2018, if it did not actually vote. If everything he said in 2018 turned out to be wrong, then it is a political scandal. I think they have to make some arguments as to why they meant something other than what they are doing today. I also want to spend the time giving a response to Sigbjørn Gülsvik. Although he claimed that no one answered him, I think almost everyone in the Workers' Party was about the themes he raised. But to put it that way, there's no one in the Center Party who needs to teach the Workers' Party what the trade union movement means, so that we can understand what they're saying. We talk to them every day. I was referred to a decision that was made in 2019. Well, the Workers' Party has been talking to the Joint Confederation almost every day since 2019, about power policy, industrial policy, climate policy and international work. So there are sometimes disagreements, it's in a big movement that the movement of workers is -- there will sometimes be different opinions. We're fine with that. In this case too, there are still some people who do not agree with what the Workers' Party believes. But we notice, at the meetings we have and the conversations we have, that the intensity is very different. Also those who are most critical, see that now there's a lot of what they were afraid of and had sincere concerns for, that haven't been shown to hit. It's probably true that the head of Industry Energy, who's also a LO Workers' Party, talks a lot to, says. He says they've got a big decision, that the most important thing for them was to stop several foreign tables, and that the total package that gave clear assurances about what Acer was not to build up, they're satisfied with. Continued rematches contribute nothing but unnecessary noise rather than securing the strength of our industry. We know that the Red Party and the Center Party are against the EEA, that's what their main motivation is. And it's true: there's disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Center's party on EEA issues, and that's why LO's new leader, Peggy Følsvik, has also said very well about why the Center Party is an out-of-date party for her to vote on. Then she said, ‘I think first of all that Sp has an approach to international issues that is very far from me. I see them as protectionist. I believe that, as a small country in Europe, we must be active both in Europe and in the rest of the world. It may be the most important thing for me." So that's what the leading trust voter in the labour movement in Norway says. I think that the Central Party, which is so concerned about what the trade union movement thinks in this case, should also listen to them on European issues and international work, and that is what is at the heart of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4953	There are several reasons why I drew myself now. One is that I see that the Central Party has not signed up for a new post to answer the perfectly legitimate question they have received. If the Supreme Court believes that the Storting has acted correctly, what does it have to say about the central party's position? The fact that this is going up there is one of the main arguments of the Center Party. I'm just waiting for someone from the Center Party to sign up – now I see that this has happened, and then I can go on to say that I'm also curious about the Advance Party and that reverse operation. Gisle Meininger Saudland said to NTB a few days ago that this was a compromise you agreed to when you were in government. I can say that that's not how we experienced it. An answer to what has happened, how this case has evolved, which means that the Progress Party is now opposed, it would have been interesting. And then finally, the Socialist Left Party has been quite silent in this debate. It's kind of funny given that they have a leader who said that SV will do anything to solve the climate problem. Clearly not: they will not cooperate on renewable energy in Europe; they will not allow Norwegian renewable industries to innovate, develop and have greater revenues – which is good for Norway – by contributing to the use of coal, the use of fossil energy, down in Europe by increasing renewable energy in Europe. Those who had to walk around and live in the error that SV is a climate party, or that SV is willing to do anything to get the emissions down, they just have to see the truth in their eyes. SV is not a climate party, SV is not willing to do what is needed to bring European emissions down – even when it serves Norway, they are willing to do so. It's quite amazing how this debate has evolved, how there are so many claims that need to be recovered, recovered and recovered, and then they just show up again, again and again. It's almost not to believe. But then there's a campaign in a country that's going very well, and there's obviously something you need to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4962	This is a debate with clear fronts, at least we can say that. But I'm reacting to the rhetoric that's going on trying to make it happen that those who are skeptical of the Acer connection, as well as based on the wrong premise. That's how we disagree with the substance of the case, what the meaning of Acer would have. The Supreme Court, as I mentioned in the reply to this question, has held that it is the EFTA Court which can review the imposition of fines on operators in the market, and it is the Acer via ESA that can take decisions of relevance to Statnet. So to me, it's a denial of right of self-determination. And then the voters have to decide if they mean the same thing. To me it's quite clear, it's nothing less than a waiver of sovereignty. The representative Svein Roald Hansen spoke about EEA, so he doesn't understand the resistance to ACER. No, but this is also a story, a story with the EEA that has taught us how profound the EEA agreement actually is. Some claimed that the EEA would not affect, for example: Norwegian collective agreements, some accused in the party leader debate during the EEA debate in the 1990s. Former Prime Minister, Harlem Brundtland, accused Anne Enger Lahnstein of lying in the live TV debate. But the Transport Workers' Union, which went to boikott to force a carrier to accept tariff agreements, lost because of the EEA Agreement. It was Anne Enger Lahnstein who was right. There is only one example of the depth of the EEA agreement, and it is a fear that ACER – with the third energy market package and the fourth energy market package, which the Workers' Party likes to call the clean energy package – will also be. That's the cause of scepticism. The Force Exchange is OK, the Centre Party is not against force exchange, but we want to have sovereignty over this itself, and it is, as the representative Geelsvik said, many countries outside the EU that export force into the EU without being a member of the Acer. It works quite well, and it worked quite well until we became a member of the Acer – as far as I've got with me. Then the representative, Heggelund, usually comes late in the debate and asks what is the opinion of the Central Party if the Supreme Court condemns what is the central party's position. So the center part has a substantial resistance to ACER, which I have now tried to explain. We want to maintain sovereignty over Norwegian power resources, and we fear that here we have to give up on the EU system. This will take a long time, and before this judgment is passed, the fourth energy market package will be on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4973	I was quite clear in my speech about the position of the Progress Party, what the Progress Party thought and meant, but I note that the debate – unfortunately perhaps – is going as expected, because it is going to be harebled here. Instead of talking about your own policies, what you want, you should talk about your other people's policies and what you think they want. The representative of Aukust spent all his time talking about the Progress Party, he did not talk about the Labour Party's policy once – not only in one post, but also in the other. I'm actually reacting to the way you try to ridicule other representatives in this room, how other representatives in the hall laugh when someone is talking, etc. I actually think it's a uterus that we should stick to too well. There was one thing that we were still challenged on that has happened in retrospect, one thing that the representative Heggelund mentioned, and that I think made a strong impression on many of the FrPs. These included: when Norway’s Minister of Oil and Energy wrote in a letter to the Stortinget that the EU regulates the power market in Norway too much in terms of both the level and the level of detail. It is clear that there is an impression when the Minister of Oil and Energy in Norway writes it in an official letter to the Stortinget, where it actually warns and writes that the EU regulates the power market in Norway too much. In the end, I will refer to the article I had at the beginning, where I said that the Progress Party when we were in government also accepted things that are not necessarily our primary policy – just as it does not surprise anyone that the Progress Party votes against tolls when we are out of government. I explained in my speech that we are voting for the things we are for, and we are voting against the things we are against. We have been clear in the course of the debate on what we mean in this matter, and I explained that in my previous post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4982	SV has not changed its view on this matter. I have to say I am a little surprised when representatives of the Right say that all climate policy is on this matter. That's not right. SV has a strong climate policy and a better climate policy than the Right and Government have. We cut more emissions in our proposals. I also said in my speech that it is part of what is in EU policy that is good and that we believe Norway should do, among other things. the actions we have called for the government to implement. They are very important for energy saving, so that climate action can be carried out elsewhere by reducing the use of other energy sources. Where has it gone from there? We've been asking for that for a long time. I don't know why the government is going to go on, but we don't need the Acer to do it. I don't know if there are any other interests for which the Right really fights more, for example. smaller wholesale and more gas exports. These are legitimate economic interests, but good climate policies and policies are not. It is a bit strange to hear this from parties, who would rather buy climate quotas in the EU than take the cuts at home and make sure that we get industrial development, technology development, jobs and money earned in Norway. There is a climate policy that SV believes is wrong. We believe that by taking the cuts at home, we reduce emissions and gain advantage in industrial, technology and competence development, which we miss if we follow the government and the Right says. The strangest thing is perhaps to say that if you are a climate party or not, you stand and fall on this matter. There are a lot of issues in climate policy that we can probably also discuss, but cutting greenhouse gas emissions in Norway as much as we actually need, we can do fine without the support of ACER.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e4996	I will come to the end a little bit back to this question to the Progress Party and Meininger Saudland's answer to that. In the period when we worked a lot on this matter, I personally and our fraction worked very closely with both the former State Council of Søviknes and then with the State Council of Freiberg and with Terje Halleland and good representatives of the Progress Party. If this was something they were really against, I would say they hid it very well. Then I have to say that they have an impressive ability to play enthusiastically in a matter they were really against the inside, because it was very difficult to see traces of it. Now I don't know what's going on inside people's minds, but I just want to give a recognition that the Progress Party then has an incredible ability to play in a matter that they're fundamental to. I almost think that development seems to be more compatible with fighting about a particular group of voters than having done a new analytical review, which came to the conclusion that everything you said was wrong at the time, but it gets them to decide for themselves. I want to tell Karin Andersen that I actually agree that SV has a lot of good climate policy and also a lot of good industrial policy. Especially good is the one that is the same as the Workers' Party, and where we agree. But I have also noticed that in the SV green deal, which has a lot in common with Europe's green give, very many of the industries and industries that are to be developed are obviously designed to export to Europe. It is very linked to exports to a domestic market that is Europe in the first place. Then I think it might be a good idea to think about whether a clear relationship with that market – at a time when trade policy becomes more demanding otherwise, where we see customs walls coming back – may actually be part of the premise for that. So I want to say one more thing: there's no one here from our side who wants to hare off with other people's views. Views are legitimate, and we have different views. That's good -- that's the core of a democracy. On the other hand, I believe that when there are claims that can actually be broken down to yes or no, and where you can check whether that is right, then it must be allowed to say so. For example, ACER can put cables on us – no, wrong. The aim of ACER is to achieve equal prices in Europe – it is wrong. ACER will challenge Norwegian ownership – it is wrong. ACER will reserve bottleneck revenues exclusively, because it was the claim in the pamphlets, for more expansion capacity – it is also wrong. We know this because we have the empire when we're in it. I think it's a good idea, even if we break different points of view, at least we can agree on the facts. For even in this hall, the facts should have power.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5007	My comment also goes to Meininger Saudland. He asked what the Workers' Party meant, but I think it has come very clear what the Workers' Party believes about this matter. He felt ridiculed. I didn't make any sense. On the contrary, I quoted what Terje Søviknes said in this pulpit – read out correctly what he said for something. Then the Progress Party has to endure being met with the fact that they have turned completely upside down on what they said. For the Workers' Party, taking our power seriously is one of the most important things. Unlike the Progress Party, which wants to privatize our power, it is to have national ownership, public ownership, over the power of the core of what the Workers' Party stands for. But since he doesn't come up with one single argument, except that he wants national control of the force, we can hear what Terje Søviknes said when he got questions about this at Stortinget. Then he answered: ‘I would challenge the representative of the Battle of Vedum or some of his party traps to respond to this, not only in general terms, but be precise and point to where in the different parts of the third energy market package there are points of reference to negate under these claims. They do not exist.’ That's what Terje Søviknes replied to the claims Meininger Saudland just made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5021	Since my response to the Stortinget about some details in the regulatory design is what is now almost stated as the reason for the turnaround in the Progress Party, I feel the need to explain it a little bit. And then it's nice that the Progress Party has so much respect for me, but I suspect it can't be exactly that. When I characterised EU legislation as detailed and comprehensive, it is because I see that the contractual and non-statutory cooperation that we have had in the Nordic region is now being more formalised in EEA-relevant legislation. So there's a lot to say about the need for it in the EU. For us, this development is something we have to relate to. In any case, the main principles of EU regulation are in line with what we are used to in the Nordic region. In any case, the responsible solution here is not to leave to others to decide how this development should be, but to continue to cooperate. We must also be involved in the relevant forums where the technical and practical solutions for efficient power trading are to be developed. So I just have to say: I was also in Stortinget when this was decided in 2018. I worked closely and well with the Advance Party Councils, both Søviknes and Freiberg, who had this case, and I did not feel that they were not very much for this either. In fact, I felt that they were so for this that they themselves signed an agreement here in the Stortinget, where we negotiated something that has been an important position for the Progress Party, which was their law change when this government took over in 2013, to open up that even other than Statnet could own and build and operate foreign tables. So it negotiated the Progress Party away to make sure that we got ACER. So important was this matter. I think it was quite right, because this matter is just so important. Of course, we should have good debates. And then maybe some of us have had a little bit of high commitment -- it's been temperature. But when I have also had it today in the pulpit, it is because I honestly believe that this is good for our country. It is important that we get it in place, that we are involved in that development, and that we cooperate on the best for Norwegian industry, for Norwegian jobs, for the future we are going to face in combating climate change and cutting emissions, and all this good interaction that happens. That's what Acer is actually about. And then we can discuss lots of small details, but we have to be able to agree on the facts. I think Espen Barth Eide said it very well on the pulpit here instead, so I don't have to repeat it. But we must be able to deal with this at least when we are discussing such important issues for the future of Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5034	The representative Else-May Norderhus has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5039	We are debating two proposals. One is: ‘The government is asking the Government to stop immediately all further adaptation to EU energy legislation and adaptation to the EU Energy Agency Acer’. The second proposal is: ‘The Commission requests the Government of the EEA Committee to reject any examination of future acts relating to the EU Energy Market Package 3 or 4.’; I know that Gülsvik is going up to the pulpit afterwards, and that's good, because then it's interesting to ask: what is the consequence of the two proposals? Is it that it's so premature that you don't have an answer to it, or is it not thought, other than that you have to do it, and then you see what's going on? Do you have an explanation of value and a plan for how this may be carried out? It would have been okay if he could answer that. The agreement we've been working on and the country is very open, but this hangs in the air, quite simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5054	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5059	At the representative of Norderhus, it seems that it is almost an insurmountable problem if Norway fails to implement and go further into the EU Energy Union while addressing the issue raised by No to the EU in the third energy market package. I would remind you that when the Storting made its decision to join the Third Energy Union in 2018, it had been almost a decade since the EU adopted that legislation. Of course, it is not a problem to wait for further implementation and, as we suggest, to start a process of withdrawing Norway. So to Aukrust's representative and, to some extent, also to Barth Eide, who says that the most important thing for the trade movement has been no to foreign residents and no to NorthConnect: Well, if they listen to the trade movement like that, it's very strange that the Workers' Party has not taken advantage of the occasion they've had in Stortinget, to secure a majority against the NorthConnect cable, as one could do with the Labour Party's votes. Instead, it has been ensured that the government has put forward a proposal that will allow NorthConnect to continue to be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5066	Some of the things I like the worst are people who come up and say they won't extend the debate, and then they do exactly that. But I'll do the best I can. I look forward to the debate on the Energy Act. It's coming. To Gjelsvik – we'll take it when it comes. We're going to do that, and then it's very clear what the Workers' Party means. I want us to now, as we go in for a landing, have a little look at the future. I would first like to say that I was charged with calling the fourth energy market package the clean energy package. The reason why that's what it's called. That is what the European Union has adopted. It's called exactly that. It was called "fourth" in a working phase, but when it was adopted, it called it because it is part of Europe's green giving, so it's not something we've invented in the Workers' Party. We've just heard what's being said down there. It reminds me a little of a debate in No to the EC in 1993, when the EC had become the EU. There was then a discussion about whether No to the EC should change its name to No to the EU, and it was then a not insignificant minority who thought it should be called No to the EC, even if the EU called itself the EU. But the majority won. So it's natural to talk about a package from the EU with its proper name. The reason why I'm saying this is that we're going to have more debates in the future. It's a huge energy shift out in Europe. A lot is different. Right now there is still some coal left in the European energy system, but very much less than ten years ago. In the United Kingdom, it's almost gone. Several countries are shutting down their last coal-fired power station. Therefore, the CO 2 price is currently quite high. But in a few years, the element of renewable energy will also be very different in Europe, and then there is no more CO 2 price. This does not apply to the ETS, the allowance system, on energy. It's very important that we have some kind of openness for a future we don't fully know, and not now, some of us, lock ourselves up to positions that we've taken once and for all because we know what this is like. For the future, it's going to be different from the past, and it's going to go faster and faster in the years to come. I think it's a good idea that we're going out of this debate with some kind of consciousness about it. New issues arise, and Norway will be heavily affected by what is now happening in Europe, more affected by it than anything else. I think it's a good idea to take over, regardless of whether we think we're going out of the EEA, stay in the EEA or be in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5085	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5102	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5109	First, I must thank the Committee on Cooperation in the matter. It has become an annual tradition for this committee to deal with various issues that are concerned with ensuring a similar network rental across the country. One of the main reasons for this is that there is a majority in the Committee that believes that the government has not followed up the majority decision taken in 2019. Here the government was asked to figure out how to balance the network rental with effective instruments. The government has carried out an investigation, but has not made the changes the Stortinget asked for – and get it back to treatment in Stortinget. It testifies to me that this government is not so very concerned about getting a fairer web rental across the country. The large difference in network rental in different parts of the country is problematic, and it affects people in power stations and districts unnecessarily hard. If there's something we're all dependent on, there's power supply. Network services have a natural monopoly, where customers cannot choose other suppliers. That's why it's a public task to ensure a similar network rental and similar prices that take care of people and businesses throughout the country. The centre party is therefore in the case of a balancing mechanism that contributes to a smoother network rental throughout the country. At the same time, it is important that network operators are given incentives to develop a more cost-effective network to electrify fossil energy use and to facilitate new industries in a climate-friendly way. Renewable energy demand is rapidly increasing, increasing the need for network deployment. The centre party therefore considers that there is a need for a completely new funding model that contributes to the increased deployment of networks in those places that currently have a challenging power situation. There is no doubt that there is a great need to ensure a much similar network rental across the country. Therefore, in all its alternative state budgets and through the proposal of representatives, the central party has raised the challenge year after year, without any significant government concern about it. The government is more concerned with merging and reorganising the transmission system companies instead of developing a new model. The government has put in place the old network lease balancing mechanism, but there is almost no financial means to implement it, and that is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5124	The working party is also for a similar network rental throughout the country. However, as the rapporteur pointed out, there are several challenges related to the financing models of the network companies, not least that they need to get incentives to deploy networks in the right places as quickly as possible, and that there is an urgent need to increase transmission capacity, so that we can manage the transition to the low-carbon society. There is no doubt that network rentals in regions with much increased consumption, few customers and long distances can be very high. We have also learned that the construction contribution, which has been increased to 50 p.m., may become unreasonably high some places, especially related to the charging infrastructure of some ports for our ferries, and also with charging stations to countries where there are long distances, so we should also look at that. I hope it will also be affected in the message that we know we get on June 11th. So we have to have a level of power bill that's socially accepted in the population, so that we get people with us in the transition we're facing. The electricity charge has increased by 40 pst. In the last seven years, and becoming too high, it is not only the social upsurge of electrification that can be challenging, simply the pace of electrification can also be challenging. We see that the SV's proposal could help us to have a predictable system, but at the same time, as the NVE has investigated, it might lead to a loss of intent to be cost-effective, and that would also lead to higher network rental rates for households and businesses in less-rented areas and subject to the arguments I mentioned instead. The most important thing for us is, as I said, that we are able to get a new funding model that addresses all the challenges we have discussed earlier today, and that we have also discussed earlier in the interpellations here. We also see a different pattern of change, and it's that more and more online companies join forces, and we see that Statnett should perhaps have a different role and perhaps finance some of the most expensive things in the future. All in all, we believe that the SV proposal is a good initiative, but it should be part of a whole where we look all the different elements up against each other. Finally, I address the proposal that we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5141	The representative, Ruth Grung, has taken up what the Workers' Party proposal is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5146	We are facing exciting times, when electrification of our country is one of the most important tasks we are working on to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. Fortunately, we are a country that has good resources when it comes to renewable energy. Although we have great ambitions for electrification in the future, we have good access to power. It's estimated that we'll have an excess forward, at least until 2030, maybe even 2035. What is not equally open is whether we have a network infrastructure that can tackle this electrification. Because it is not necessarily the case that the renewable power resources are where the need for power arises. We are making major investments in the network, and overall, there will be investments in the hundreds of trillion crowns in the years to come. The network infrastructure, which is monopolistic, is paid by all of us who make use of the fact that the electrons are moved from production to consumption. This is managed by a network company to operate a good, robust, secure and up-to-date network, while making it as reasonable as possible for us as consumers. Nevertheless, we must seek a fair distribution of the costs of our network infrastructure. Many assessments have been made. In these assessments, the NVE has stated that we need to have a targeted system for customers with the highest online rent, to which we have seen 20 million. kr in the budget for the current year. For years to come, a fair web rental will challenge us further. We want to experience innovations that make it possible for one to become more and less connected online. This is because alternative energy sources and storage media will challenge advanced paths for how we produce, store and consume energy. Sun, battery storage and locally produced energy or heat recovery will be able to reverse the electron currents. The users who used to be users can become producers. We must continue to work to ensure good and safe power supply to everyone in this country and work to ensure that costs are as low as they can be done, and that they are fairly fair and equally distributed. This is going to challenge us in the years that are coming, given the transformation that we are now going through. But it's a good principle that we should have as our goal, precisely that there's some sort of justice in this distribution. At the same time, we know that there are several aspects of user payment for infrastructure here in the country that will also not get even, cork before renovation, water and sewerage or other infrastructure. It does not, however, take responsibility for putting in place the measures we find likely to put in place a fair online rental, as we did through the measures in the state budget for the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5159	Web rental is something we discuss almost as often as we discuss ACER, so it comes to discussion at regular intervals. The grid rental always shows up when we have low power prices. Then it is very clear from the invoice that this is a service you have to pay for. So this debate comes up regularly, except for the years we have high electricity prices, because then it's the power prices we're debating. Web rental is a rental that we pay today, and that we're going to have in the future. Establishing networks will be one of the major challenges. Online rentals vary from company to company today. In addition, we have VAT and excise duty, which are geographically differentiated. Nordland, Troms and Finnmark are exempt from VAT. The municipalities in Finnmark and some municipalities in Troms also have exemptions from the consumption charge. Where in the country network rental is the highest and lowest, and how large the differences are, very often it depends on comparing network rental without charges with the network rental that the customer actually pays, including charges. Even though the network rental varies, it still has more than 90 pst. by household customers, a network rental close to or below the national average. Relatively few customers have a network lease that is significantly higher than the average. The NVE believes that instead of introducing a balancing mechanism, an effective corporate structure and an efficient network structure should be facilitated. Several investigations have shown that there are untapped economies of scale in the industry. Many also suggest that the total cost of operating and developing the mains network through the introduction of equal national network rentals will make the mains network more expensive than the current network lease system. The party of progress shares this view. Assessing the efficient organisation of companies is the best contribution to keeping costs down. Several would have had a similar web rental by getting fewer companies that would have more customers. There have been fewer online companies in recent years, we've probably gotten into about 115 pieces. But it's still a little bit to go on. If we compare with the United Kingdom, which has 60 million inhabitants, they have six online companies. If we are able to change the structure of the network companies and the differences in the network rental are still a problem, I will be the first to raise the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5172	The reason why we have addressed this proposal for a representative is that the differences in network rentals today are too large, not that they should be the same, as someone seems to think the proposal is going on. Often those who live near the power plants have to pay more in rent than those who live further away, and there are many strange effects that people don't understand at all. Without charges, network rentals vary from approximately 20 øre per kWh to more than 50 øre per kWh. For an average family, network rental costs may vary by several thousand kroner per year depending on where you live. There are some other things that are also different. We think this is a basic service that people have to have, and there's a reason to see if we can do it a little bit neater in price. A family with an average consumption of 20000 kWh per year pays with the most expensive network lease almost NOK 6000 more than those with the lowest. Now we're going to electrify society. Then more needs to be built, and costs will increase. With today's system, the load on some then becomes too heavy. That is why we now believe it is important to put in place some tools for fairer network rental. Our proposal in this case will ensure fairer and fairer network rental across the country. Our proposal means that no household should pay more than 30 cents per kWh. Then there will still be someone who pays less than this, down to 21 cents. To achieve this, we need an annual pot of about 700 million. kr. This can be done in two ways: either by imposing a low level of fairness charge on the network lease, about 1 to 1,5 øre per kWh, similar to the Enova fee, or by making a flat fee. We believe that a system that reflects consumption is the fairest. The money required should go back to the households in a way that ensures that we get a fairer distribution of costs. You can do it the way you use the NVE balancing pot on the state budget today. We can use that method to distribute this. We also believe that those receiving housing support should be covered by the housing support. There should have been a correction of our proposal No. 2, where it was to be said ‘the 2022 State budget’ and not ‘revised national budget 2021’, which has been presented today. As you have seen, it is not the halt break that stands here today, but I, so that's why this has not been done. But then I'd like to ask the President if there's room to be able to answer this proposal now. I will also address the proposals No. 2 and 3, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5187	So let's check that out. At least the representative has explained the change he wanted. The representative, Karin Andersen, has also addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5194	I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the Committee. We've got a good attitude that I think shows a common commitment to make sure that one of the most expensive online rentals in the country can be taken down somewhat. It's completely understandable. People are responding because they cannot choose from a web provider. If you have an expensive rent, you get higher costs. It is unfair when you look over to other carriers that are connected on the same network, but where the neighbours pay significantly less. In the committee setting that is currently in place, there are some things that I think it's okay to mention. First of all, there is broad agreement on the goal. It also turned out when a whole bunch voted for the process, to which it has been referred several times, where one had a proposal on how to get a system that ensures that we get something more similar on-line and provide incentives for efficient operation. There are quite a number of audio recordings that can roughly be divided into three. There was someone who was talking about a very offensive and great suffocation, others warning against it, and RME, the Regulatory Authority for Energy, and the NVE concluded that if a wanted a type of smoothing, a should do it in a moderate way, something both of the two parties referred to as the second best. This option has also shown some other actions, such as asking for further evaluation. to look at the input tariff, so that it is not left in the local network. It creates some gliding cabinets for areas that have a large production area and a relatively higher web content. It's a problem that I hope the Council of State sees and is willing to follow up, although I also recognize that there are probably some counter-arguments on the other side. In addition, one also looks at the so-called K-factor. There is something that the majority of the committee comments on. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is not that long since we in this House are dealing with the State budget. The permissions that are now in place have a better device than previous anti-aliasing arrangements, and when this was for treatment in this room, there was only one batch that suggested a different level from that provided by the government. All the other parties, when they had to give priority to good action against each other, said that the government had a reasonable solution. Then it's a little strange that a very short time later makes proposals that take up the width of that policy. For the Christian People's Party's part, we have a great commitment to getting more like web rentals in the country. It is about a level playing field throughout the country, and it is about a policy that takes the whole country into action. We mean the promise that came into place in this year's state budget, is a step in the right direction, and we will continue to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5207	First, I note that several parties in the comments on this case are opposed to larger and fewer network companies. It is, of course, paradoxical that those who currently have substantially higher network rentals than the national average are few and small network companies. That is to say, the regulation of the transmission system companies shall respect the financial framework conditions of the transmission system companies, while ensuring that the network rental does not exceed what is necessary for the customer. In relation to the examination of the request decision No: 84 identified different RME instruments and measures for the balancing of network rentals. Their assessment is that the use of the instrument should be adapted to the extent of the problem. The request decision was followed up in Prop. 1 S, and the Storting joined the government's proposal to reintroduce the grant scheme, which will now also take into account fees. For 2021, it's set at 20 million. kr to the scheme, which provides eight network companies with a total of approximately 37,000 customers with reduced network rental. Today’s scheme reduces the number of online rentals to customers with the highest level of network rental. It is worth noting that a comprehensive balancing system can weaken the network operators' intention to achieve efficiency and increase the risk of increased costs in the industry over time, including for customers, and none of us want it. Larger appropriations will be relatively less effective for exit customers, and the consequence for tariffs in the transmission system companies will gradually be modest. Several customers are included, but the tariff effects for each individual will be smaller. As in so many other cases, it is not useful to lubricate thinly. I would like to point out that we have had several investigations on tariff balancing in the past, and everyone has been rejected due to various weaknesses in the models. I therefore believe that it would not be appropriate to start a new investigation on this issue again. I would also like to remind you that the government has set up an expert group to evaluate housing support and assess future arrangements on it, which is also a theme raised in this proposal. It shall also assess whether and how housing support should be adapted to changes in the electricity price, including network rental. I think it makes sense to wait for the expert group's report instead of starting parallel investigations now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5248	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5255	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. The setting is based on extensive and thorough pre-working. The Ombudsman has set up a separate working group which has looked at a number of adjustments to the old law. In the examination of this report, the Control and Constitutional Committee went into the process of adopting a new law. The work on a new law was added to the sample that has investigated the control function of Stortingen, the Harberg Committee. The committee recommends the adoption of a new law which would go beyond the main principles of the current ombudsman regime, but with some substantive changes. The Committee almost unanimously agrees with the entire legislative proposal. Some of the larger grips are made, among other things. a new, more accessible structure of the legal text, that the current instructions from Stortinget are repealed and transferred to the law, while maintaining the right of the Stortingen to give instructions. It is then important to clarify that the Storting cannot, by general decision on the size of the store, restrict the Ombudsman’s authority under the law, either directly or indirectly, and that, in the event of conflict, the law will prevail. There are three parts of the setting I would like to refer to and underline further. The first is that the Committee believes it is important that the Ombudsman facilitates the complaint of children to the Civil Service Ombudsman, among other things. The Children’s Ombudsman and NIM have been called upon to conduct their hearings. The Committee calls on the Ombudsman to give priority to making available to children access to justice. It requires age adjustment of the complaint process. Second, the Committee supports the proposal to change the wording of the applicable Act § 3 from ‘individual citizen’ to ‘individual’ in order to capture the possibility for anyone to complain to the Ombudsman, irrespective of nationality, residence status and place of residence, as well as to appeals against organisations and companies. Third, the Committee stresses that there is a clear expectation on the part of the Stortinget that management will comply with the Ombudsman’s opinions. It is a fundamental prerequisite for Parliament's based administrative control that, even where the Ombudsman disagrees, the administration follows the opinions given. We see that some parts of the administration have too little habit of complying with the ombudsman, and it's worth problematizing it. Finally, where the committee is not unanimous, but where the minority in the control committee disagrees with the majority and with the unanimous Harberg Committee following the involvement of the presidency in the matter, the Civil Ombudsman is open to government documents and related documents, Section 20. The Committee, in its support of this paragraph, has taken into account the clarification and limitation presented by the Harberg Committee in its report. In the Committee's comments before the Presidency's opinion, the Committee is quite clear: it is the inspector and not the person in charge who needs to define what they need to know. It is the Ombudsman’s mandate and tasks that should be essential for the Ombudsman’s access to information from management. The Committee refers to paragraph 16 of the Venezia principles on access to information by ombudsmen's institutions and supports the fact that the Ombudsman must have full information requirements necessary for the control of ombudsmen. The Committee considers that the government has a legitimate need for there to be no public access to government documents, but it has limited importance in terms of the Ombudsman’s access to information as part of its control activities, for transparency and for publication is not the same. The Committee agrees with the committee's conclusion that the Ombudsman should initially have unrestricted access to administrative information, including government documents and related documents. We refer to the Ombudsman’s hearing response, where it is emphasised that access to government documents is already very restrictive and that this, as well as current practices where such documents are never passed on, will continue with the new law. This was the opinion of the Committee and joined it. So, after an exposure from the outside of the committee, a derogation was proposed anyway. That will probably explain to others, but I just want to point out that the Presidency of the Storting then restricts the transparency of our own body, and that we will then be subject to the international standards defined in the Venezia principles. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5278	I start by referring to the rapporteur's thorough review of the legislative changes that are actually proposed on what is now called the Civil Ombudsman, but which, on our proposal, will become the Civil Ombudsman. I would say that the civil officer is one of the jewels of democracy, because it is the appointed body of the Storting to ensure that the individual resident in Norway does not suffer from congestion from the administration or authorities in Norway. It's a great institution in our democracy. That has been the basis for the thorough work, I must allow myself to say, as has been done by the Harberg Committee – with some political competence and not least strong legal and state-scientific competence, which members of the Committee have. The representative Harberg, who took over the job after Hareide, has done a thorough job. It was a unanimous setting. The important principle to be applied throughout the control activities of the Storting, on which the rapporteur was involved, is: it must be the control officer at the end of the day and not the controller who defines the need for transparency in order to ensure – in this case – the security of the individual citizen in the exercise of power. I'm glad there's been consensus all along. We are aware that the government has wanted to limit the right of access. They documented that in 2018, when they actually submitted a bill amending the Civil Ombudsman Act. It is sensational in itself that a government allows itself to consult a legislative proposal to limit the work of one of the largest control institutions. The bill was never presented, because it was massive opposition – in the name of democracy. In the sample we've seen it on two more occasions. One was when the government sent its first call to the Harberg Committee on control activities to the Stortinget in general. The other was in connection with the fact that we had the Civil Ombudsman Act at the hearing, which a law had to, when the government at the Prime Minister was one of those who expressed themselves and thus proposed delimitation of the Civil Ombudsman's right of access. The restriction concerns r-notes and related documents. I am not aware, at least not as long as I have been on the control committee, that the Civilian Ombudsman has ever asked for access to r-notes, because the Civilian Ombudsman is not going to control political processes. They generally don't need it. What constitutes the drama here, however, is that rnotes and notes are said to be associated with them. That means that we give the government the power to define which documents a control body appointed by the Storting should have access to. There's the drama. So, as described by the rapporteur, there has been a broad consensus in this process, except for the recordings we have received from the government. I must therefore say it was with great amazement that I felt that it was the Presidency of the Storting, with the President's double voice, who took the initiative to weaken one of the Grandnings' own control bodies. In fact, I expect the President-in-Office, who used his double voice, to come to this pulpit and explain the logic that the Stortinget, at the Presidency, will take the initiative of weakening the Civil Service Ombudsman's ability to see the necessary documents. What is the reality of what the presidency initiated is actually a weakening of today's law. Some people make it like it's being tightened up, and we make it clear that the Civil Service Ombudsman is going to have a right of access. No, today's law gives no exception, neither for r-notes nor other government documents. There are recordings that have come from the government along the way, as a single cross-politically composed committee, with good academic competence in addition, has consistently rejected because we have maintained the principle that it is at the end of the seventh and ultimately the controller who has to define his need for transparency. That is why it is a sad and, in fact, a historic day for Stortinget if it happens that, when we are to vote on Tuesday, we are to adopt – on the initiative of the President of Stortinge with the double vote of the President – that the control activities of the Stortinge against the government are to be made difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5295	The mandate of the Harberg Committee was inter alia: to draw up a new law to replace the existing law on the Ombudsman of Storting for the administration, what we call the Civil Ombudsman Act of 1962. The mandate provided for the selection to be based on the Civil Ombudsman’s working group report issued on 4 July 2018 and the leadership of the Committee of Supervisors and Constituents, see: Inner. 223 S for 2018–2019. As the rapporteur has explained, the attitude is based on extensive and thorough work by both the sample and the Ombudsman’s working group. The Committee recommends the adoption of a new law transposing the main principles of the current ombudsman regime, but with some substantive changes. This applies, inter alia, to: the change of the title, from a civil ombudsman to a civil officer, and it is recommended that the Ombudsman himself appoint staff at the Ombudsman's office and that the Administration of Storting is the clearing authority of the Civil Service Ombudsman and the staff of the Ombudsman. The main task of the Ombudsman is to carry out subsequent control of the administration. The Ombudsman’s duties shall be expressed more clearly in the law so as to make it easier to understand what the Ombudsman can do. The Ombudsman has three main tasks: dealing with complaints against management, dealing with cases on his own initiative and ensuring the functioning of the national prevention mechanism in accordance with the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture. The Harberg Committee has based its work on a clear assumption that it is the controller and not the controller who has to define what they need to understand in their mission. The committee writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The committee would nevertheless stress that, as a clear rule, the Ombudsman should not ask for government notes and documents directly related to them, even if the Ombudsman is required to do so on a case-by-case basis as long as it is deemed necessary for the performance of his duties under the law. [[...]] Such documents shall only be required, by way of exception, in cases where it is absolutely necessary to deal with a case and there are specific points of reference for government notes or related documents to contain essential information. The sample assumes that the Ombudsman continues his practice of being very reluctant to require such documents. Furthermore, the sample would stress that the Ombudsman’s possible access to government documents does not imply that the Ombudsman should exercise some form of political control over the administration. The committee therefore considers that the Ombudsman should be particularly careful to ask for access to government documents in the framework of own-initiative investigations.’;» The government is of the opinion that the Civil Service Ombudsman does not have access to the government documents that we call r-notes. The government argues that, among other things: is anchored in the preparatory work of the Arbitration Act. There is an absolute ban on evidence in legal proceedings concerning discussions at government conferences. The national audit does not have access to the documents. The subsequent government does not have access to them. The R-note is therefore not issued to the Ombudsman today, although the Ombudsman himself considers that they have legal access. On the right, the bill supports the new Civil Ombudsman Act, but the government’s comment on government notes is not well respected in the law. Therefore, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left and the Independent Representative, as an addition to Section 20, the following proposals: ‘Except for government notes and documents directly related to them.’ With this, I'm going to deal with the minority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5318	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5323	I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of the matter and for the clarification of the changes that are taking place in this law. It is, as many have been involved, a continuation of already existing law. The reason why I took the floor, although the representative Mathisen was in the minority of the committee and their proposal, is that when you hear the chairman of the committee holding his speech, it sounds as if the Civil Service Ombudsman is being weakened by the changes being made here today. The representative of Andersen also agrees that the Ombudsman has never, as he knows, asked for government notes. No, then there's probably no drama, as it almost sounds like on the post here. Then it is that, when the Committee of Inquiry has this matter to deal with, it will be within the presidency, and it must be entirely legitimate for a presidency – whether it is with the President's double voice or not – to have any views and comments when the matter comes back to us. It may also be that there are other members of the control committee who have talked a little bit with those in the presidency before we got this case back. The clarification made concerns r-notes and related documents. The R-notes are the government's document — it is a working document, it is a note drawn up and taken to the government by each State Council — and sometimes these r-notes are not adopted when sitting at a government conference. But it is important that these documents actually belong to the government and the individual Council of State that have these r-notes. Then I am absolutely convinced that the Civil Ombudsman is going to be able to do the job they are set to do to ensure the rights of the citizens, without having the opportunity to obtain the R-notes and the documents that belong to them. That is why I am pleased that, in this setting, we have clarified the special status of the government notes and that we have promoted that proposal, with the clarification that is clear here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5338	First, I would like to congratulate Mr Civilombodet on his new law. It was necessary to adapt the promises to our time. When the Civilbodsman now becomes the Civilobs, it is the same big business we have had since 1962 – in up-to-date law. The environment is as it has been: the mayor of Stortingen for the administration. Civilobbodet watches over the individual citizen's courts in a professionally heavy administration. It shall continue to do so in order to protect the individual from injustice. The size has made it clear to the new guardian of the purpose of the Civil Liberties. This is where the Civil Service Office is to control the public administration and all those who do the service there, in order to prevent injustices from being committed against the individual, in order to help the administration show respect and guarantee human rights. It is decisive that the major bodies are independent in their activities. This means that the government should not have an influence on how the size control function is practised. It also means that the controller should define what information is needed to perform control. In dealing with this law of the presidency, there has been a dissatisfaction between the government fraction and the opposition as to whether it is necessary to regulate the transparency of civil law in government notes. I'm afraid that the government here blinds the principle of this. Of course, civil law must respect the government's internal documents, but the government must also respect the autonomy and control of civil law. I hope the government fraction at Stortinget thinks that our democracy rests on a division of power between magnificence and government, where Civilbodet has a self-contained role as a staging body. Accordingly, the Civil Observance shall have unlimited access to the management of its documents in order to fulfil its mandate. We shall not limit the transparency of the Civil Ombudsman. Then the individual would lose his dishes quickly against a professionally strong administration. So there's no doubt that it should be, and that it is, especially with government notes. I think that a collective Harberg committee has made this assessment in a good way and landed on it as the representative of Stein Mathisen in a good way read out here instead, showing how restrictive it is in the proposal that the ban should be. Therefore, it is disappointing that a choice to include it in a specific point in the laws. I think it should be unnecessary. I may not be so surprised at the Right and Advance Party, but that the Left and Christian People's Party can go for something like that, I must admit that I had never believed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5349	Let me first start by thanking the committee for the cooperation in the near two years that have elapsed since the selection was established. Of course, special thanks go to the two leaders of the committee, the current Minister of Transport and Svein Harberg, and not least to the secretariat, who deserve a special tribute. I find it hard to see that the latter could have done a better job of holding nine parties and a heavy professorial centre of gravity together, both mentally and physically – the last with reference to the ongoing pandemic. Allow me also to say that it has been personally liberating to have the opportunity to raise awareness of important constitutional issues that often go across party boundaries. It is rare that we, as representatives, are given the opportunity to go as deep as possible into issues which in some cases may be crucial to the democratic function of the Stortinge. My experience from this room extends only to this period, but I think I still have reason to claim that the work in the sample can be a good illustration of a Norwegian political culture that there is reason to fence around. Let me illustrate this by pointing out that there has been a great deal of agreement between Hagen and Moxnes in outstanding issues at this time – and for all of this matter. Now, of course, there's not necessarily any quality sign of what's being adopted. The day I leave Stortinget, some of what I'm going to remember best, will be the experience and the weight of some of them in the selection who have the longest parliamentary experience. There is reason to use a few big words about this practical and democratic continuity – often detached from the right-hand-left-axis – because I feel it is unique in an international context. This experience is part of the stage carpet that is now open to the discussion likely to have given rise to the most debate in the sample — the admission of the civil officer to documents necessary to carry out the tasks assigned to the Ombudsman by law. The selection unison agrees that, in principle, access to evidence should not be restricted, nor in the case of government notes or other basic documents in a case. The principle is that it is the controller and not the controller who must define what is necessary to have access to perform a mission. The committee has also seen to it that no restrictions have been made on the access of the Danish parliamentary ombudsman to similar documents. It must also be mentioned that a restricted right of access violates the Council of Europe's recognised principle of ombudsmen's institutions, as pointed out by Professor Eirik Holmøyvik in an article in the Evening Post today. On the part of the sample, attention has been paid to the fact that the disclosure of such documents should take place only at the most exceptionally and that the routine wording of the Ombudsman requesting ‘any information and any document in the matter’ is not covered by this principle. On the contrary, any request for the supply of such documents must be accompanied by a very good reason — and of course, disclosure is not about the right to make public. For my part, I believe that this frame-up of Section 20 of the Act ensures the right balance between the government's need for secret and confidential internal proceedings and the access of the civil representative to the necessary documents for the verification of the legal security of individuals. But I record that the selection's proposal at this point does not get a majority in the hall – which means, as in the case of a few other representatives, that we have not got our party groups into the reasoning. This could now be a major and important issue of conflict between legislative and executive power. I think that would be to lead it too far. The cancellation may in any case require any government document supplied under the Constitution § 75 f. On the other hand, such disclosure would obviously lead to a much wider dissemination of documents since they would obviously have to be dealt with in committee, or perhaps even in plenary. In addition, attention to the matter will, of course, be far greater than in the case of confidential transmission to the Civil Service Ombudsman. It must therefore be possible to assume that, on the part of the government, a reduced right of access to the Ombudsman could in many cases be directly counterproductive if the purpose is to keep the cards close to the chest. That being said, the question of the right of access of the Civil Service Ombudsman is only a minor part of the work of the sample. Probably what sets the greatest historical footprint of the extensive work that has been done is that we are now abolishing the Civil Ombudsman. Live them, President! It is beginning to be a long day, but I am pleased that the matter is being weighed over the first Tuesday next week. Then I am not in the room after the exchange list in the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5377	Today, when we are discussing the new Civil Ombudsman Act and the issue of whether the Civil Ombudsman should be entitled to access R-notes, it could almost be a technical thing. But it's not. The question we are discussing today is serious, because it is about the most recent chapter in the history of a government that will increasingly keep things secret in order to avoid getting criticism. They do it more often — and not only in practice, but also, as we see it today, in law. They do it to such an extent that there is reason to warn against the erosion of democracy. In 2018, the government received criticism from the Civil Ombudsman for its secrecy around the government's calendar. In an opinion, the Ombudsman stated that the Prime Minister's office does not have the right to keep Erna Solberg's calendar entries secret. They combined with three critical opinions on this issue in 2017 and 2018. The criticism led the government to notify proposals for changes to the disclosure law in order to keep calendar entries secret. In the same consultation note, the government also went in to tighten up the access of the Civil Ombudsman to so-called government notes. We were many who reacted that time, and the government got strong criticism from the press as well. For example, the Executive Journal pointed out the following in this regard: ‘The proposal is particularly intrusive because it will also exempt documents where r-notes are mentioned or quoted. It provides wide scope for circumvention of the Civil Ombudsman’s access requirements.’» After critical searchlights from the press and law experts, and after the matter was brought up in Stortinget, the government's bill was put in a drawer. Swiftly, the Harberg Committee is presenting its proposal for a new law to the Civil Ombudsman in which the access of the Civil Ombudsman to r-notes is ensured. A Joint Harberg Committee, from the Bears of Moxnes to Carl I. Hagen, has supported this, and a Joint Control and Constitutional Committee has supported the proposal. But then all of a sudden the Right Party and the members of the Advance Party in the Presidency make a complete reversal, and the government parties and the Advance Party follow up and will refuse the Civil Ombudsman’s transparency – not only in R-notes, but also in documents related to them. In other words, it is the same proposal that the government has made in its time. So it's okay to ask what happened in the Right in the meantime. Now it's probably secret if Erna Solberg has visited the group meeting in the Right, but it wouldn't surprise me if that's what happened. The Civil Ombudsman is an important institution in democracy. They have the task of securing the rights of the little man and woman in contact with the mighty state. So once again, we feel that the government will grant itself the right to refuse the Civil Ombudsman to have access to government documents in cases where someone thinks they have been subjected to injustice or abuse of power from the state apparatus. It's a step in the authoritarian direction, which fortunately we got with a collective Harberg selection to stop. In the long term, we thought that with it we had introduced a measure that weakens the possibilities of abuse of power and corruption, and that strengthens democracy and the little woman in the face of the state. But no, now not only does the Right show its undemocratic face, but also parties that say that they put people most and democracy much higher. Actually, I shouldn't be so surprised, because we've seen over years how these parties more than like to keep things secret to protect themselves. I think we might have to give up on the left. They go with this into the campaign without credibility in terms of openness and democracy. We are not so surprised at where the Progress Party has landed so far, but I would strongly encourage the Advance Party to turn around and stand with people most for openness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5399	I want to say it so that what's about to happen, I hope not actually happens. I hope we spend the days until the next Tuesday to really think about this matter. Of course, it's a very natural thing to say that it's very important that we stick to the constitutional principle, that the Storting should be clearly above the government. The Harberg committee, which has been commissioned to investigate the control function, which is one of the most important functions, I believe has done a very good job. As the President and Stortinget are aware, I have most of my parliamentary practices linked to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. While I was leading it, it was subjected to much criticism from many teams, among other things. That you went too far in many ways. The Harberg Committee confirms that the practice we had in the last period was the right practice and within the understanding of the Basic Law. I believe that there is reason to congratulate the representative Harberg on the work he has done, because it is consistent with the traditional Norwegian parliamentary understanding of the Constitution at this point. I also join the representative Grimstad said in that way. So we're going to experience this, as I'm told – which at least I didn't experience when I was the head of the control committee, that I got the presidency against me. Actually, I didn't. What is quite peculiar in this situation is that the prime trust-elect of the Storting, the majority of the presidency, is in a situation where they will restrict the powers of control of the Storting against government and government. That is what I call negative parliamentary history. That shouldn't happen – that really shouldn't happen! It's a completely unnecessary thing to do, given that you can have a legitimate relationship with the government and the government's work. I believe very strongly that it is really about making the Storting stand behind its control bodies. In this context, we are talking about the Civil Ombudsman, but later, in a few days' time, it is the Defence Ombudsman, who gets a clear restriction after the Ministry of Defence has intervened against the Stortinget – and gets the government parties with him. We see what we now have of secrecy. We're going to talk a little bit more about this later today, but also later, and that gets into this sequence. The Presidency and the majority of the Storting cannot support such a practice without starting to move on the edge of what is the Basic Law's understanding of the Grand Government's control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5417	I was so lucky to be the Vice-Chairman of the Harberg Committee. It's actually one of the most exciting things I've ever been to. There one really thought through what the role of the Greatness is, and what the foundation of our democracy really is. It's actually the power distribution principle. While we were working on this -- I think it was a year and a half, at least for a long time -- there was a lot going on in Europe. And we had Trump, who just challenged the principle of power distribution. In our European neighbouring countries, we saw land by country shifting the limit to this very principle of power distribution. It's quite fragile – incredibly fragile. We have the Civil Officer, who is the individual's watchman to the administration. We had a lot of discussions back and forth about the principles. We had the whole spectrum of both older and new politicians and more lawyers and social scientists present, but we were quite clear on – we discussed this for a long time – the principle that the controller and not the controlled person should define what is needed to clarify the matter, precisely in order to prevent injustice against the individual. It's a little special, President, that you, as the foremost representative of the people's representatives, choose to shift the exact balance of power that is as fragile as it is. Because it sends a signal about democracy that very many ask questions about. They get the news out of what you have of access and not access. Media has a new role to play. I know that we are two major governing parties, the Workers' Party and the Right. It might be extra important what we're doing. When they see representatives who can both sit in the government position and in the staging position, but who respect the roles regardless of whether they sit on one side of the power distribution, it gives confidence – trust that we understand our roles. It's incredibly important that we take care of that piece. Then I must also be allowed to say that I have a lot of sense for my neighbor on the Hordalands bench, from the left. The left has always challenged us in terms of transparency and legal certainty – also the very basic. And then they choose here to break what is completely fundamental in the distribution of power and choose to go with the other side. I don't quite understand. I see time and again that access to information is being restricted, while what we need is openness, and that you have the principles there with access to information if we are to prevent injustice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5432	First, thank you to the case rapporteur, whom I experienced doing a thorough work on this matter, both in what has been written, and in getting involved in the matter and the background for it. That's good. So I want to say thank you to the presidency for getting me to participate in and also direct this work. It was a very exciting work, as Grung said, to be in. We had good discussions over a long time and seen in context. It probably did something to all of us, even though someone could do a lot from before, and someone could do less already. I've been thinking over the last few weeks that these were discussions that were going to go to plenary. I think that would have been good for the Storting and for the Storting's work on control and for the Constituent. But we don't get that, that's the way it is. Then there's another thing that was very amazing in that sample work. It was that all the parties were represented, and we had professionals with us, and I felt that everyone put away party membership, and then we discussed the matter. Yes, one has something on the spinal cord that we're taking with us from the parties, but we discussed it on the basis of the mission to investigate the control function of the Storting. That's what we did. We tried to be faithful to the mission, and we talked to good solutions by being faithful to that mission. With regard to this law, two-three things were important. The most important thing was to put in place a new law that was more modern in its form of expression, and which was more accessible to those who would deal with the law. It was very important to us. So one might say that the point that is now being discussed, we had thorough discussions about in our selection -- very thorough discussions, both with the professionals who were involved and who did a great job, and across us. We thought what we were working to do was good. Then I have to remind you of two things when we're here now. It's that we were clear when we presented the proposition, that the representatives were free to deal with the treatment of the Storting, i.e. the treatment of the parties on Stortinget. We must respect that. That's why it's the way it is now. Then I have to be allowed to state that the members of the presidency are also party group members and relate to it. It is some of the democracy that we have internally on the Storing and that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5445	I can repeat the praise of Harberg's management of the selection, and I think it was a good review of the selection's work he presented to us now. What I took the floor for was that the representative called what is now being proposed as a new legal text, for clarification. I have to comment on that, because it's an innovation in the law. There is no clarification, there is something new in the law that the Storting will decide that the right of access of the Storting should be more limited than it has been before. That's why there's no clarification. But it's a confirmation of the government's constant secrecy, as we've experienced in the control committee, where we've repeatedly agreed to ask for documents that the government has denied transparency, and it's been across party boundaries, based on our control responsibilities. We have also been denied this in connection with the Statistical Central Bureau, the first reading of the Nav case, the second reading of the Nav case, etc., etc. – and not least now in many matters related to the Ministry of Defence, object protection, etc. It is the secret team that is behind our concern for the control function, as Ruth Grung and several others have described it well here – not least Grimstad. And that's when it gets dangerous -- not with r-notes, maybe, because there's a lot of exceptions, as Bente Stein Mathisen pointed out. We agree on that. Normally you don't have to ask for it. But there are documents related to these, and so we're going to add to the government to define which documents the agencies of the Great Britain are not going to see, and now to a control body that is just responsible for taking care of the individual man against the power of the state. That's when it gets serious, and it's when I think it's getting particularly serious that it's the Presidency of the Grand Duchy, which at least in terms of decisions, is the first in this process of treatment in the Grand Duchy that takes the initiative to limit the transparency of the Supervisory Board of the Grand Duchy. It is worrying for the Civilian Ombudsman, but of course it is also worrying for the other control functions, including the control of government by the Control and Constitutional Committee in the tasks we have to do. So the government is now getting a stamp of approval to keep secret documents that have always been a violation of the secrecy, and that is serious in the matter. Because this is a fundamental misunderstanding – and I believe that both the majority and the minority agree: both in the letters we received to the Harberg Committee from the government, and in the hearing we received on this matter from the government, it has been a recurring misunderstanding from the government that sending documents to the Stortinget is the same as publishing. So it's not. The Civil Service Officer does not have the right to publish documents they are given access to, but they can use them in their work for the little man in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5456	It may sound a bit pompous, but I will repeat my appeal to the Stortinget to think about it until Tuesday. Here it will be possible to find a solution so this accident does not happen. For this I am characterised as an accident on a parliamentary basis in principle. The R-notes are at the top of that discussion. Whether it is to say that there is full agreement that the r-notes are government documents. But here the government has taken the opportunity to go a step further and may then agree to add documents related to these. The question is then: is it in this case the Civil Service Officer or is it the government apparatus that has the right to define what documents are related to them? What is in the pot in this case, that is, in the case of the Civil Ombudsman, is about the legal certainty of those who have promoted a case for the Ombudsman. I remind you that the Ombudsman's function is constitutional, and therefore it was as correct and correct as the Harberg Committee did, namely to promote the text that they originally did, but had the comment that made this perfectly correct delineation in the so-called preprocessors. That's where the Stortinget was going to sit. Then I'm a little uncertain about what the president really thinks, because she doesn't participate in the debate, and no one from the majority of the presidency is up and defending himself. But it's just saying that what has happened in this case is infecting other issues that follow in the extension of the Harberg Committee's suspension. It infects the Defence Ombudsman, who comes as a matter of his own at a later stage, but where, on the initiative of the Ministry of Defence, the parties to the Government restrict the Ombudsman’s ability to obtain documents outside the classification «BORDENSET». Is this good? No, this is not good. This is profoundly unfortunate, because it's about the principle in the constitution relating to what should be the right of the Supervisory Boards of the Stortinget, which we have appointed, and which we have given a law to do their job. That's why the effect of the presidency here is not what Harberg says. It acts as a signal mechanism towards the other processes in the other committees, and it infects and undermines the whole range of settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5465	The representative Dag Terje Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5470	I will finally allow myself to do something I have never done before. This is what Kolberg was in for, and with the background of the principle of this matter. So it's a parliamentary and constitutional historical moment if the Biggest decides to limit the control of the Biggest against the government. That is why I would like to recommend, in particular, the Left and Christian People's Party, that we use the time until Tuesday to think about whether we really want – based on those parties, and in particular on the Left's tradition of historical and parliamentary competence and prudence – to help them get on the wrong side of the story in the question of the distribution of power between government and greatness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5475	I'm supposed to be honest that the right of access or not for the Civil Service in government notes has not been a simple matter for the Left to conclude in. However, I believe that today's debate had insisted that we were a little more cautious in the choice of adjectives and adverbs. For example, when the representative Bjørke wonders whether the government is blinding, it is almost as tempting to put the question back to the opposition party if they had used equally strong words in this debate if they had been in government today. I'm not going to do that, because from the spinal cord, it's easy to agree with the Harberg selection that it's the controller, not the controller, who defines what one wants to see, no matter what one asks for transparency. Although everything in me intuitively says that government notes should also apply, in this case it is also a ‘but’ or two that complicate it. When you hear the arguments for why government notes should have an exception to the rule, the answer is unfortunately not as simple. All governments need to run case management and assessments more informally before a case becomes a formal matter for the King of State Council. If it is not possible to do so in writing, as today, it is a danger. I do not say that it happens, but there is a danger that it will then go over to oral handling. In that case, we have achieved nothing but apparent transparency, not real transparency. So to what has emerged in the debate: the civilian population has, to this day, scarcely needed access to government notes. At best, the need is completely minimal. So why change today's practice, where government notes alone are government's preliminary notes, call it high-thinking notes, and take the chance that one goes from written to oral assessments. Today, despite all these notes are available for history after x number of years – I think it's 20. Then, of course, I listen when the representative, Kolberg, comes with such a clear, sincere call to spend time until Tuesday well. That's what we're going to do, and I hope it's the other way around as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5486	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5491	That's to what's quite timely to ask, as the representative Breivik now asked, would the opposition have been equally loud and just as principled if we had been in the government position? I just have to say, yes, I did. I have taken this view all along, even when I was in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. I'm not embarrassed to say, even though it's from the pulpit of the Great Britain, that we had a lot of fights with our own. But it was absolutely necessary to stand on the constitutional principle on which this matter is concerned. I hope again on this basis that it is possible to come up with a solution during the week we now have in front of us, so we keep – you could say – the nerves of the constitutional practice, which is constitutional, and which the Harberg committee managed in such a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5496	As rapporteur of the case, it has been very interesting to follow this debate and not least have been able to get involved in the thorough work done by the Harberg Committee. There are many interesting articles that have come. I don't get to comment on everything, but I think it's important to underline it, among other things. The representative of Kolberg has pointed out that this sends a signal, and that this is a fundamental issue concerning the entire control function of the Storting. I can say that we in the Control Committee also look at the other parts of the Harberg Committee's report, which is now being discussed in other committees. Today, we chose the case rapporteur for this with the Defence Ombudsman. I will join very closely with what is being said about the principle serious at what the Storting is about to do on Tuesday. Then I also want to add, which I did not say so much about in my case rapporteur's introduction at the beginning, that the Ombudsman in Norway is a model for the world. I also think that the hall should think a little bit about today, and especially on Tuesday to the week. There is something we have been at the front, which other countries look to Norway for. Several similar ombudsmen, as it is called in English, have arrived after inspiration from Norway. It is in these basic questions that we have international standards to deal with, and I outlined briefly the Venezia principles in my article. These principles concern, inter alia: Parliamentary control. The size must be aware of the fact that, with this model of our conduct, we are now in the process of subjugating ourselves to the international standards. I want to say that it gives this a completely separate dimension, which is pretty talkative of what we're doing. That is why I would also like to join in the heartfelt call to the whole Storting to think carefully over and through the vote to Tuesday. I would also like to say that to the extent that it is possible to look at solutions, at least I am very interested in it as the case-law rapporteur. Because here we really should avoid the unfortunate accident that the Storting restricts its own control function towards the government. We should avoid such a historical accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5511	I heard someone who went to the pulpit today and said that when you start saying you're not going to go out the debate, that's exactly what you're doing. That is quite right when I now took the floor. I understand the opposition's commitment. You see, I get it, because I've been sitting in the sample and working on it. But we also need to respect that there has been a treatment on Stortinget. But the reason I took the floor is that we have to be careful now so that we do not take down the amazing things that we have in the law that we are now invited to adopt, regardless of the Appendix in Section 4 or not. The rapporteur was now afraid that our role model, which had been put in place by the Civil Ombudsman, as it was then called, as well as rakes completely because of this. No, we've got an upgraded law that really takes care of our citizens. We must not lose that in this debate. Yes, there's a discussion about one point, but we've got a good law, which gives our citizens the opportunity to get their things up, and that's a good basis for the Civil Protection Officer to work on it, even though there's a debate on this one point. Let's talk about the Civil Ombudsman and the Civil Ombudsman Act, and then we can disagree on one point.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5523	It was this by extending the debate and the rapporteur's unrestricted ability to do just that. But I just want to be clear here, because Svein Harberg's posts now on the improvements made in the law, the whole committee joins unanimously. It'll probably also the Storting will do on Tuesday, and that's absolutely reason to draw it out. Harberg was previously congratulated, and I can also congratulate the Civil Ombudsman on a good law – for all things. But I feel that the representative Harberg referred to my post a little unpresidiously, because the Norwegian Civil Ombudsman’s model of conduct does not come up with this – I did not say that. But it is clear that in a time – and I think this is what Ruth Grung presented – as there is pressure on just these things, it has something to say what the very origin of this model is doing in such an important fundamental question. There has also been good talk about the difference between r-notes and other documents related to government documents. It's also an important background for my post and my clear warning, because it's not about ‘only’, it's not about a small, limited thing. No, it's also about other documents, and that the government basically gets the opportunity to define it. So I am told that Storting should think about and look at what is possible to do, until Tuesday. I also believe that in the time we live in, where these things are under pressure, it has a lot to say what Norway chooses to do. That's the right perspective, I think, that the Storting should think about on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5532	It was the representative Harberg who got me to take the floor. This is a good law, and it's very good here, but one must not trivialize such a serious matter as this because the rest is good. That's what I think is so wrong. The R-note is something special, and it's just because it's so important, what the Harberg selection in common has been some about. Because that delimits it very clearly. But at the same time, it is that the Civilomebode does not ask for r-notes if the government does not start treating individual items as r-notes. And then it could be those who do it wrong when they treat it. My main point is that it expands so fast. We've had challenges in the control committee. Among other things, the National Auditor has had problems getting things public. I think it's been a bit of an intervention in the last few years. I'm fresh in that committee, but I actually feel that this challenge has been a bit of an initiative. Then doing such a law-enforcement thing really bothers me. Hence, it is unlikely that it is important if you had managed to avoid this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5541	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5558	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur and 3 minutes to other party groups and members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5565	Democracy is based on the principle of the distribution of power. The big thing is the legislative, the lying and controlling power, the government is the executive power. The distribution of power results in an imbalance between the government's knowledge and that of the government. For this reason, Stortinget has its own body which is the instrument for the exercise of parliamentary control by the Stortinget. These bodies are the Riksrevisionen, the Civilombodsmann, the EOS Committee, the Norwegian Human Rights Institute and the Ombudsman of the Defence. The Harberg Committee deals with these bodies in Documents 21 for 2020-2021. In this setting, the Control and Constitution Committee supports the indication from the selection that the big bodies should be independent. The size of their external bodies shall be effectively independent of and shall have a limit on the management they control. Both the selection and the committee stress that the external bodies are an instrument for the exercise of parliamentary control by the Storting. It means that it is a democratic guarantee to secure the position of the elected government against the government and the government, and to ensure effective and responsible administration. Storing bodies should not have images to instruct the administration, but should be able to require management to provide access to the necessary information. This setting discusses the control of how the government exercises the legislative competence delegated by Stortinget. The Ministry is responsible for ensuring that the regulations are in line with the requirements of the Grand Duchy. It must be overseen by the Ministry, which can be controlled by the Civilombudsman and the Riksrevision. The size of its external bodies determines the content, extent and format of the Storing's reporting. Reports must be relevant to Storing's work. They must include: assess whether the objective underpinning the decision on enlargement has been achieved. Both the selection and the committee believe that the Presidency of the Storting must be responsible for reviewing changes in the laws that can or should have consequences for the External Body of the Storting. There are now separate legal processes for the individual bodies. In the setting, the Committee sets out some provisions for these legal acts. The Committee supports the assessment of the selection that, in principle, it should be a board of directors or a collegial body which is at the top of all the bodies responsible. The exception is the Civilbodsman, who should still have a director's model. The collegiate bodies should be named by the Stortinge in plenary, in the same way as the Civilo Ombudsman. The collegial bodies shall assign administrative rents to themselves for a term of six years. The year may be extended once. This process paves the way for the basic role of the agencies in the democratic system, and they must take care of the Stortinget when we deal with the mandate of these bodies and continue to work. It would have been more natural for us to take this matter before the previous case, which was about the Civilbodsman, but it is at least important that we get this in place. Just that we're getting a system now where it's like who's responsible for assigning daily leadership and everything, I think I'll make this work in a better way. Then I am thinking in particular of NIM – that one who has a board that is also responsible for the director.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5584	It might have been natural that Harberg had spoken before me, but it's going to be like that. I asked for the word in this case, which is a general review of Storting's confirmation of the entire selection setting. In the previous case, I congratulated Harberg on this work and was behind the whole setting as it stands. In this way, the principle is said from my side. But I want to take the opportunity to share some experience related to this with Stortinget. It is that regardless of the government colour, it is an inherent desire to keep the Size away from information in many contexts. It's been a challenge for all the years I've been in the control committee, and I'm going to take the opportunity to say a warning on that point – also for the future. Because we have experienced a lot of crossroads, and there are many times and many cases where the department has been behind, for example. the desire of State companies not to provide the Stortinget with relevant documents to enable the Stortinget to be informed whether the Ministry fulfils its obligations under the Stortinget Decision. I'm going to give an example to clarify this, and I'm not challenging the oil and energy minister on this now, at all, because we've talked about this before, I can trust the Stortinget. It's that the then Statoil, the present Equinor, doesn't provide us with proper information on the Angola case. They're not coming. And the department has stood behind and said it's okay. It's not okay. It's very clear. Because at this point, the Stortinget has clear rules on how the ministry will manage its ownership, but we're not going to get the bottom of it, because we're not getting the documentation we need. And it goes its way. This is not good, and therefore it is so good that we now have the Harberg Committee in our backs, and that a unanimous magnification, as the representative Bjørke has now explained, says it should be. But then, regardless of the government colour, we have to make sure that the administration does not use the ability to protect itself rather than provide correct information to the Size.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5595	This part of the Harberg Committee's setting is not going to be a big debate, and that's really very good. But I want to make it clear, as Kolberg was now really involved, that here we decide important things about how this is going to be. This was also part of the thorough work we had to do, where we looked at how it is constitutionally right to appoint, and who should be responsible, and we've got that cleared up. There were several of these external bodies that were composed in such a way that the Stortinge appointed the board, but that the Stortinge also appointed the director – and then we agreed on the board that things were not as they were supposed to be. We can't have it like that. We appoint the board, and they're the ones on our behalf to make sure that this goes right, and that's who we're going to address if there's something that doesn't go right. And then they have to organize their people the way they need to carry out that mission. It was a little important for me to make it clear that we cleaned it up quite well, while at the same time laying down all the principles that lie at the bottom of Storting's control and control functions. I'm glad that the sample was assembled, that the committee was reassembled, and that the Storting is reassembled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5604	I didn't intend to take the floor, because in this case there is a full, broad consensus on the thorough basis of the Harberg Committee, but I might just stress what was said, both by Kolberg and by Harberg, about the importance of this for Storting's future control function. That's why we were so involved in the previous case, because it broke with the principles that we all here are nodding to. That's one thing. Another thing is what Harberg says about appointment, and I fully agree with that, but I just want to underline one more point that we have been very much in agreement about: for some of our functions, and that is the defence officer, the national auditor and the civil officer, the fact is that the head of the institution has his mandate from the Stortinget and not as an employee of a government, but that the defence officer, when he is to take care of Norwegian soldiers, veterans and others, does it on behalf of the Stortinget, that we know that the governor is the man of the Stortinget and not some – I kept saying – director. I would also like to stress that, and I do so because at the beginning of this period of this control committee we were on a joint journey in the Nordic region. We visited our colleagues in similar parliaments and looked at two control functions in particular: it was the National Audit Office, and then it was the EOS Committee, which has a very special history in Norway, and it is organised differently in the Nordic countries. But the very fact that we have elected representatives of the people, not holding big business representatives, but that we have the democratic perspective on the appointment of those functions, we were politically agreed in the Committee on Control and Constitution, that the differences were actually a confirmation that the model we had in Norway was very good, because our way of organizing it gives the authority it should have to be an organ on behalf of the Stortinget. I just want to underline that element as well, which we have been very much in agreement about in the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5613	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5630	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes to the rapporteur and 3 minutes to other party groups and members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5637	On 12 May last year, the Stortinge dealt with a proposal for the establishment of a Nav Ombudsman, and the Stortinge decided on the establishment of such an agent. The Presidency was asked to change the mandate of the selection that examined the control functions of the Stortinge – the Harberg Committee, which we have talked a lot about here tonight – so that the selection would also come up with proposals for setting up a Nav Ombudsman, in line with the comments from the majority of the Innst population. 254 S for 2019-2020. The Harberg Committee issued its report on 1 February this year. The Harberg Committee understood the addition of the mandate in this way: assess whether a specific function as a Nav Ombudsman should be assigned to the Civilian Ombudsman; independent of the answer to the first question on how the function as a Nav Ombudsman can be set up as part of the activities of the Civil Ombudsman The majority of the sizes are in the Innst. 254 S for 2019-2020 until the Nav Ombudsman is implemented in the framework of the current basic principles of the Civil Ombudsman’s activities. In the function of Nav ombudsman, the ombudsman shall exercise objective and subsequent control. The Harberg Committee does not recommend the establishment of the Nav Ombudsman in this way, as part of the activities of the Civilian Ombudsman, and it is mainly justified that the Civilian Ombudsman should carry out objective and subsequent monitoring of Nav. If the Civilian Ombudsman is given an advisory role in addition to the controlling role of the Ombudsman today, these roles could conflict and confidence in the control function will be eroded. The Harberg Committee did not decide where the Nav Ombudsman should be established, as this was not part of the mandate of the panel. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees with the evaluations of the Harberg Committee and proposes that the Nav Ombudsman not be added to the Civil Ombudsman, but be established as a separate independent representative, and that it be assessed whether the Ombudsman can be co-located with another representative, in the interests of professional and administrative resources. The Committee proposes: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own independent Nav Ombudsman as soon as possible and to clear up a possible co-location with one of the other agents in order to benefit from common professional and administrative resources.’ The Committee's position has been the opinion of both the Presidency and the Labour and Social Committee, and there have been no comments on the proposal and on the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5662	When Stortinget deals with the first issue from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the practice of EU Social Security Regulation 883/2004 Article 21 of March 2020, the Centre Party stresses this: In the light of the information that has emerged, a debate on how Nav works in order to follow up the rights and obligations of its users as a foundation in the welfare state will become important. This has been more and more relevant since the cases developed. We've seen a hub that communicates so that people don't understand, and that at the same time has a basic lack in their own case management. The Supervisory Committee received a report from the National Audit Office on the fact that the cases were not properly dealt with by the Nav decision-making bodies. This gives rise to more complaints than is necessary both in the Nav and the Social Security Court. The case handling time is too long by your Nav's first step not handling the cases well enough. This threatens legal certainty in the welfare country. That means we need a Nav bypass. We need a Nav orbit of your Nav is in a system crisis. The Nav environment shall not modify or replace statutory legal security arrangements, but be a trustee for those to whom our welfare arrangements are aligned. If someone feels that they are not getting the information and assistance they think is right or necessary, the Nav environment should be able to take the matter up. The Nav environment should communicate themes and problems experienced by users to the Nav administrators. This could influence Nav's mandate to take care of the rights and obligations of the welfare state, as people expect, and ensure legal certainty for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5671	I just had to take the floor to say that I am very pleased that the Harberg Committee has gone in to set up a Nav Ombudsman, and that the Committee now unanimously promotes proposals to ask the government to set up its own independent Nav Ombudsman. The case-rapporteur, Stein Mathisen, gave a good account of the thorough discussion that the sample made of why there must be an ombudsman function outside the Civil Service Ombudsman. I agree with that justification. This is something that many have spoken about for a long time, and we clearly see the need to increase the legal certainty of Nav's users. The complaints in Nav today are not good enough. The Storting has just received a report from the National Audit Office on the excessive queues in the proceedings there, and the threshold for bringing cases before the Social Security Court, but in particular to the courts, is high. Before that, it was that those who could not work, or for other reasons needed help to obtain income, had to show themselves worth getting help from the authority, from the poor board, which often consisted of local high men and performance. The poor were completely in their arbitrary power. That arbitraryness would put an end to the universal arrangements and rights. Now I'm going to do something I do more often than many of my colleagues know: quote former Prime Minister Einar Gerhardsen. He said this in a way that I don't think anyone can really say better: ‘The birth certificate and no certificate of merit shall determine whether the old are to have social security or not, and social security benefits shall not be poor assistance, but any citizen shall be entitled to have no accounting for a civil servant.’ That's what I think is very beautiful. Nevertheless, some of Nav's users experience system errors and errors. We've even seen abuse of power and punishment. And someone has enough experience of having to account for a civil servant today. It shouldn't be like that. With the social security scandal fresh in memory, it is quite obvious that we need to do more to ensure the legal certainty of Nav users. That's why the Stortinget's decision is on Tuesday, so long ago. It is a great victory for all those who have experienced injustice in the Nav system, that we get an agent to provide good information and guidance in the system and ensure that users' experiences lead to a positive change in Nav. It's very joyful.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5687	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5704	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5711	Thank you, President and former spokesman. Thanks also to the Committee on Future Cooperation on this matter. The Control and Constitutional Committee decided to open proceedings relating to the opening of oil pipelines in the Barents Sea south-east on the basis of information known in the media in connection with the proceedings in the Supreme Court on the 23rd concession round and Grundlova § 112. The Committee's background was a desire to examine whether the Stortinget received all relevant information when the Stortinget decided to open oil exploration in the Barents Sea south-east. We carried out the hearing on 15 February 2021. The goal of the hearing was to clarify whether the Storting had all the relevant information when it was opened for oil activity in the Barents Sea south-east in 2013, or whether anything was held back. The hearing was also aimed at identifying the practice in such matters in the department and how the cooperation between the directorate and the department has been and is. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to stress that the matter does not concern the extent to which it was right or wrong that a decided opening of the Barents Sea southwards for oil exploration. In the course of handling the case both through the hearing and through written recordings, there has been no information that would indicate that information beyond what was submitted to the Stortinget would have changed the outcome of the decision taken by the Stortinget. Responsible State Council in 2013, Ola Borten Moe, was clear that the Stortinget received all relevant information in advance of the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. He was not familiar with the no-value equation that showed that the Barents Sea south-east could be a loss project, but stressed that the calculation did not add information that would change the outcome of the treatment of the case. That is a conclusion reached by the Committee. The former resource director of the Oil Directorate, Rolf Wiborg, made it clear that the Stortinget should receive more detailed information when deciding. In this case, however, he was aware that more information would not have changed the conclusion, because the arguments for opening were so clear. The Committee has spent a little time on whether the valuation should be part of the impact assessment. The value assessment was clear shortly before the impact assessment for opening the Barents Sea south-east was printed and sent on a ring, and was not intended as part of the impact assessment. Although the hearing did not provide a clear answer to why the ministry informed the directorate that the new assessments should not be included in the public resource report or be sent to the Stortinget, the committee does not directly criticise that assessment, but indicates that it is not unusual practice for the Stortinget to receive information in some cases where relevant. For my own part, I can shoot at the fact that it can often be wise in any case to avoid unnecessary questions and use of resources in retrospect. One important reason for this being a matter for the Committee was the transparency of the Højsterett-saka in the e-mail dialogue between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Oil Directorate, a dialogue which gave good reason to ask questions about whether the department exceeded professional judgements. However, in the light of the information provided to the Committee, it is difficult to conclude that this has been normal. It also suggests that internal dialogue and management between the Directorate and the Department have not been conducted in the same way since then. During the work on this matter, the Committee has registered several persons who claim that it may be problematic that the ownership of the Equinor State belongs today to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, at the same time as the Ministry is also responsible for regulating the oil and energy industry, selecting which oil company is to be drilled in different fields and who is to be the operator. This may be due to, or at least to, Grobotn's undue suspicion of a role conflict. The Committee believes that it is natural for the government to consider whether all listed companies in the State are owned by it to be placed under the ownership department of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5743	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur for a thorough treatment of what became a long process and not a very long setting. But after the vote became known, what I have in particular been asked about is our unanimous statement that the Committee believes ‘it is natural for the government to consider whether the ownership management of all listed companies should be placed under the ownership department of the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, both in order to avoid potential role conflicts and to bring together ownership where this is the greatest’. Then perhaps someone might wonder why this comes in connection with this matter, because we will later today, among other things. treat the control of companies. I can say that there's no other attitude to the same question as when we deal with corporate control, but there's an overall committee here that points to the dilemma that's there. Maybe some reason why it's coming right here is that there are two reasons why we think it should be assessed by the government at all times, I kept saying, whether it's the same or a new one after the fall election, because one of the issues is a possible role conflict. The second main theme is a number of issues we have had in Stortinget – we will come back to that – where there have been many examples of poor ownership by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In particular, there is a role conflict that causes that wording to come into this setting. For what was particularly important in dealing with this case – which did not intend to have a new political assessment of whether it was right to make the openings that were made, but whether the procedure had been correct – was that we received, perhaps particularly through the proceedings in the judicial system, transparency in the communication between the directorate and the ministry, which in many ways was a little daunting. It could at least give the impression that some of the people who put in that communication line, perhaps especially on the directorate's page, felt that there could be over-control from the department. It was about feeling bad in the stomach and the kind of things that came out in e-mail correspondence and SMS correspondence. Then it is that when we were going to conduct a hearing on this topic, many of those who had something to contribute and had contributed information in the judicial system were invited to our hearing, and many of them refused to come. To put it this way: I don't know what was meant to say no to come, but it didn't at least weaken the suspicion that there is a cameraderic culture in a cluster up against the Oil and Energy Department, which there is reason to ask questions about. That's one part of the reason why we think it should now be seriously assessed whether the professional Ministry of Ownership should also own the OED, and that's the background for it coming in this setting. Someone would then immediately say that there are problems related to Equinor's management of the shares, etc., and we are fully aware of that. These include: The ESA authorisation to enter into such a solution requires investigation and awareness. That is why we do not give a final conclusion, but we point to the fact that both the dual role and the link to other issues we are going to deal with today, about a historically poor ownership of Equinor, makes a joint committee ask that this be assessed, as other listed companies, be managed by the department that has it as its task.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5756	Thank you to the rapporteur for a thorough review and thorough work, and thank you to the Cooperation Committee. Matters raised by the Committee on its own initiative are demanding. It is then up to the Committee itself to provide a basis for action. In principle, there may be a specific enquiry or information that starts with the case, but it is challenging for the Committee, through questions to the government and in consultation, to ask the questions which give an overall picture. It has been the case in this case as well. The case of the Ministry of Oil and Energy dealing with the opening of the Barents Sea south-east had as its starting point that it was important for the Committee to find out whether the information obligation of the Stortinge was broken and whether the information not provided to the Stortinge would have given the matter another outcome. The Committee has therefore tried to find the basis for the assessment of a potential negative expected profitability not to be submitted to the Stortinget prior to the decision. The right is behind the majority's conclusion that the information obligation will not be broken, and that there is nothing to suggest that the case would have another outcome. It is important to remember that this is not a matter of whether it was right or wrong that the Storting decided to open the Barents Sea south-east for oil exploration, just as the committee chairman just said. The Oil Directorate is primarily the department's professional adviser, and the professional issues dealt with by the Directorate are complex and complex. Uncertainty is often linked to responses, and there are often several solutions that can be acceptable. Before opening up an area to petroleum activity, there is little knowledge of the geology and the uncertainty is high, but the exploration activity can reveal great values, as confirmed by the history of Norwegian oil activity over more than 50 years. Not opening and not using the possibility to clarify which values exist also has a cost. The main question for the Committee, whether the Stortinget received all relevant information in the case, has been clarified, but there was also another question that marked the Committee's work on the matter. The climate action objective provided transparency in some internal correspondence. There was a basis for questions on how the Ministry communicated internally both with the Council of State and the Directorate, on all relevant information to the Council of State. However, I notice that both the former State Council Ola Borten Moe and the current Council of State, Tina Bru, at the hearing spoke warmly about his office and described it as very competent and loyal. Away Moe also pointed out that internal disagreement is not unusual, and that this can sometimes lead to conflict, but there is no basis to conclude that something like this should have affected the handling of this case. I also record that the Bru Government Council has clearly concluded that good internal dialogue and cooperation procedures are in place between the Directorate and the Department now. So to what Dag Terje Andersen said, to consider a Ministry of Ownership: there is a debate that appears at regular intervals, both here in this hall and – I can say – in his own party. That's why we think it's neat to ask the government to evaluate it and get a proper investigation of it, so we fully support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5771	It is the task of the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee to ensure that the Government's proposals for the Grand Duchy are in line with the disclosure obligation, and that is the basis for taking this matter into account. For the purposes of making important decisions, all relevant professional arguments shall be included in the government’s proposals. The government shall provide both arguments in favour of and arguments in favour of its own vision. Only this way the Storting can make good choices. When the Barents Sea of the South was opened for oil business, there was a note in the Oil Directorate showing that the opening could cause financial losses. The note contents could not be retrieved in the documents sent by the department to Stortinget with suggestions to open the Barents Sea in the south-east. That's the reason for the hearing. In the hearing, it was found that the note was part of a professional discussion in the Oil Directorate. The discussion focused on how to calculate the loss and gain before proposing to Stortinget to open oil fields. The data base was limited and insecure in the different calculations. At the same time, it was not to open the field to tell the relationship to clarify what values were in the Barents Sea south-east. The note was also not clear when submitted to Stortinget. Both those who were for and those who were against an opening of the Barents Sea south-east, thought in their ears that the Storting would not have taken another decision as to whether the note had been known. The top was greater than the uncertainty of the calculations. Therefore, there is not much criticism from the Committee. But we're going to have to take care of the information obligation. Therefore, this was examined. A central theme in the hearing was whether the Ministry of Oil had influenced its professional assessments before presenting the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. The Oil Directorate is a trade directorate responsible for communicating facts and knowledge about the petroleum industry to society. The Directorate's room to make independent professional assessments is important, so that good arguments for and against come up. It was not enough in the hearing if it is common for the Department to ask the Directorate of Oil to modify the professional documents and their contents. In handling these matters, the Control Committee has sent a clear message to the Ministry that the Directorate should not prejudge its own professional assessments. The directorate's professional freedom must be real about equally good arguments and arguments against should arrive at the Stortinget. Such must be the case when such decisions are to be taken in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5784	‘Beware that the Barents Sea is not spoken south-east.’ The Ministry wants a valuation that ‘clearly indicates that we should open’. These are quotations from some of the e-mails that Højesterett gained insight into the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2013, e-mails that former oil director Bente Uland in the hearing with the Control Committee called an unusual way of conducting a dialogue between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Trade Directorate. The size was told, through Meld. St. 36 for 2012–2013, that ‘petroleum activity in the Barents Sea south-east can generate significant values for society and could contribute to the creation of value added and employment at national, regional and local level’. Furthermore, it was noted that petroleum activities in the area can produce significantly profitable production, with an estimated net worth of 280 billion, respectively. kr in the high scenario and 50 brd. kr i low. Later, the then state councillor Borten Moe said in our hearing that the best thing might have been if these estimates were not included at all, but they were. What was not included, on the other hand, was that the concept of net asset value did not mean net present value. No, the numbers weren't converted to present value, and that wasn't disclosed either. On the contrary, there was a present-value calculation, which the Oil Directorate had made, but it did not want the ministry to be presented. The calculation of the Oil Directorate gives a really different picture from that of the Stortinget. It says that the fields in the Barents Sea south-east have a 25 pst. a chance of net negative value with the oil and gas prices at that time. Any profit was expected to be about 50 B.C.E. kr, with significant uncertainty both ways – i.e. not 50 billion. kr for low and 280 brd. kr in the high scenario, but 50 billion. kr, significant uncertainty and 25 pst. chance of loss. If it had led to a different decision if Stortinget got this information, I believe that it is both very difficult and not meaningful to say something certain about afterwards, but we can record that former government councils and representatives from that time said that this had been important arguments in the discussion that went on, because we know that there was a debate on this matter. What we can determine today – as SV does in the setting – is that the present value calculation that actually existed was relevant information for Stortinget, which Stortinget should have received. That this was not shared with Stortinget, but that the Stortinget instead got a significantly more optimistic estimate, SV believes it is misleading, it is critical, and it is the then state council Ola Borten Moe's responsibility. So to the second question that has been an important topic in this matter. When we see e-mails asking people in the department for valuations that clearly indicate a particular result, and asking that the Barents Sea south-east not be talked down from the underlying trade directorate, we have asked ourselves if it is an unfortunate culture that the Storting should point out. The Control Committee has not received all the answers we sought through this matter on that question, but we have heard Rolf Wiborg, formerly employed in the Oil Directorate, his clear characteristic of what he calls unculture in the bureaucracy. He believes that Stortinget on several occasions should have received much more supplementary information when making decisions. We have heard former State Council Åslaug Haga describe the close ties and importance of good role awareness in this field, and we have seen what appears to be an active editing of the knowledge of the e-mails from the Supreme Court in this matter. That is why I would like to end by thanking the rapporteur for a very good work on this matter. I believe it is in place and important that the Storting also investigates this type of thing and clearly points to the Council of State's responsibility for what is happening in the government. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously problematises these issues and emphasises the importance of good role, cleanness and openness in a small country with small trade unions, and that we are not least asking the government to assess this with regard to the location of the ownership management of Equinor. So then I hope we can get an even better management of these important resources in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5801	Initially, I must remind you that the starting point for this hearing is a matter promoted by a former State Council in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and also a matter promoted by a Council of State in a government other than today's. Of course, I was also involved in the hearing of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. Therefore, I have little opportunity to clarify all the specific issues that the Committee has been considering, but these issues were also addressed to the Committee by the then State Council, Ola Borten Moe, during the hearing held in February. According to the Petroleum Act, the Ministry of Oil and Energy is responsible for implementing the opening processes and determines the procedure to be followed in each case. Openings of areas are also submitted to Stortinget. It is only after opening that petroleum activities may be started and extraction permits granted. An opening process is comprehensive, thorough, time consuming and inclusive. The process includes an investigation of the economic and environmental consequences of any opening. This study also draws on the best professional environments we have. Both the programme and the impact assessment itself are subject to public consultation. Opening sea areas is not often happening on a Norwegian base. Before the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2013, was the last time an area was reopened in 1994. According to the Act, the Ministry of Oil and Energy determines the procedure to be followed in the individual case. Based on the completed opening process, Stortinget closed in 2013 to the opening of the Barents Sea south-east and provided a land-based framework for the implementation of the 23rd concession round. In its position on the matter in 2013, the majority of the Committee wrote that they were: ‘of the opinion that the ministry has carried out a thorough and legal handling of the opening process’. The implementation of the opening process by the Ministry of Oil and Energy has also been dealt with in the judicial system in recent years. In 2016, the State of the Ministry was sued for a breach of the Constitution in connection with the granting of extraction permits under the 23rd concession round. The state was also charged with procedural errors, including the opening of the Barents Sea south-east in 2013. The State won the case at all points in all three courts, including the Court of Justice in plenary. I believe that the discussions on the design of the petroleum policy belong in the political arena, i.e. here in the Chamber and not in the legal system. I am therefore very pleased that the Royal Court in plenary concluded that the King's grant of extraction permits in the 23rd concession round was not invalid under the Constitution. Petroleum management has played a crucial role in the success of Norwegian petroleum policy. That's the one that makes us have over 11,000 billion. kr on book, that more than 200000 people across the country work related to the industry and that the safety level is high and the emissions low. The same administration also carried out the opening process for the Barents Sea south-east. The judicial system, including the Court of First Instance in plenary, has established that there was no procedural error in the process, and I am pleased about that. I am pleased that the Committee proposes that this matter now be closed permanently, but then we will certainly continue to have debates on both oil policy and its management in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5821	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5826	I have a pretty simple question. I have now said yes on several occasions last week to set up Day 18 and discuss the ownership of Equinor and have been told that the Council of State will not stop, so I have to ask here. When there is now a unanimous remark from a committee that ownership should be assessed and it is argued why it is natural that the ownership is also managed by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, but with the issues we are familiar with, which I referred to from the Chair of the Great Britain in the future, I will ask the Council of State: will the Council of State now ensure that the Storting will get back to treatment as soon as possible an assessment of the future ownership of Equinor, and whether it is natural for it to be moved to the Ministry of Food and Fisheries? So I do not expect the Council of State to now answer yes to move, but yes to come back with a thorough review and investigation from the government to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5833	Of course, you can always have a discussion on the principle of which department ownership is to be managed. I agree that under this government there is ownership in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I believe it is managed in a good and professional way in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and it is not my table to think that it should be moved elsewhere. But what I want to say is that, as I said, you can have that basic discussion, I understand that the Storting wants to have, and it's all free to believe what they want. But what I'm still reacting to is in a way the reasoning that leads the representative where this is important. Because in his speech he began to talk about the fact that there were employees in the Oil Directorate who would not attend the hearing, i.e. an invitation to a voluntary hearing. They said no to that. Then the representative talked about unlucky role-playing, and at least it didn't weaken the suspicion, and then it leads the representative to move the ownership of Equinor out of the Oil and Energy Department. I don't see that clutch.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5841	To say what it is: the answer was wrong. Firstly, the reason why we believe we should have an assessment: a unanimous committee has included it in the vote. Secondly, it's a unanimous attitude in the Stortinget. Then the correct answer from the Council of State is that when Stortinget asks for it, of course I will come back with such an assessment. But instead, the Council of State says that it's interesting to have this kind of discussion. My question is: Will the State Council follow up the Storting's request to come back with an assessment of where the future ownership of Equinor can best be located? And will the Council of State now answer correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5846	I'm recording that the committee says that. Of course I'll take that with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5851	Then I have to ask: does the Council intend to follow up a unanimous remark from the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5856	It is the Prime Minister in Norway who also decides how to govern a government and where the different responsibilities should lie within the different departments. But, as I said, I take to heart and record what the committee has said in a unanimous remark, and will take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5861	So we're dealing with the ownership message in Stortinget, where state ownership is the subject of discussion in Stortinget. It is that the government makes a message, and that the Storting then says what they mean, also about ownership. Therefore, I regret to ask again: Will it be natural, for example. at the next ownership message, to have a discussion of where Equinor’s ownership should lie?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5866	I cannot foreshadow what should be in the ownership messages. So it's like how the administration should be, who actually follows up ownership, it's the government's and the Prime Minister's privilege to decide. This does not mean that the Storting should not deal with the framework of that ownership, but which department should have ownership in its administration is another discussion. I do not feel that we disagree with the other thing that the representative raises, but just who will determine where ownership should be is up to the Prime Minister and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5871	I just have to find out that we have to come up with this, because it is rarely experienced that a government council in Stortinget does not respond corroboratingly to the fact that a request from a unanimous collapse will be followed up, and that one will respond appropriately. However, I note that things we have discussed here earlier today, about the government's arrogance, also get an impact on this matter. I think it's very disappointing answers we get from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5876	I don't feel that's what I'm saying. I say that I have recorded what the committee has said in its comments, in its position, and that I want to take it with me. I can also answer the Storting if it is desirable – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5881	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5900	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5907	So this is a message about previous revisions, and it is a message that I have not intended to go into the details of the setting. I would rather say that although this is a topic that does not very often get much time and debate in the main hall, I would like to stress the importance of that document. It is important because when the Riksrevision delivers its reports to us, it is common for the Riksrevision to follow up on those reports, so that we are given the opportunity to follow up on the points made both by the Control Committee and after the plenary meeting, are followed up by the government. This time it's as usual eight things. I do not go into each of them, but there are eight of the cases that have previously been followed by the National Audit Office, which is now closed. It's an example of things in which we've had comments, and there's feedback that the government is actually following up, either by the government itself or by the administrative bodies mentioned in the National Audit Office's report. I think that underlines the quality of the way we have national audit in Norway, and the way in which we deal with the reports of the National Audit Office in Norway. So this time there are three issues that the Riksaudition has said they will follow on, and there are all the relevant issues in the ongoing political debate and for the follow-up of the Riksaudition. This concerns the follow-up to non-training and work youth, and it was Document 3:9 for 2015–2016 that was the starting point for it. It is a topic that is still under debate in the main hall, and is going to be a topical issue related to the special situation in Norway with the coronary crisis. The opportunities for young people to enter the labour market are just one of those things where both government and opposition say the same thing, that it is one of our major challenges in society in the future, and therefore it is important that the National Audit Office also follow that case further. The second issue is examining the work of the board of directors to increase the number of apprenticeships. It is another topic in the same field where we know – and as many have said from this pulpit – that it is important that we be able to train our own trade union workers in the future. Then, with apprenticeships, this is one of the most important tools for getting good trade union workers for the future. And finally, the National Audit Office's investigation of the government's work against social dumping by public acquisitions. There is another topic that is becoming more and more topical, not least because we have many foreign workers in Norway, who are involved in pushing the labour market. It is a unanimous committee which agrees to the continuation of those proceedings and to the conclusion of those cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5922	I can show that the case spokesperson in a good way said about the matters that are being followed up further, but I want to focus a little on those that are finished. Managing reports from the National Audit Office is important. It is equally important that the Riksrevision's findings are corrected after the reports have been processed here. Document 3:1 tells us what matters the Riksrevision feel is well enough followed up by the government, and what matters the Riksrevision still has to follow. When the departments fail to fix the Riksrevision, they are responsible for the correctness of the measures taken to correct the problems. One example of how important this is is is the report on the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection's work on social security and preparedness. The Court of Auditors did not submit a report until 2015. He showed that readiness at several points had not been better after Storting's thorough work of looking at what went wrong on July 22, 2011. Then the Storting will decide what should be done to increase social security. In the light of the findings of the report, Stortinget asked for a new management audit two years later. He felt that there had been much better, but that there was still a great difference between the emergency work in the county. Now the Riksrevision closes the case. New instructions for the Ministry’s work on social security have been developed among others. The department has changed its oversight. In order to improve preparedness, the instructions need to be followed and the supervision needs to have consequences. Willingness is the prohibition of the undetected. Even if the Riksrevision closed this case now, it is the Ministry's task to ensure social security. He must always be a tangler to land and people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5935	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5953	At the request of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 10 minutes for the working party groups, the Right, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, and 5 minutes for the political groups of the Green and Red Party and members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e5960	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation on a very comprehensive and important matter. Through the company control, we investigate whether the state manages its interests in the companies as the Stortinget has determined. It is the democratic control of companies owned or shared by the inhabitants that represents very large values measured in crowns and ears, but not least fulfilling important societal critical tasks such as life and health. For the financial year 2019, the National Audit Office has carried out an annual audit and six investigations. We record that the control of general meetings and business meetings indicates that the general meetings and business meetings of the companies subject to this control have been held mainly in accordance with call, implementation and documentation requirements. That's good. It is also good that there is no basis for comments from the annual audit. The National Audit Office has found the basis for observations in relation to five of the six studies carried out by the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Food and Fisheries, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We notice that two of these studies are about the failure of information security, where both studies have shown that external interference can occur in internal systems, and that there have not been good enough systems in place to detect the burglaries. First, ICT security in health. The national audit has revealed major vulnerabilities in the safety of ICT in healthcare businesses. The national audit considers it highly critical that the weaknesses identified in the management of the area are not consistent with the importance of ICT for hospital operations. They use the term ‘very serious’ as to the fact that the prevention of data attacks does not comply with the requirements of law and regulation. It's mildly said that the Riksrevision rarely uses its highest level of criticism. It is only used in situations where the impact on society or the citizens concerned is very serious, for example: the risk to life or health. Preparedness and security have been high on the agenda in recent years. The Control Committee has dealt with several issues relating to errors and deficiencies in this area. We know that ICT security hasn't exactly become less important over time. The National Audit Office also says in this case that many of the weaknesses in ICT safety in health that were revealed in 2014 and 2015 are still present. Then there is reason to ask another question as to whether the preparedness has really come up to the level that we have been promised by the government – as a main task of the Prime Minister himself – in this matter in the field of ICT. The Minister for Health is taking this seriously, and that is important. He accepts that the information security was not good enough, but at the same time indicates that the National Audit Office had been provided with information by health firms that were suitable for facilitating the implementation of the attacks. In addition, the Council of State points out that if the simulated data attacks were detected, the regional undertakings would not try to stop them or take countermeasures. Here it is important to listen to the Riksrevision, which is doing these studies on behalf of the Stortinget. They say that the information provided by health companies may have made the attacks more effective, but that they were not given any benefit that attacks. In addition, three out of four health regions in any case did not detect the attacks and, in their case, it is not relevant in any case. The Committee assumes that the findings, criticism and recommendations of the Riksrevision are taken seriously and followed up. Then I'm going to skip to the Ministry of Oil and Energy's follow-up of Equinor's foreign investment. There are several issues that make this point, one is the disclosures of lack of internal control and what appears to be a little traditional Norwegian business culture in Equinor's onshore US investments. The National Audit Office finds that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has not made clear enough expectations of the transparency of Equinor’s public reports on foreign investment, that the Ministry has not given sufficient attention to the contribution of foreign investment to Equinor’s profitability, and that the Ministry has not had an adequate overview of the content of Equinor’s public reporting. The report of the National Audit Office also well matches the findings of the Oil and Energy Committee in its earlier investigation of the US case. It is useful for the Stortinget to see that the Ministry of Oil and Energy has its share of responsibility in that case, and that the Stortinget agrees with the findings and the recommendations of the National Audit Office, namely that the Ministry makes clear expectations of the transparency of Equinor’s reporting, so that the public and investors are better able to assess the risk and profitability of Equinor’s foreign investment and that the Department is more likely to assess the profitability, risk and return of Equinor’s foreign investment. The Committee also looked at the follow-up by the Ministry of Oil and Energy to Equinor’s involvement in Angola in the field of social security payments and support for a technology centre and, inter alia, the risk of corruption. It was also the main theme of the open hearing organised by the Committee on this part of the case. In the light of the consultation and examination of the case, the Committee considers that there are grounds for asking questions as to whether the centre will be built and as to whether the money for the social projects has actually gone for the purpose. I would like to highlight what the Committee says about us noticing that senior scientist Aslak Orre stated at the hearing that ‘you should have considered the real risk that was known to everyone at that time’. It's important. In particular, the Committee notes that the Council of State referred to Equinor’s final comment at the hearing, where they say they would not today conclude an agreement which they concluded for exploration activities in Angola in 2011. In the hearing Orre and journalist Maren Sæbø also told us that they are experiencing closed doors for researchers and journalists at Equinor. It is not in line with Equinor’s stated value of transparency, but not least with the expectations expressed in the keynote on ownership policy. Furthermore, the Committee expects the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which owns, to follow up thoroughly on cases of possible corruption, and the Committee also expects the Council of State to indicate that the company must do its utmost to ensure that the money goes to the intended purposes here in the specific case and that that effort must not be guided by or dependent on the attention given to the situation from the Storting or the media. I also hope to get into the National Audit Office's investigation of Bane NOR's operations, maintenance and investments. The National Audit Office finds that the operational stability of the railway network has not been improved since the establishment of the Railway NOR. Path NOR has a better understanding of the infrastructure, but still does not have a good enough system to measure the productivity of operation and maintenance of the network, inter alia. And then it's quite interesting that despite increased appropriations, the maintenance run by the railway has not gone down – on the contrary, it has increased. In addition, I believe that there is reason to dwell on another finding at the end, namely the measurement of the railway reform's profit realization. For the contribution of Bane NOR to the railway sector’s profit-reimbursement plan, only three railway projects are included. Only one of these three projects, which incidentally have cost estimates under adopted frameworks, is included in Bane NORs and the Ministry's calculations of gains, while the two projects with cost estimates of the adopted frameworks do not form part of the calculations, although the increase in costs of the two projects actually exceeds the gains of the first. It's a pretty interesting and I'd like to say a little little bit of trust in how the department measures the success of the railway reform. In any case, the majority of the committee says that we support the Riksrevision's assessment that this does not provide a real overview. The entire Committee will continue to follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office in that study. I'm going to leave to others to go deeper into each part of these six studies and just thank the Committee for a good cooperation in a very comprehensive and, as you can see from this article, a variety of issues dealt with by the Control Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6008	Thanks to the vice president, whom he has been given the title of, Freddy André Supreme Court. We are several interim rapporteurs who are responsible for each of our areas. I'll say a little bit about our treatment of Equinor. It has two elements. The first element is Equinor's foreign investment, on which the case rapporteur was involved. In the past, we dealt with a case in the main hall after the Council of State explained the failed investments in the United States and, to the extent that it was also the subject at the time, the large-scale use of money in the management of the U.S. part of the company. In this context, consultation was carried out and a critical setting was made that went to Stortinget. At the time, there was a little discussion about how bad ownership was really done. That's what there was disagreement about in that setting. The National Audit Office’s report on foreign ownership and foreign investment confirms the criticism expressed in the consideration of the matter by the Committee on Energy and the Environment. Once again, it was specifically focused on investment in the United States, as the Stortinget, as I said, has discussed once before. There were very clear examples of passive ownership exercise. Despite the recommendation of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority that it should be reported at country level for the US investment, the Ministry chose to accept that the company did not. There is actually a good picture of lack of ownership because when a Norwegian authority actually recommends that it be reported at that level and it is not followed up on the ownership page, it is a clear example of passive ownership exercise. So to the second element in the vote, which is, as the rapporteur said, Angola. It has previously been discussed in the previous Control and Constitutional Committee and asked the then State Council about the investments made in Angola. The reason for this was that in the case of the licences below, it was agreed that the company, i.e. Equinor, would pay 420 million. SEK to a research and technology centre and SEK 291 million. SEK for social projects. At the time, it was criticised that the research centre was not established and that there was no evidence of the use of social resources. It was said at the time by the Council of State in the light of the criticism or questions raised by the Control Committee that they would follow this matter closely. Then we discovered that neither in 2018 nor 2019 – at least not in 2019 – nor in 2020 until after we started asking questions, the Angola case was followed up from the political level of the department. So there was a lack of ownership. It is something to which a unanimous committee is critical, and on the basis of those we included in the hearing, among others. mentioned Aslak Orre and the journalist Sæbø, we were given insight and confirmation that the risk of corruption in Angola was very high at that time, and that in no way can any guarantee be given that the money paid from a Norwegian company to Angola has not gone to corruption. It's serious. It is also serious that even though the company preached transparency through the hearing, which Norwegian companies are supposed to do, Sæbø as a journalist could confirm that it was impossible to contact Equinor in Angola to ask them critical questions, which fortunately also the media have been concerned about. Just to finish, when the Council of State instead allowed me to say that there was only disagreement between the Directorate of Oil and the Ministry of Oil that was the background for us discussing ownership, it was the opposite. The evidence of passive ownership in the United States and Angola is the main reason why we believe that the company should be managed by a department that has ownership in listed limited liability companies as its subject area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6021	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his very good cooperation in a very comprehensive matter. I am, therefore, a partial rapporteur for the study dealing with health company information security, and the Riksrevision study is valid for the year 2019 and includes, among other things. failure of health business information security. And it's serious, what's revealed. External actors have been able to break into internal systems without being prevented and without good enough systems to detect the attacks. The prevention of data attacks by health businesses is strongly criticised by the National Audit Office. The study reveals significant vulnerabilities in the ICT infrastructure of the four health regions. There are simulated data attacks that gave access to large amounts of sensitive patient information. In all regions, there are significant weaknesses in basic technical security measures to prevent and detect data attacks, unclear responsibilities and unclear division of tasks in the health regions that hamper improvement efforts, and the behaviour of health and ICT personnel weakens ICT security. A data attack may have major consequences for patient treatment, and it may threaten patient safety. The National Audit Office uses its strongest term, ‘very serious’, when referring to the findings relating to ICT security in healthcare establishments. The National Audit Office considers that health regions’ efforts to prevent and detect data attacks do not comply with legal and regulatory requirements. Furthermore, the Riksrevision considers it highly critical that the identified weaknesses in the management of the area are not consistent with the importance of ICT for hospital operations. Patients and residents shall have confidence that information is not being balanced and that unauthorised access is not obtained. Health professionals who need information must have access quickly and easily and must be sure that the information is correct, up to date and complete. It is therefore so important that ICT security is on the agenda continuously in the healthcare sector. All procedures are now becoming more and more digital. It requires good safety systems and a culture of safety that embraces all who work in health businesses. With approx. 200000 employees with different access to ICT systems must be an important part of management’s attention and effort over time. The information security work is constantly changing. Therefore, there is a need for regular and up-to-date filling. The overall criticism of the National Audit Office is that regional health firms have not followed up the safety work well enough and that the follow-up of the Ministry can also be said to have been too passive. The Committee held a closed hearing on this matter. The background was that parts of the study have been graduated MITIGATED under the Safety Act. It was desirable to get a comprehensive information about the weaknesses of the ICT system, which are being corrected, without this being exposed to everyone and to outsiders. In the hearing, relevant actors from several levels of specialist health services met: ICT suppliers, HealthCERT, the Directorate for eHealth and Minister of Health and Care Bent Höie. In fact, with the serious comments made in the National Audit Office's report, I was rather calmed down in the closed hearing, for all the stakeholders who were at the hearing expressed their serious concern about the report and the high level of ICT security in the healthcare sector on the agenda. The weaknesses identified in the report were both known and unknown, and most of them have been corrected after the investigation was carried out. The rest is being repaired, and there is a continuous effort to prevent and detect ICT attacks. As several people said, this is a work that never ends. The outside attacks are becoming more and more sophisticated and sophisticated. It is therefore important to be at the forefront and to have the right skills and systems in place to detect and stop attacks. It is good to see that the findings of the National Audit Office are taken seriously by the Council of State and by health firms. The Council of State points out in its comments that there is a need to strengthen the cooperation of the specialist health service with the Directorate for e-Health and Norsk Healthnett SF, and he will follow up this work in the ownership line. All actors agree that the report is an important document and a good basis for improvement, which must always be on the agenda, and it is good to hear.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6040	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work and for the good cooperation in the Committee on Complexity. The articles in the room show that it extends from health care businesses to Bane NOR, and now I'm going to have an article as the interim rapporteur for operation and achievement in Space Norway. The aim of the Riksrevision has been to examine the management and follow-up of Space Norway AS, if it supports efficient operation and sectoral policy achievement. Space Norway shall contribute to the operation and development of space-related infrastructure in Norway to meet national user needs. The main activity in Space Norway is to own or operate infrastructure and operate with innovation and development. Space Norway has large, complex and capital-intensive tasks related to Svalbard and North Sea policy, security and defence policy and communication and preparedness in maritime rescue, oil preparedness and crisis management. Since the activities consist mainly of owning or renting critical infrastructure which is not suitable for collateralisation, the company’s activities cannot be financed by ordinary bank loans. This implies that the company's business must be capitalised in other ways. As a limited liability company, Space Norway shall at all times have equity and liquidity that is sound in view of the risk and extent of the business of the company. The national audit study suggests that this may not have been the case. Despite the limited financial resources available to Space Norway and its power of action, the company has chosen to launch two large and capital-intensive development projects at the same time. According to the National Audit Office’s report, the company has not had enough capacity to carry out two such large and complex development tasks at the same time, and this has in time led to the company’s becoming in a difficult liquidity situation. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee considers it critical that Space Norway has operated with a very high financial risk and has even contributed to a difficult liquidity situation. According to the National Audit Office, there has also been a disparity between the company's ambitions and the actual financial capacity to bear development costs within the financial framework without a capital injection from the State. The National Audit Office considers that the Ministry should have provided for a better dialogue with the company, at a much earlier stage, on the new tasks to be given priority within the financial framework available. The Committee fully agrees with this. There is reason to stress the importance of not triggering any new activity until funding is in place. Both the company and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries as the Ministry of Ownership have a responsibility for this. The Committee therefore expects the Council of State to ensure that the Board of Directors of Space Norway and the Department have a unified understanding of the company’s statutory objectives. The Committee also points out that Space Norway should cover key infrastructure areas that are critical to Norway, in which case this must be done within the framework established by the Government and the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6057	This is a big deal. I would like to thank both the Chief Spokesman and the spokespersons for their cooperation. A number of things aren't covered here, so I'll try to concentrate on some. I want to start with Bane NOR. Bane NOR was established with the railway reform on 1 January 2017. The establishment would result in more efficient management of the railway infrastructure. In retrospect, this has been a significant increase in rail operating, maintenance and investment. Operating and maintenance permits shall be installed for an operationally stable railway. Investment projects shall be carried out within the cost framework. At the same time as the Stortinget adopted the rail reform, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs will examine a report on the efficiency and maintenance of the network. The Committee set up by the Committee at that time stressed this point. At the launch of the Railway Directorate and Bane NOR SF, better data collection and processing procedures had to be established from the start. The Control Committee expected to ensure the achievement of performance targets, that the necessary management tools should be in place and that they should be put into service. Now, five years later, we got a new report that shows that the increase in the licenses has not resulted in the achievement of the stability measure, cork before or after Bane NOR was created. This means that the premise for creating Path NOR has not been met. The reform aimed at providing better efficiency and more targeted resource use in the sector has been implemented, but the result has not been seen. The railway did not work well before the creation of Bane NOR, but the creation of Bane NOR has not brought about more efficient management of the railway infrastructure, as stated in the decision on size. The Department has also failed to ensure that Bane NOR got a good enough system to measure productivity at start-up, as requested by the Control Committee. In the reply to the Control and Constitutional Committee on 16 March, Minister for Transport Knut Arild Hareide said that a profit-making plan was drawn up as the starting point for the work on Meldning. St. 27 for 2014-2015, Straight track – rail sector reform. Following the handling of the deposit message, the profit-realisation plan was further developed and concreteised in 2017. That minister did not tell us that Bane NOR's contribution to the railway sector's profit-making plan covers only three railway projects. The one project with cost estimates under the agreed framework goes into Bane NOR and the ministry's calculations of gains. The two projects with cost estimates of the established framework do not form part of the calculations, although the increase in costs in two of the projects exceeds the benefits of one project. In this way one tries to decorate the truth that the creation of Bane NOR has not produced results, and that the ministry has not tended to increase the budget framework effectively. Path NOR is one of several that is responsible for the management of the railway. The Railway Directorate operates the design and ordering of the railway project. Bane NOR builds the railway. Ministry of Transport operates the station management of the Directorate of Railways and Owners of Bane NOR. The cure for this is that the choice of projects in the Directorate for Railways is driving the cost of building up. The large cost in Bane NOR is a follow-up to maintenance that was there when the company was created. This is how Bane NOR is created as a company with no control over its own costs. Therefore, it cannot be effective, especially without necessary management tools, which all parties are involved in. There is a lot of paper going on between these three. The ministry is given a poor overview; it may be unclear who is responsible. Nevertheless, the triangle became a square when the department created the company Track operation under Bane NOR on 1 July 2019. I wonder why the Council of State continues to divide railway operations into more and more companies, when it turns out that this does not give the results you have seen. Is it that medicine is the goal, even when it doesn't work? So I'd like to say a little bit about health professionals and prevention of attacks on the ICT system. Willingness is about being predicated on it unexpectedly. ICT security means being in readiness, so that the level of protection is good enough to withstand new types of engagement. Measures come when at least one person expects it. This report shows that ICT security in our hospitals is not in readiness. After all, it was the Riksrevision that went to take this time. The holes in the ICT security found by the National Audit Office were already familiar. They can be resolved in current health care systems. Undertakings have procedures to maintain their protection level up - routines that are not used when they arrive at the piece. Then something's wrong. ICT security in hospitals should protect information about us when we are at the most vulnerable, when we are sick and cannot take care of ourselves. The size gets reports of bad protection level repeatedly. In that case, the Council of State cannot rest assured that this is the responsibility of the health care provider. Governments must actively enter and evaluate what is to be done and whether responsibilities in this area are properly allocated. Patients should be sure that their information is not compromised. The fact that our health care system works is part of national preparedness. For this reason, the Centre believes that the basic ICT infrastructure in the health sector must be covered by the Safety Act. Digital preparedness is a critical societal function. We have experienced this here at Stortinget in the last year. We must never be content with a readiness that is not good enough. So a little bit about the quality of information on expected waiting time in the free treatment option scheme: the aim of the free treatment option scheme is to provide shorter waiting times and good resource use in healthcare. When this scheme was dealt with in Stortinget, the Central Party pointed out that the Riksrevision in 2011 had found that it was only 15 p.m. of the patients who used the service we had before the free choice of hospitals. We then thought it was more important to provide good information and help to patients than to create a new system. We have seen an increase in the use of free treatment since the scheme was introduced in 2015. The requirement for the scheme to work is that patients receive the right information. The National Audit Office has now found that they can't do it. The information about the current patient's waiting time does not give a good idea of the actual wait time. Not only do you have a number of waiting errors, but you also have a broken patient rating. The self-intention to have free treatment options – reducing waiting time, improving patient choice and improving the effectiveness of public hospitals – cannot be implemented without proper information to patients. I note that the Minister of Health will discuss this with healthcare professionals and the Health Directorate. But I'm surprised when the minister wants to care about implementing the intention of the arrangements he's putting before the Storting. So little about the follow-up of Equinor's foreign investment by the Ministry of Oil and Energy. Here I can show the case spokesperson a long time ago, who was in this field. I'm surprised that the department hasn't had a good enough overview of the content of the public report to Equinor. This report shows that Equinor is still making money at home and not on investments abroad. It is Norwegian pedestal that finances Equinor's wish to become big out there. But Equinor doesn't make money out of it. Then the foreign bet is not in line with the state's objective of ownership of Equinor. The State shall achieve the highest possible return over time. The state that owns must follow up the fact that Equinor operates well both at home and outside. The state that owns has to ask questions about profitability is good enough. Fair reporting is needed that provides a basis for assessing profitability. I note that there are once again debates about this report in the media. I also register that Equinor in the hearing of the Committee could not respond to the accounting standard they used when they chose not to comply with the recommendations of the Financial Supervisory Authority in 2014. At that time, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority recommended presenting the business in North America as an own reporting segment. When the state owned 67 pst. by the country's largest oil company, the State must act as a responsible owner. The ownership must be exercised in such a way as to require a responsible lease. Responsible management provides the correct results in open reporting. Reporting must be recognized and actively used by the ministry to ask questions in the management. I hope the department does it this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6099	The National Audit Office has examined the operation, maintenance and investments in Bane NOR. The aim of the investigation has been to determine the extent to which Bane NOR has achieved the operational, maintenance and investment targets and whether the company has established a system to measure productivity. Furthermore, the aim was to examine whether the Ministry of Transport has sufficient management information to follow up the efficiency of operation, maintenance and investment. Path NOR was established as part of the railway reform and is a very important player in the development and operation of the Norwegian railway. The company's operations play a major role for society, and it is therefore important that the department follows that Bane NOR is involved in our efficient management of our railway structure. Of the main findings of the National Audit Office, it is worth noting that the operational stability of the network has not improved since Bane NOR was shipped. The company has been given a better understanding of the infrastructure, but they still do not have a system that is good enough to measure the productivity of the operation and maintenance of the network. It is also concluded from the National Audit Office that Bane NOR does not have sufficient control over the costs of large investment projects, and that the Ministry of Transport has been given insufficient management information to follow up the efficiency of operations, maintenance and investments. The Committee carried out an open hearing on the matter with the trusted, group leader and former and current State Councils. The hearing mainly supported the findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office. Several of the hearing authorities joined the director of the Bundesliga Jane B. Sethre's question where she said: ‘We describe it most by comparing it with a clockwork. Everything is going on in symbiosis – there are no companies in the railway sector that can succeed separately.’ Several of the actors in the hearing pointed out that Bane NOR was governed by many agreements between them and the Directorate of Railways, and the Minister of Transport said that such agreements had to be much fewer. And there may seem something paradoxical with the increased use of contract management and several individual contracts while the railway is being split up into several companies, and that more tasks will be put out of competition. Its several tasks that are put on offer, the more individual contracts the railway must be governed by. The railways have increased significantly over the last few years, both for investment and for maintenance, but, according to the National Audit Office's assessment, they have increased to 20 billion. kr at the beginning of 2020. And the stability of the railway network has not improved since the company Bane NOR was created. At the same time as substantial investments are made in large railway projects, according to the National Audit Office, Bane NOR does not have sufficient control over costs. Through the committee hearing, a few impressions could be made that the Bane NOR Director thought that better cost control in large investment projects could be achieved if the company itself was given responsibility for the draft currencies. This is the responsibility of the Railway Directorate today, and the Minister for Transport said that it is right that this should be done at the directorate level. It is good that the Minister for Transport has agreed on the main findings and recommendations of the National Audit Office, and that he is now expressing his expectation of the rapid outcome of the railway reform. In response to the Riksrevision report, the Ministry of Transport will continue to emphasise, through the Owners' Dialogue with Bane NOR, the expectations that the enterprise will quickly have a system in place to measure productivity and control the costs of large investments, and that the department that owns will be provided with sufficient management information to follow up on efficiency. But the Hareide State Council is still laying the groundwork for the procurement and fragmentation of the railways to even more companies for the management of the railways. The Labour Party and I believe that the lack of evidence of productivity pointed out by the Riksrevision here in its report should be a warning against more market regulation of the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6130	I take the Riksaudition's main findings, comments and recommendations very seriously. All audited enterprises recognise the vulnerability revealed by the National Audit Office and are now working systematically to close them down. The findings show that this is an area that will require great attention and priority in the future. The National Audit Office acknowledges that health regions have implemented measures that have strengthened information security in recent years. Compared to previous audits, there has been a clear improvement in this area. Norwegian society is becoming increasingly digitised. The digitisation in the healthcare sector provides the basis for increased interaction between healthcare professionals across the treatment site and strengthens patient safety. The positive consequences for patient treatment increase as digitisation progresses. At the same time, the threat picture has changed, and hospitals have become increasingly interesting targets for digital threat actors. Health undertakings are subject to a daily data attack. We have been able to handle this in a good way for the time being, without going beyond patient treatment. I take note of the Committee's comment on a more active State Council, which takes responsibility for the very serious findings. Furthermore, as Minister of Health and Care, I have to ensure that the Department obtains adequate management information, sets the necessary requirements and follows up the compliance with the requirements of regional health companies. I would like to add some comments to this. The established model of responsibility in the specialist health service does not confer operational responsibility on the department, nor is it natural for a department to play such a role. However, I have made a number of claims, including: on the basis of previous national audit cases and individual events, where information security has been the subject. In addition to the ordinary follow-up, the Ministry has held specific joint follow-up meetings with the health regions related to requirements imposed. This follow-up will continue and it will be strengthened. When I joined as Minister of Health and Care in 2013, I commissioned the Health Directorate to draw up an overview of the state of ICT in the health and care sector. Three reports were prepared. These described an overall challenge picture, an analysis of ICT work in the specialist healthcare service, and an analysis of the Norwegian supplier market for electronic patient records. This has been an important knowledge of the activities of strengthening information security. As part of the systematic improvement work in recent years, we have facilitated overall management and control of safety work. There is a separate Directorate for eHealth, and we have strengthened HealthCERT, which is the sector's joint centre of competence for operational security. Health oversight has been given responsibility for ICT auditing and, through ownership management of health regions, a number of demands have been made to strengthen the work on information security and implement the basic principles of ICT security, as developed by the National Safety Authority, the NSM. In the joint enterprise meeting in January this year, I asked the health regions to follow up the main findings, comments and recommendations of the National Audit Office, in cooperation with the Directorate for e-Health and Norwegian Health Network. They shall also develop regional action plans for this work. The plans will be discussed at a joint meeting on 3 June and at a joint follow-up meeting in October. I also asked for health regions to identify national and interregional measures to strengthen information security and strengthen the prevention of data attacks, including in cooperation with the Directorate for eHealth and Norwegian Health Networks. This includes, inter alia: exercises, audits, vulnerability scanning and penetration testing. As part of this, HealthCERT will be strengthened. At the business meeting, I requested to ensure the necessary clarification of responsibilities, roles and tasks in a region, and also to present the status of the work on information security in their own joint meetings, in joint follow-up meetings and in annual notification. Overall, this will provide the Ministry with the necessary management information and a good basis for the work on information security in the specialist health service. A modern, high-quality healthcare requires the provision of information security and privacy and a reinforced, systematic and risk-based prevention of malicious data attacks. Only in this way can we achieve better and safer healthcare and maintain public confidence. This work will have a high priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6161	The Directorate for eHealth pointed out in the ‘Overall Risk and Vulnerability Assessment for ICT in the healthcare sector’ in 2019 that the interdependence between ICT, patient treatment and patient safety increases as digitisation takes place. Sjukehusta's ICT systems are complex and have many dependencies. Inaccessible ICT systems are a serious threat to the health and care sector. What has the Council of State done to manage this risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6166	I presented a number of measures in my article. Some of the things I have done include: to establish the Directorate to which the representative referred in order to have a stronger national governance in the development of ICT in the health sector. Because there is just one thing that has led us into a situation of too complex an ICT system, both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities, but not least between the two sectors. Some of the reports that I ordered when I became Minister of Health and Care showed were just that there was not a strong enough national governance in this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6171	The National Audit Office points out that unclear responsibilities and unclear division of tasks in health regions are hampering the improvement of work. Does the Council of State believe that the distribution of responsibilities and tasks for ICT security in healthcare professionals is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6176	I share the Riksrevision's view that there is a need to further work on clarifying this, and therefore it is also part of the mission that we have given to the health regions as a follow-up to the report, and that they will also report on in the reports that are coming in June and in the October follow-up meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6181	The national audit considers that it is very serious that the prevention of data attacks does not comply with the requirements of law and regulation. That's the highest level of criticism. It means risk to life and health. In his reply, the Council of State says that he takes this seriously, and refers to a number of improvement measures in his article, which is good. What I am familiar with in this case is that the Riksrevision also says that many of the weaknesses in the field of ICT security in health that were revealed in 2014 and 2015 are still present. My question to the Council of State is whether we can now trust that what the Riksrevision revealed in this round will be resolved if the Riksrevision would look at this again in five to six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6186	I agree with the representative that it is a very serious report, and I take it very seriously. I have to admit that when I read the report, I thought it was discouraging, simply because I had a considerable hope that the condition would be better after the previous reports and all the work that was done after that. I expect that what has been done and done will bring improvements in this area, but then there are some basic challenges that it takes time to solve. It's a lot about the basic ICT infrastructure, especially in our largest health region, Health South-East, which is complex, where it's taken time to get the necessary infrastructure clean-up. There are historical reasons why this has been the case, among others. that one started up with Health South and Health East. As a result, someone started this work later.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6193	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6198	In its report, the National Audit Office points to several challenges arising from the development mandate of Space Norway and the fact that the company has been in a build-up and development phase during the investigation period. The issues raised by the National Audit Office are relevant and address issues addressed by the Ministry of Food and Fisheries and have been addressed in the owner’s follow-up of Space Norway. I notice that the Riksrevision believes that there has been a positive development in the Ministry's follow-up to the company in recent years. Follow-up of State companies shall, as set out in: the notification of ownership is proportionate to the size and complexity of the company. The Ministry has therefore stepped up the ownership dialogue since 2018 and requested more information in line with the company's development, as the Riksrevision also points out. I will ensure that the Ministry of Food and Fisheries continues to follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Among other things, the NFD will follow up the balance of the Space Norway Board of Directors on the willingness to carry out resource- and capital-intensive innovation and development tasks with the actual capacity of the company in relation to its financial framework and capacity. Furthermore, the NFD will work to ensure that the Space Norway Board and the Department have a unified understanding of the scope of the company’s statutory objectives in terms of innovation and development tasks. We will follow up on the establishment by the Space Norway Board of an appropriate system of target and result management, as a tool to support efficient operation and sectoral policy objectives and to assess the appropriateness of Space Norway to continue to keep its annual accounts in line with the rules for small enterprises. As a result of the country's expectation of transparency and reporting, the Ministry will continue to pay attention to good reporting in the ownership dialogue with the company. The development of new and cost-effective solutions to address Norwegian societal needs forms part of the activity of Space Norway. Some of the company’s activities are innovation- and development-oriented and necessarily involve a technological risk. It is up to the board to assess this risk and to balance it against the company’s sectoral policy objectives and potential societal value of results and the company’s financial framework conditions. I notice that the Committee believes it is critical that Space Norway AS has operated with a high financial risk and has even contributed to putting itself in a difficult liquidity situation. I would like to stress that the Board of Directors in the autumn of 2018 was early to announce a potential liquidity challenge that never materialized. The Ministry followed the company particularly closely during this period. I want to include learning points from the National Audit Office's study in the further follow-up of Space Norway. I will continue to inform the Storting about significant issues related to Space Norway's activities when relevant to decisions to be taken by the Storing, based on the State's ownership objectives and within the framework of the ownership notification and the role allocation in company law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6217	I have noticed that the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee are in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The issues raised by the Riksrevision are reflected in the themes of the Ministry, both in the owner’s dialogue and as sectoral authority. I therefore agree with the main findings of the National Audit Office and will follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office. The Ministry's own investigations and the external company review of Bane NOR carried out by the Ministry support the recommendations of the National Audit Office and will be important for the further follow-up of Bane NOR. The National Audit Service recommends the Ministry of Transport to follow up the establishment of the Bane NOR system that is good enough to measure the productivity of operation and maintenance of the network. Path NOR has since the establishment of the company worked to improve the description of the infrastructure. The entity has now established a system to measure operational and maintenance productivity. I expect a rapid development and will demand progress and effects of this work. The National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Transport follows up the improvement of cost control in large investment projects by Bane NOR. I totally agree with that. The Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of Railways and the Bane NOR are working on the actions mentioned in the National Transport Plan. Measures shall give orbit NOR greater operational freedom combined with greater financial responsibility for the dispositions of the entity and a more appropriate incentive structure. Overall, the actions shall contribute to better governance and control through a clear location of responsibilities for the respective Directorates and Bane NOR. Societal economic wage assessments are to be based to a much greater extent on the implementation of the project portfolio, so that we increase the social benefits and can achieve the goal of more rail for money faster. The National Audit Board recommends that a necessary and political governance information be maintained in order to follow up the efficiency of Bane NOR’s operations, maintenance and investments. The development of the management and control system in Bane NOR has been a high priority for more professional management, and it is important to have a good description of what is being measured, in the form of reliable basic data, that the Department of Late Lane NOR has time to design indicators to follow up operational, maintenance and investment efficiency. It is important to get ahead of this work. I have therefore expressed strong expectations that the work will be given high priority in Bane NOR, and that the department that owns the dialogue with the management and management of the enterprise is considering challenging indicators and targets. As I also said in my hearing, I take very seriously what the Riksrevision has uncovered. We're in agreement with the main findings, and we're working continuously to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6239	During the committee hearing, a few impressions could be made that the Director of Bane NOR thought that better cost control in large investment projects could be achieved if the company itself was given the responsibility for the draft selections. This responsibility is shared by the Directorate of Railways today, and the Council of State expressed in the same voice that it is right that this should be done at the level of the Directorate. If this is a correct impression, can the Council of State do more for this vision and justify it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6245	It's right that the representative Magne Rommetveit points out here, that I expressed that vision in the ears, and that's what I think is right. Bane NOR today has far greater freedom and ability to influence its projects than, for example, New Roads have with the leadership of today. And just a concept selection statement, which maybe also goes over several different forms of travel, I think naturally is at the directorate level. There's something in your mind: here we're going to look at what possibilities there are, what concept we're going to choose. To give a development company responsibility for what I think I'm going to sneak in and not show it the wholeness. So I'm busy giving Bane NOR greater freedom when they first get a job, but just KVUs think I'm on the right level as it's organized today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6252	We still hear that it should be better and that one should get better control. But now the Riksrevision has seen the challenges here several times, and there are a lot of companies in the railway sector, and at the same time they say that Bane NOR is going to get more freedom. And then we have formed two societies between Vegvesenet and Bane NOR when it applies to both K5, on the west side of the Bergensbanen, and the Ringeriksbanen. So now you're going to give the job on the Ringerix track to New Roads, which is to split it up even more, in the place where Bane NOR is going to develop and show that they can get that interaction between them and the Road Service. What is the reason why the government does it, while the council says that Bane NOR is going to develop?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6257	Yes, it is right that we want to give the joint project to New Vegar on the east side. It is a joint project consisting of Ringeriksbanen and the road to Hønefoss, E16. I just have to say that in one of the first reviews of what New Vegar has done on that project, they're drawing a very exciting picture of the future. We have increased investment at the same time, we have almost triple the now in ten years. There have been different political parties and different governments, but we have a much larger stake on rail now than before. So it's going to be enough of the big projects for Bane NOR also in the future. They have 18 projects in their portfolio today. But just getting two extension environments on the railway side, as we have on the road side, I think I'll be very good. It's going to give a positive gain, as it's given in the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6270	New roads will get more freedom on the Ringeriksbanen. Has the Council considered whether one could do the same thing on the K5 option, where a portfolio management was provided, where the Road Administration and the Bane NOR could jointly look at what they can do if they had the same freedom to solve road and road development, and where they could use the funds according to what is most effective? At the moment, there is a division of roads and roads, so that they have to build up at what time the money comes from the different budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6275	It's a very good question, and I want to look closer to that possibility, because I think that greater freedom for the players who are going to work here, to get the most possible left for the money, will be good. Because I think only a review of the K5 project, just as when New Roads have gone through the joint project on the east side, will be very good. It could give you more money, could give you a larger project than the one that K5 is there, almost for the resources that are at stake today, just thinking about that possibility, and that's what's at stake. The free trade granted to New Roads, I would like to give it to the State Road Service, and I hope that we can give a greater freedom to Bane NOR. These are good people who work to make the best of the projects, and what we see is that the less we politicians control the details, and the bigger the challenges they get to manage this themselves, the better it gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6282	There is a high cost from the Riksrevision, and a great deal closer to a full slaughter of the government's railway reform is probably not possible. There would be a lot better on the railway, but the reality is that it's never been worse. One of the points of the Riksrevision is that Bane NOR does not have a system that is good enough to measure the productivity of operation and maintenance of the railway. That's pretty strong words. But what is alarming is that the Hareide Council continues on the same blizzard as its predecessors, and that the government continues – with more fragmentation, more privatisation, more tenders, more outsourcing. Now it is the operation, maintenance and readiness of our infrastructure that is at stake. Track operations that are still ongoing shall now be subject to competitive tendering. Does the Minister of Transport mean that we get a better rail system by holding on to what the government is doing now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6289	There was a debate about Grandma going out on offer. It was a debate I could understand, but that there should not be good competition on the kind of project we have here – we have done this on the road, it was the Bondevik II government that did. I have seen that the governments that have come after have not even considered the idea of turning that policy around. This has caused us to have more money left. I think that getting a better structure on the railway, too, is absolutely necessary. And then it's not that the challenge on the railway today is not that we're not renewing the structure – the challenge is that the railway is too old. Large parts of the Norwegian railway are more than 60 years old, 90 pst. of which he is more than 60 years old. That's the challenge. We use it more than ever, because we have 20 pst. increase in traffic of only six to seven years. There's too much wear. It's the challenge, not that we think about organizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6296	We can take the debate on the rail reform of its own. But when the Riksrevision says that Bane NOR does not have a system that is good enough to measure the productivity of operation and maintenance – and that is the point and angle of incidence here now – the government is still going to tender for private companies, i.e. the operation, maintenance and preparedness of our common infrastructure. We are not talking here about expansion projects, we are talking about the daily operation of the infrastructure on our track, about rails, sleepers, technical infrastructure, electricity, etc. – when one does not have a system that allows one to measure productivity today. And then you're going to have it on offer and maybe let go to a lot of different companies on different sections of the road. How can the Minister for Transport be sure that this will lead to a better rail network?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6303	What the Riksrevision also says is that we have got a better overview of the infrastructure, just a status. Then it is quite right, as the representative Sverre Myrli says, that we must have an even better system, but what the Riksrevision also says is that the railway reform has made the means we use for operating and maintaining better administration. That's good. So I think that just ensuring a good organisation of this is good, but the main problem is that we have an operating and maintenance budget on the railway, which in 2010 was 2 billion. kr. We've added over 7 billion. 10 years later. But the maintenance on the railway was so big, and the main reason for that is that 90 pst. Norwegian railways are more than 60 years old and create some challenges. Fortunately, a large number of people in this room have concluded that we need to give priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6310	What I think is so strange about this matter is that the Riksrevision on the one hand does not find any demonstrable increase in the impact after the railway reform and that the maintenance run has increased, although the appropriations have increased. But despite that, on the other hand, it seems that the Council's response is more of the same, i.e. more fragmentation, more governance through a lot of agreements, more outsourcing. The number of directors in the railway has increased from eleven to fifty, at least the last time I checked. More time and resources are spent in this railway bureaucracy on orders, agreements, coordination and internal reporting between different companies, all of which operate by rail. There is one company that orders another company to do something, and then there is a third company that controls it. Have the councils just thought of the idea in their quiet mind, that maybe this could bring less efficiency and not more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6316	As I said, the railway reform has made the funds used for maintenance better today. Then we have challenges, not least on the side of investment, and it is clear from the Riksaudition report. It worries me. But it is also a matter of actually now in ten to fifteen years that we have gone from just taking care of the railway to really developing it. I have seats in two governments. I joined the Bondevik II. So if we look at how the investment budget for the railway was under Bondevik II, it's been a gigantic revolution over the fifteen years that have passed until I'm back in government, when it comes to rail betting. I think we have to ask ourselves the question: was the railway quite ready to get the big investments? We may not have been well enough prepared to make so much investment, but it is important that we now follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6323	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6328	I would like to begin by stressing that, as the Committee expects, in my further ownership dialogue with Equinor I will follow up on the company's activities in Angola. This concerns the company's work on issues related to hidden ownership and the company's work to ensure that the funds paid to the research and technology centre are used in line with its intention. In addition, I would still like to focus on the National Audit Office's study of Equinor's foreign activities. The National Audit Office points to three main findings in its report and makes two recommendations. I don't see this as a crushing report, as it has sometimes been produced. The report describes a comprehensive follow-up from the Department of Equinor’s foreign investment. The term ‘critical’, which is the mildest form of criticism used by the Riksrevision, appears twice in the report. The two recommendations, to which the Committee subscribes, are that the Ministry makes clear expectations about transparency in reporting and that, when it comes to Equinor’s foreign investment, the Ministry assesses its profitability, risk and return to a greater extent. To the former, I would like to stress that the Department already has clear expectations of transparency and reporting. Transparency and good corporate reporting have regularly been a topic of the Ownership Dialogue with Equinor. The company has been challenged to have more reporting segments, including under former government, and, as is known, the US and renewable energy are already separated as separate reporting segments, while the Brazilian business of the company is not considered mature enough for independent reporting. It is important that Equinor’s reporting provides the public with an insight into the company’s activities and provides an opportunity to assess the achievement of its objectives and risks. I will continue to address these questions in the company's follow-up. I would also like to add that our consultant, Arctic Securities, has assessed it in such a way that the capital market has had the necessary information to make sufficiently good valuations of the company. As regards the Riksrevision's second recommendation, on assessments of profitability, I do not agree with the Riksrevision's claim that the Ministry has had excessive attention to production. Wages and salaries have been and are a central part of the company's reporting and are widely noted by all stakeholders, of course also by the OED as owner. During the audit period, from 2011 to 2019, the Ministry has taken up the profitability of foreign activities in all quarterly meetings with the company and in owner’s meetings. Having said that, I have an ambition that the ministry's assessments of profitability in foreign activities will be under constant development. The National Audit Board’s recommendation to make greater use of data from the country-by-country report will be part of this. The company's activity abroad has increased, and the OED's attention to this part of the business has increased as a result. In addition to the quarterly meetings, there have been separate meetings on the international activity, and since 2013, the OED has had external advisers who have assisted in analysing the activity. I have also set up a new annual meeting between the department and the company to go through the annual report in depth. At this year's meeting, on 26 March, the annual report was thoroughly reviewed and the company was given the opportunity to elaborate matters of importance. The company’s activities in the United States, Brazil and Angola and the company’s HMS work were topics that were discussed specifically. The state has a large and valuable holding in Equinor. The ownership of the State shall contribute to the maintenance and further development of a leading technology and energy company providing good returns to the owners, including the State. I take with me the recommendations of the National Audit Board in an active ownership dialogue with Equinor, and I will continue to make clear expectations of the company. Finally, if I was unclear in the line exchange instead, I would like to have the opportunity to clarify what I said. As I said before, I believe that the internal organisation of the government, as far as the state councils should have what responsibility, is up to the Prime Minister to decide. Having said that, I take, as I also said before, of course, the majority position from the Committee, and with the fact that the government should consider whether the ownership management of Equinor should be added to the NFD, without I want to advance the outcome of such a process today. It has been assessed in the past, and there is nothing wrong with reconsidering it. If I was unclear instead, it is also because I do not perceive that the committee asks me to come back to Stortinget, but of course we can do such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6353	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6358	I think the council approached a better response to the previous line round, so I just took note of it. As I said, the part about US investment in particular has been thoroughly discussed in Stortinget before, so I have a follow-up question about Angola. It was said in the hearing of the current director, CEO, as it is called in those circles, that the investment made in Angola would not be made today, at least not on the premises that he was given at the time. I assume that the Council of State agrees. But has the Council of State done anything since we had that hearing to follow up that focus on Angola, and not only the research centre, but also the social resources, which might have gone into corruption even more uncertain?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6363	Yes, I have discussed this topic, which I was also in the hearing of the Control Committee, several times with the company, and I will continue to do so. I also believe that the company itself has said that they would not conclude such agreements again, is correct and good. It is important that Equinor has good control over these things, that when they operate in countries where such situations may be difficult, they must have clear guidelines to look for. And this we're going to keep following up. I have expectations that the company will clarify relationships related to hidden ownership, that they will help to clarify what they can, as far as this is concerned. It is also the responsibility of the board to follow it further, but of course we will ask about it in our dialogue with the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6368	So to another thing that came out during the hearing, and it was that the company was very busy expressing that they were concerned with openness and transparency in their processes. At the same time, in the hearing, we experienced from journalists that Sæbø told us that they had tried to get information in Angola, and that it was just as difficult to get information from Equinor, Statoil, when she was down there, as it was from Angolan authorities. Has the Council of State addressed that issue with Equinor? It is difficult to believe that there is a problem only with Angola location.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6373	I don't feel Equinor is a closed company that won't help inform matters like the media, the press, journalists ask about. I also believe that they are right and important. I have not discussed precisely those questions after the consultation with the company. I believe the company responded to this in the hearing, and it is also their own responsibility to provide for it. But I think it's important to clarify that I don't feel Equinor is a closed company that doesn't help to share information they can share.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6378	I believe the Council of State does, but the problem is that those who then try, for example. In fact, it is perceived, as it was said, that it is as difficult to obtain information from Equinor in Angola as it is from the Angolan authorities — and they are not particularly open. So then probably the Council of State should follow that impression -- Equinor told us as well as the Council of State that they were concerned about transparency -- and whether there is something that is practised in everyday life, for example. in Angola.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6383	It is somewhat difficult for me to decide on claims from others about how their experiences have been with the company. But I can assure the representative and Stortinget that I will of course be concerned with communicating – still – that we have expectations that Equinor will be an open company, and that is available, and that share information they can share. I think that's a guide. I also believe that the company has shown that they are among the companies in international context that are open to many things, more than the other companies are. But the claim that they should be as closed as Angola is a statement I can neither confirm nor want to believe a lot about here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6388	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6396	Then we go from Equinor back to Bane NOR and what the National Auditorate has said about Bane NOR's operation, maintenance and investments. Path NOR was established as a result of the so-called railway reform. This was – and is – a performance project for the current government, with a slightly different composition, but the Riksrevision is not unmerciful when they have now gone through how Bane NOR works. It is clear that when the Riksaudition says that the operational stability has not improved, that Bane NOR does not have sufficient cost control in large investment projects, and that Bane NOR does not have a system that is good enough to measure the productivity of operation and maintenance of the railway, it is serious. These are very strong words, and if this had been at school, I don't think the government would have passed this exam. The point of the railway reform, one should believe, was that one should get better rail. We haven't got that. The budgets are increasing sharply, and the Minister for Transport is quite right in that. It started in 2005 under the red-green government, and still under this government, it should be right, but we must also ensure that ever-increasing budgets lead to better railways. This report and this study are no better than previous studies by the National Audit Office on the situation on the railways. I'd rather say the opposite. The railway has become worse, and the control and overview are worse. And as if it's not enough: the maintenance run on the railway is increasing. Only this year the government itself writes in the government budget that it is increasing by 1.3 billion. kr. The truth is that the railway reform was probably not implemented to get a better railway, but that it was an ideological project. Linda Hofstad Helleland, who was the head of the transport committee, said it was probably right, what the government was thinking, that they should squeeze as much toothpaste as possible out of the toothpaste tube. We've got a lot of companies and companies on the railroad, and we've got a new directorate. We have a department at the top, we have the railway directorate, we have Bane NOR, who owns the infrastructure, we have track operations, we have the infrastructure, we have Norwegian trains, we own the trains, we have Mantena, we have Mantena, we have Entur, who is responsible for route information and ticket sales, and we have Vy, SJ and Go-Ahead, who run trains, and the government wants even more companies. Here, I don't think the National Auditor's gonna be unemployed in the years to come. There's probably a lot of research coming from the Riksrevision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6411	I allow myself some reflections. The first is that this is also independent of the government color, at least almost, because in this particular context, I'm putting this aside with the privatisation discussion a little bit. I want to say, when I'm listening to this debate, that after the years I've been here in the Storting and had these different functions, I recognize this discussion. It rolls and goes and rolls and goes. The size makes its decisions and regulations, but we get them up and up again. There's reason for reflection around why it's that way, because there's something about the distance between political management and the companies that I think there's every reason to focus on. There are two examples here of the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I'm going to trust the Council of State that it could be about others too, but since this is being drawn out here, I just want to deal with it. As far as Angola is concerned, the question is, why in the world has it taken so long for Equinor to say that they shouldn't have done this? I can't in my head figure out how many years it's taken, but it's taken many years, despite the fact that we've had these discussions here in the National Assembly. Does that mean that we have state companies that do not respect Parliament? Is it true that for large state companies to pretend that what's going on in this room really doesn't matter? There's a reason to really reflect on whether you're in government, whether you're in government, or whether you're here as a staging representative. The fact that the US investment was not discovered by Statoil/Equinor, with the huge losses it has caused to Norwegian taxpayers, is an expression that we do not have proper control, and that they do not – because we should not touch them, because the integrity of the board goes beyond that. That's a nice thing. The last thing I wanted to say is that it's the report from the National Audit Office that underlies this debate – that's now the side of the case – and that's good, but very often in these contexts it's the press that finds out the issues. We should also reflect on what is the reason, in terms of ownership management.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6420	I will not prolong the debate much, but I would like to say that in the debate on the railway I think there was a change in 2010. Then we saw the challenge that Norwegian railway had. Until that, in this hundred year, we had taken care of the railway. Then we saw that we had to take big steps and actually invest in him, and there was a change in 2010. Now the promises from 2010 to 2021 are more than triple, almost quadruple, and it shows that we have had a willingness to bet on it. So we know that the Norwegian railway is still old. Like I said, 90 pst. of the railway we have, is more than 60 years old. He needs maintenance. And even though we've increased the permissions of 2 billion. kr for operation and maintenance in 2010 to more than 7 billion. kr in 2021, the need is great. And then I want to comment on what more people have pointed out, that some projects have been included, and that it is suggested that we have included the projects that would fit us into a profit-reform plan. What this is about is that Bane NOR thinks it's just one project they themselves had enough control over to include in the payroll realization plan. The other two took over so late that many of the premises were already made. That was the background for why some projects were included in the profit implementation plan. So it was Bane NOR's proposal, and the Ministry of Transport agreed with that assessment in 2010. So we now have dialogue with Bane NOR about what projects should be included in their winning implementation plan. The portfolio management is very good in this way, because then we actually go from thinking about a project after a project, to seeing the soundness. I believe this debate has revealed that it will be a good one, a good one that I believe will be common political consensus in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6431	There I fully agree with the Minister for Transport, and just to have it said once more: yes, the appropriations for railway purposes have increased considerably, and the Minister for Transport made a good rail budget for 2021. There is no doubt that the appropriations have increased significantly in the last 15 years, but it does not just hold on to appropriations. The more money we give to the railway, the more important it is that the money is used correctly, and that we get back for the money that the big business and government has set itself as a goal. That's what the Riksrevision points out in the study. We can discuss railway reform and have ideological debates, but the Riksrevision says that the way Bane NOR is governed today, we won't get enough for the money, and that doesn't work well enough. I have read the National Audit Office's investigation, and I also attended the hearing of the Supervisory Committee in the case. I bet myself, among other things. Note how the Bane NOR manager described the everyday life of the railway. This must be taken seriously by the Minister for Transport and by the Government. Path NOR is owned by the Ministry of Transport, but Bane NOR receives its appropriations through the Directorate of Railways, through a lot of agreements – a very complex management agency with the Ministry of Transport as its owner. The Ministry of Transport grants the money to the Directorate of Railways, which again has an agreement with Bane NOR. One has to see that this is a very complicated system. And when one in addition has many, many actors on the railway -- the number of companies just pop up, and there's more and more -- this is a system that's hard to manage. It goes without saying that it is quick to lose the overview. I think the government and the Minister for Transport must take that very seriously. When we give as much money as we now do to the railway, we have to make sure that we get the corresponding good railway out of all the means used. That is why I hope that the Minister for Transport takes seriously the memory of the Riksrevision. He has already said that, and it is good, but I am uncertain whether the government is willing to make changes to its performance project, the railway reform, with fragmentation, privatisation and outsourcing. So now there's operation, maintenance and readiness on the railway that doesn't have an overview of what's going to be put on the market and out to companies so that we get even more players. I think that's a bad idea. I'm afraid we're getting several studies from the National Audit Office that point out that this is not working.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6459	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6466	The issue we are about to deal with now concerns the National Audit Office's investigation of the government's work on export control of strategic products, i.e. defence and multifunctional goods. The national audit has looked at whether this work has been effective and in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting. Norway is bound by international agreements regulating trade in arms and other defence equipment. In addition, we have some self-imposed restrictions in the form of the so-called 1959 Stortinget Decision and clarification in 1997, which form the basis of Norwegian arms export policy. This includes, inter alia: Norway will not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war or war or to countries where there is civil war. The Committee has been thoroughly involved in this matter. There's also been some attention around it. The Committee has received a report from the National Audit Office, but we have also received an annex that has been graduated. Both the Committee and the National Audit Office have asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to consider degrading the Annex, but this has not happened. We cannot therefore refer to the annex, either in the matter or in the debate today. For my own part, I think it is a bit demanding. I agree that documents should be graduated when there is a basis for doing so, but I would point out that unnecessary grading can help to weaken the public debate. So turn to the report we can talk about and the conclusions that lie there. The Committee is divided into a number of comments on this matter, and where we are, I will speak for the majority of the Committee, which is the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV. And then the minority in their posts gets to account for their comments. First, there are three issues that the Riksrevision concludes that are serious. The National Audit Office concludes that the police security service, PST, is giving low priority to prevention. It increases the risk that licensed defence equipment and goods and technology capable of strengthening the military capabilities of the recipient countries will be exported without a licence. The majority of the Committee has noted that the Riksrevision has found that the low priority of the PST for prevention increases the risk of non-licensed exports of licensed strategic products and that the low priority of this area of activity over time in the PST involves the gradual disappearance of competences, networks and information channels that have taken time to build up. This will further weaken prevention efforts. Little effort on the part of the PST side of prevention poses a greater risk of non-licensed exports of licensed strategic products. We, the majority of us in the committee, stress that the Riksrevision considers this to be serious, and we support that conclusion. Then there's the second serious conclusion from the National Audit Office, where it's said that the Department of Foreign Affairs' decision-making basis prior to the approval of exports to the United Arab Emirates was not good enough to assess the risk of material drifting. Weighing materials may end up with an undesirable end-user or be used for unwanted purposes. Thus, the Ministry has not complied with Storting’s assumption that thorough ex ante assessments are the most important safeguard against Norwegian material being diverted, well enough. The National Audit Office has examined the written decision-making basis of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to allow the sale of defence equipment to the United Arab Emirates for the period 2013-2017. There is an overall committee which notes that the National Audit Office considers that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not drawn up sufficient decision-making grounds to assess the risk of diversion of the Norwegian exported material to the United Arab Emirates. The Committee points out that the assessments carried out by the Riksrevision are that there is no important information that could have elaborated the risk of diversion. The majority of the committee, of which I am a part, have noted in particular that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not done well enough to ensure that thorough ex-ante evaluations are the most important safeguard against Norwegian material ports. We support the Riksrevision's assessment that this is serious. The last point that the Riksrevision concludes that is serious is that the customs tariff controls few exports. This leads to an increased risk of unwanted dissemination of goods and technology, which may have negative safety consequences for Norway and our allies — that is, serious, too. Finally, the Riksrevision makes a number of recommendations to the departments concerned, and we expect the departments to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6489	It is an important task for the National Audit Office and the Control Committee to follow closely the work of the Norwegian authorities on export control of strategic products in order to assess whether this is in line with the decisions and assumptions of the Storting and whether control is effective. The National Audit Office’s report does not provide information that Norwegian defence equipment has gone astray or that defence equipment has been diverted to unwanted end-use. It's important, and that's good. However, the National Audit Office concludes that in many cases the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has opened up too poor a sale of defence equipment to countries, and that many of the country assessments of countries authorised to receive so-called A-materials, i.e. weapons, ammunition and certain types of military material, were prepared before 2010. The national audit therefore considers that many country assessments do not provide a sufficiently thorough and well-managed basis for decision-making. I would like to point out to the Council of State that exports of defence equipment are based on a two-step system. The land clearance is only an opening for the licence application to be processed. The application itself is thoroughly and individually assessed against established guidelines and criteria. A conclusion that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has opened up for sale on too poor a basis should be based on an assessment of the whole process, not just the first part, which is the land clearance. It is therefore that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs regularly rejects applications for countries which have been cleared, in the light of the specific product sought to be sold, that risks related to end-use or that international commitments are rejected. It has also emerged that there is a need to clarify the assessments made. That's also the department's concern. It is positive that measures have been taken to improve traceability and clarify the assessments underlying the decisions taken, including: through the new E-licensing system. This will also strengthen the digital interaction between the department and the customs office in the control of exports of strategic goods. Finally, the National Audit Office considers that PST is not sufficiently active in its role in the prevention of export control and non-proliferation, and that although the PST has followed up specific cases against businesses, institutions and academia, few preventive business visits have been carried out by potential exporters of licensed multi-use goods in some police districts. A low priority of this field is serious and may lead to confusion between competences, networks and information channels. This may in turn increase the risk of licensed strategic products being exported without a licence. However, I would like to remind you that the PST is engaged in ongoing and long-term prevention work aimed at businesses and the academia and has statutory tasks of preventing and investigating breaches of the export control legislation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for increasing the awareness and knowledge of the legislation of the relevant social actors. The National Audit Office’s study shows that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carries out extensive business seminar and meeting activities to inform about export control legislation. Since 2019, academic efforts have also been increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6502	I will begin by congratulating the Kongsberg Group on a contract of 4 billion. kr today. It is a fantastic event for the Norwegian defence industry and technology – automatic grenade launchers that can be mounted on vehicles, making the shooter more protected inside his vehicle. It's amazing, and I also expect everyone in the room to be happy about it. What we can't control is what Americans do when they get this sub-system from Norway. There is no guarantee that Americans will not use this in areas that we do not believe are all right, which violate our export conditions, or go to countries that we believe we cannot accept. The Americans use it where American interests are best served, and we may not agree. But it creates new technology in Norway. It creates jobs. It gives revenue, new revenue to the public. There will be a higher share price and an increased return. So that's good. The big business has set the goal of having a viable defence industry that will contribute to security of supply for our own and our allies' defence. This means that Norwegian defence companies are dependent on exports to survive. Then it's our responsibility to create the best possible framework conditions, so that they can achieve the goal we've set. In this room, you act the other way around. The conclusions reached by the Riksrevision under point 1.1 are entirely without reference to the realities of the market. They relate to a world that doesn't exist. They relate to a world where Norway can make its own decisions without having consequences. The National Audit Board treats this matter as if the world has remained silent. In Chapter 1.1.2, the Riksrevision claims that land assessments are not sufficiently up-to-date. It may be correct, but what is certain is that the Riksrevision is not up to date. The criticism presented is out of date, unrealistic and naive. The defence industry is evolving. Technology is evolving. Multi-use technology is spreading, and it does it every day. A technology cannot be assessed, weighed or measured in isolation. It works in accordance with other technologies. You'd have to call this multi-use technologies, but it's much more complicated. An advanced weapon system is composed of various advanced components which alone cannot be defined as a weapon technology but which, together with other components, can be assembled into a subsystem capable of constituting the backbone of a larger weapon system. There is therefore no point in pointing to single technologies today. Nanotechnology is not defence technology. Nevertheless, it may be an important technology for developing materials essential to a defence system. Drone technology is not isolated as a defence technology, but it can be developed to be an important weapon in war, technology can also be used as GPS, HD cameras or radio links. When does a drone turn into a weapon? Is it when components are assembled? Is that when it becomes an offensive weapon? Is it when it brings with it material that you want to use in a war? Is it the drone that is the weapon, or is it what the drone carries? Or is it the use of the technology to define export opportunities? And how will the Riksrevision then differentiate between A's material and B's material? 20 years ago, I was involved in designing the framework of the export legislation for the Norwegian defence industry. This was done in parallel with the establishment of the nine areas of activity of the defence industry, priority areas for the establishment of repurchase agreements or industrial cooperation agreements. What I learned at the time is that the export code is always out of date because bureaucrats like myself don't have the opportunity to follow technological developments. Neither does the Riksrevision. This is why the Riksrevision is based on vision and theoretical desktop exercises. A Norwegian state-of-the-art defence industry company gets new owners, and then the premise for exports is brand new. Then the cards are dealt again. An advanced defence industry is totally dependent on exports to survive. A foreign purchase will make it possible to raise capital for growth, and it will open new markets. As a consequence, it will be impossible for enterprises to deal with export legislation that sees the Norwegian defence industry from a national perspective. A no to an export licence application is no longer a single delivery. It can have far greater consequences. If a foreign owner learns that Norwegian authorities refuse export licence applications to countries to which other countries find it unproblematic to sell, the owner can take the technology and the company and move abroad in the natural sense. This is serious. I know that today is a supplier of a weapon system that has got a contract, and if Norway stops it, this company, owned by another company, will take the technology out of Norway and establish it. Then we lose technology, jobs and what is absolutely necessary to create jobs. In this case, it applies to the districts. I hope the Minister for Foreign Affairs will not allow that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6523	I want to start by thanking the case spokesman for a good cooperation. I can sign her article and fully support it. The Norwegian defence industry is an important industry. He prays for jobs in the districts and for export income for the country. The defence industry is also important for the preparedness of our allies. Therefore, the defence industry needs confidence and long-term, sustainable framework conditions. We have an export control to ensure that the defence industry gets the framework conditions it needs. Export controls shall ensure that Norway complies with the international agreements governing trade in weapons and other defence equipment. We are required to make these agreements. The Police Security Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Customs Office shall cooperate in administering the export control legislation. The report we are now handling shows that they are not doing this properly. The main object of the Riksrevision is that the system we have for the export control of strategic goods is not effective enough as a cure to prevent illegal exports. When the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deals with export licence issues, the procedures are not good enough to ensure that Storting's representatives are taken care of. PST prioritises the prevention work too low. The customs tariff controls too few exports. Cooperation between control bodies is lacking in the information exchange system. The report suggests that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has opened up the hall of defence material on a base that is too poor. This needs to be corrected by your country needs an effective export control. I am surprised that the government fraction in this setting does not support Riksrevision's assessments. Of course, you can find arguments that make each individual task a little better than the Riksrevision writes. The point is that the health isn't working well enough. The National Auditorate is the Supervisory Body of Storting. The National Audit Office reports that the administration will take good care of the decisions we make here in the Chamber. I think the Riksrevision in this report has made good judgements and made a wise weight between two different points of view: on the one hand, the consideration of the Storting's wish for a living defence industry, and, on the other hand, the consideration of the international code of trade in weapons. Then it is the task of Stortingen to support his own control body. There has also been a discussion about the publication of classified material in this matter. We need to protect the country's interests in the management of classified information, but we need to make sure that the information is classified only when it is necessary, so that the public debate is as enlightened as possible. We can't have a rating because it's the most legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6542	This is a very important report, with both serious and highly critical findings on Norwegian arms exports. Norway will not allow the sale of weapons and ammunition to areas where there is war, or war threatens. The export of weapons and ammunition must take place only after careful consideration, including a number of policy issues, including issues relating to democratic rights and respect for fundamental human rights. This is the decision of the Storting from 1959 and 1997. The government has assured the Storting that there is no information to suggest that Norwegian strategic products have been used in Yemen for exports to countries such as the Emirates. It was last repeated in the Export Control Communication, presented in June 2020, despite the concerns of a number of international civil society organisations. However, the Riksrevision finds that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' proceedings on export licences do not provide sufficient assurance that the Stortingen's assumptions are followed up, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not met enough of the Stortingen's preconditions for thorough ex ante assessments, and that this should be the main safeguard against Norwegian material ports being diverted. The National Audit Service considers it to be serious. In many cases, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has opened the way for the sale of defence equipment to countries on too poor a basis, which the Riksrevision believes is highly critical, and there is an insufficient basis for decision-making on the export of defence equipment to the United Arab Emirates – to name just a few. Overall, the Riksrevision states that the study shows significant weaknesses at all stages of the export control, from the treatment of the export licence application to the control of the export of the product itself. The study finds examples of goods likely to be subject to the licensing obligation being exported without a licence. In addition, there are examples of some licences being used for exports to countries not included in the licence in question. The National Audit Office also shows that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ response to the follow-up is not in line with the report. The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that licence applications are carefully assessed, but the study shows many cases where the assessment is not even provided in writing. The Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that there is sufficient basis for decision-making to assess the relevance of the 1959 Decision to the decision to allow arms and ammunition to be exported to the Emirates, whereas the Riksrevision therefore finds that that assessment was in reality only a short, internal e-mail in the ministry. The Minister of Foreign Affairs says that defence materials from Norway should only meet the Emirates' own defence needs and not be used in Yemen, but the Riksrevision notes that it does not agree with the Ministry's own risk assessment. We already know, from a previous export report, that the Emirates have passed material on to groups operating in Yemen. So what are we left with after this study from the Riksrevision? Serious errors and deficiencies in export control mean that there is a significant risk that Norwegian defence equipment will be used in war, despite government insurance, and that is a scandal. There is something SV has warned about and addressed with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and in the processing of export control messages several times. Finally, it is very unfortunate that we now have another case in which the government chooses to rate security and keep secret important findings for the public. It acts as a cooling-down of the public debate, and it also deprives the Supervisory Authorities of authority when it happens against their recommendation, as in this case. That is why SV has been working for upgrading through the channels that Stortinget has. That's the right method for that. We stand for the legitimate way to do it and will also warn against a trend in which more and more of these matters are classified, and the secret team is spreading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6557	Norwegian politicians often speak loudly about human rights and democracy in other countries. After all, when a dictatorship went to war against a defenceless civilian population, the government would react. I'm talking about the war against the people of Yemen, where the coalition led by the United States and NATO's close ally Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates kill civilians every day. They kill children, women and men in large numbers, both through direct bombing and through an inhuman military blockade that prevents the introduction of food and medicine into a starving population. The government of Erna Solberg has reacted in a way. But so it reacted to reward these warriors, especially the United Arab Emirates, by multiplying the export of Norwegian munitions of war after they started the ruthless warfare. Last year, the Riksrevision delivered its report on the control of exports of Norwegian military equipment. It was found that the government is systematically willing to ensure adequate control of arms exports. In addition, the Evening Post has revealed annexes to the National Audit Office's report that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would keep secret, according to her, for the sake of national security. But the content of the document leaves no doubt: it is the foreign minister’s completely irresponsible arms export policy and misuse of secrecy that could harm the security of the state, not the Evening Post revelations. The 1959 decision that we should not export military material to countries where there is war, civil war or where war threatens has been set aside. The government has given consideration to earnings and US-all dictatorships in front of the consideration of millions of innocents affected by their brutal warfare. However, the leaked document reveals that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has known more about the risk that Norwegian military material could be used for civilian or further export to terrorist groups than she has expressed to the Stortinget. Several times Red has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs questions about arms exports, and time and again she has replied to give a false assurance that the export that was going on was safe. Now is the time to act. No decision can bring back the victims of the war in Yemen, to which the West has actively contributed, and it will take time to get our country out of the international shame hook that the Solberg government has put us in. But the vast majority, the majority of the world's states, do not reward warring dictatorships with war equipment, as this government has done. Nor does Norway have to do this — if we adopt a proposal to close the loopholes that this government has thus created to justify exports to warring authoritarian regimes. We support the SV's proposals in this matter. So I would particularly like to point out our proposal to investigate the understanding of war. Both the Labour Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have given signals that they must at least be willing to consider going back to a slightly more decent arms export policy. Now is the time to show it in practice. All we're asking is to stop exporting war equipment to warring totalitarian regimes, reconsider the artificial distinction between so-called A- and B-materials in the legislation, make sure Norway stops breaking the UN arms trade agreement, and say no to Norwegian arms export offices in countries like the United Arab Emirates. The option to clean up now is to continue making money to contribute to humanitarian disasters and to kill innocents. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6582	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6587	The National Audit Office's report has given us several useful recommendations and reminders, and I agree with several of the report's conclusions and take the criticism seriously. As of 2018, various measures have already been put in place in the Ministry to ensure good management of the export control legislation. We are well in the process of developing a new and more efficient electronic licence processing system, the E-licence, which will help to ensure the written and traceability of the procedure in a good way, and even better follow-up of licensing conditions. We are also continuing to review historical country clearances, as we have done since 2018, in order to ensure an even better written basis for decision-making. We will also continue to work to further strengthen national cooperation, and we are working with the Ministry of Finance in particular to find solutions to integrate the E-licence with the customs declaration system, TVINN. Cooperation is already good, as the National Audit Office points out, but it is important to have good tools for interaction. There are some conclusions in which I have said that I believe the Riksrevision may not have fully seen the relationship between two different parts of the proceedings. One is the land clearance, which is just the first step on the way to a possible license. It is that a country must be on that list in order for a licence to be considered at all. Then an assessment of the licence application itself is based on the type of material it is, etc., but it is also that we regularly reject licences, even to countries that are initially cleared for export. Then came a lot of accusations – especially in the last post, from Red – that cannot be contradicted. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that since December 2017, the government has not allowed arms and ammunition to be exported to the United Arab Emirates. The government has never allowed arms and ammunition to be exported to Saudi Arabia, and that means that we are not exporting weapons and ammunition to the United Arab Emirates today. This was one of the first decisions I made as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and it was after the government had already withheld an export in 2016, precisely because of the unbridled situation. The decision I made was a precautionary measure, because the situation was inconclusive. It's not because we had information that Norwegian material would have gone off to Yemen. Nor is it that the UN reports or the National Audit Office say that there is that kind of information. Where we've met claims that this has happened, we've examined it thoroughly, because we're taking it very seriously. No one wants Norwegian weapons or material to be balanced for use in Yemen. So there's a question of grading an attachment. We've been very concerned that the Riksrevision should have all the information, all the assessments and all the background. They have received and used that in their report. It has also been given to Stortinget, and the graduated attachment is of course also attached to Stortinget. It has been in Stortinget since February, and we believe that this is also important for Storting's handling of the matter. So that means that everyone who wants the information has had the information all the way around. It has also been important for us to stress that all the main conclusions, all the criticisms, were presented in the report that is unupgraded, so there's nothing materially different, but that's the compilation of the information that requires grading. It is also important to stress that, with regard to the issues related to the United Arab Emirates assessments, the Riksrevision also confirms in its report that all the key and relevant criteria have been assessed, inter alia. the human rights situation, the risk of internal repression and the risk of violations of humanitarian law in the war in Yemen. All licence applications have been dealt with carefully according to the guidelines, but there are several points the Riksrevision points out that are important to address. The ministry has done the same. I believe it is important to continue to follow up export controls in a good way, because it is a complex issue. We now have on the stairs the annual roll-out notice on the export of defence equipment. It comes, as usual, in the second quarter, and it will provide several opportunities to discuss the whole of Norwegian export control.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6610	As usual, there has been some correspondence between the Committee and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also written a very comprehensive response to the Riksrevision. One of the questions asked by the Committee was that we had information from the Statistical Central Bureau that strategic products were exported for 8 million in 2020. kr to United Arab Emirates. Then the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘This system has been developed for customs and charging purposes, not for export control and international non-proliferation obligations. It is therefore difficult for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to comment on the SSB figures in concrete terms. [[...]] The Council of State mentions in its contribution that good work is being done on the E-licence and TVINN. Can she say a little more about the status of that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6620	It is important to point out that in that answer I also wrote that we are now working on the quality-assured figures, and that they come in the big message that is being submitted now in the second quarter. We've been very busy finding a good way to integrate the E-licence and TV-INN – preferably, if we get it done. We want to continue with more of what the Riksrevision took random checks, because there seems to be relatively good consistency between the two data. We want to further develop and do more of that, and we now want to get on the offer in a very short time an opportunity for integration. We are in the process of implementing the e-licensing system, but the possibility of integration with the T.O.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.E.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.T.N.N.N.T.N.N.N.N.T.N.N.N.T.N.N.N.T.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.N.M.D.D.N.N.M.D.N.N.M.N.M.M.D.N.M.D.N.M.M.M.D.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6627	I thank you for the answer; I am very interested in this. The National Audit Office writes in its report that if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had had access to customs data, the Ministry would have more opportunity to detect such breaches of the terms of the licence. Is it about accessing the data that the customs office has, or is it about building up a new system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6632	We have a very good cooperation with the customs office today, but our point of proposing and trying to achieve integration is that we should be able to do this more efficiently and to the extent even safer, i.e. we have the data more in real time. This is always the case – and the representative is well aware of this after working with export control messages for many rounds – that the figures coming in also need to be quality-proof, because all exporters have an obligation to declare their actual and real exports. That is why we also deal with the wholesale notifications with the export figures for one year back in time, because these figures need quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6639	The defence industry is in a process where there is still cross-border ownership. That is, a Norwegian defence company can be bought up by, let me say, a German company, for example. Then you want to export to a country to which Norway does not want to grant a licence, and then the German company says that they subtract Norwegian technology from it initially because they own this company. Then a few hundred jobs are lost, top technology disappears, and district jobs disappear. But nevertheless, the exact same material is exported to the country to which we did not want it to be exported. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see this paradox, or is it the most important thing to be principled, even if it does not get any benefits for the country you allegedly wanted to help?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6644	We are concerned with predictability for industry. That is why we have strict legislation that is also predictable. This means that industry is regularly informed of both the rules, the countries to which export can be exported, what to expect from licences, and what to expect to be rejected. There will always be export legislation in the country from which the product is being exported, which will apply. It intervenes to a large extent in the first point of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, namely that parts and components sold in different forms will be subject to export control in the country from which the finished product is exported. So is Norway. All countries, like the representative and I have discussed earlier, have their export control legislation, based on political decisions taken by parliament and government. This is precisely why it is also the case in the Norwegian context that we can only allow exports and licences to the countries to which we have opened up exports.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6651	That's to look at it from a very narrow national perspective, because the cross-ownership makes a Norwegian company owned by a foreign company. If the Norwegian enterprise does not receive this licence application, the foreign owner will take the competence of the enterprise – the workplaces of that enterprise and the technology of that enterprise – and move it to the country from which it comes, or another country that accepts exports to the country we refuse. Then that country gets exactly what they want, but we lose hundreds of jobs, technology, etc. You can be predictable when you say that, but it doesn't matter to those who lose their jobs and the technology that disappears. Isn't it better to look at this in a broader perspective, so instead of sitting on our national tue, we realize that there are international consequences of what we're doing? We're a tiny little country, a relatively small industry, while other countries are bigger, and we're going to buy up the big companies elsewhere. Kongsberg and Nammo are state owned, that's okay, but it doesn't apply to other companies. Does the Foreign Minister see paradox in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6658	To draw that out completely, Norway would neither need nor have its own export control rules. I think it's the wrong policy. I believe that each country must have its export control rules, and that must be close international cooperation, as it is. However, it is the case that each country has to assess and decide how the export control of strategic products is to be carried out from this country. It is also the case that when companies have strict legislation to deal with, it is also important that this predictability allows them to know at all times – and in advance – what they can expect to obtain licences and what they cannot expect to obtain licences for. In fact, it is also stated in Section 22 of the Export Control Regulation that even if a contract has been concluded for which a licence has not been granted, it will therefore be the licence that is essential, and not the company’s consideration in that case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6665	I thank you for the answer, but there is actually no answer. For those who lose their jobs, and the technology that disappears, this becomes a bureaucratic game. What's important in this case is that it's 6-7 billion. NOK and there are 4000 to 5000 jobs. This is B material, which has so far received no, and this is the consequence. That is to say, of course, that this German company is taking the technology from the company and from Germany or other countries that accept exports, because this is a huge deal. Then we are left with the principles of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Norwegian Government, while the weapon system itself is taken out of Norway and comes to the country to which it is going, and the technology disappears, and the workplaces disappear. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that paradox, or is it most important to have legislation that does not matter at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6670	It is if one were to draw the consequences of Tybring-Gjedde's reasoning that the export control rules would not mean anything at all. It may be that the representative doesn't like the answer, but it's just as full an answer. I'm not going to stand here in the storeroom and handle export controls, which I have a feeling the representative would like me to do. There is therefore a broad consensus in the Storting on the export control code we have, that it should be strict and predictable, and that we should build a viable Norwegian defence industry. I also feel that we have. I also feel that the companies that are in Norway, whether they are Norwegian companies or they are foreign companies that have bought up Norwegian companies, feel that the framework that is there is something they relate to, and that they are committed to following that legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6678	The government, as I mentioned in my main post, has assured the Stortinget that there is no information to suggest that Norwegian strategic products have been used in Yemen in the context of exports to the Emirates – despite the reports of civil society, which points out that the Norwegian authorities, through exports to actors participating in the Saudi coalition, pose an unacceptable risk. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been so clear in his assurances to the Storting repeatedly, was she not familiar with the circumstances that the Riksrevision criticises in this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6685	There are matters that lie before my time as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but let me go a little deeper into this question. Both in today’s debate and elsewhere, claims are often made that both civil society and others regularly report the existence of this type of information. We received information in January 2018 that there was an individual who provided information that could indicate that parts or residues of Norwegian material were found in Yemen. We imitated it both through the embassy, through our international delegations and through interviews and meetings with the individual himself, and so no one could verify that those claims were true, nor the individual who made them. But we took it very seriously, and we persecuted it. It is also not that the United Nations reports or other reports have produced that kind of information. I've never said that one can guard against it by one hundred percent, but based on the information we have, what we've examined, and what's in reports, we don't have that kind of information. Should it change, that there will be information, of course, we'll be the first to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6694	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6699	I would first like to state that the undesirable spread of multi-use products and sensitive technologies with possible safety consequences is not desirable. In order to prevent this, good interaction between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the customs office and the PST is important. The customs office of export control is responsible for the control of goods exported from the Norwegian customs territory and for compliance with the applicable legislation. The establishment is thus responsible for the declaration and document control and post-control of exporters after export. I have noted the comments and recommendations of the National Audit Office. I have explained to the National Audit Office how the Ministry of Finance will follow up the conclusions and recommendations on the customs tariff. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Finance ensure that the customs duty rate strengthens the control of exports of strategic goods. I can inform you that the customs office has already implemented several measures in the period after the Riksrevisions have been examined, which together have strengthened the control. The customs tariff includes, inter alia: structured control activities, supported by intelligence and by differentiation of measures between control methods, sanctioning methods, guidance and prevention. In addition, training for employees has been reinforced and several employees have access to the U.D. E licensing system. The tariff rate has also been reorganised from regions to nationwide professional divisions, and specialised organisational units with national responsibilities have been established. The new organisation facilitates a common approach and a uniform level of control across the country. The customs tariff has also planned several measures, including: development of tools in the TVINN declaration system. In addition, the theme of Norwegian exports, including strategic goods, is one of the areas which has increased priority in the national control priorities of the customs tariff for 2021. I would like to point out that the customs office enforces the legislation of some twenty other public authorities and has many control areas that need to be taken care of. The level of control of exports of strategic goods is, according to the customs office, very similar to that of other control areas in the department. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the number of checks is not the only relevant criterion for assessing the work of the customs office on export control of strategic goods. For example, precise control sampling, good risk assessments and guidance measures that may increase regulatory compliance are also relevant for inclusion in the assessment. The national audit concludes that cooperation between official control actors is good, but that lack of information exchange systems makes export control less effective. It should be noted, inter alia, that: that there is no link between the licensing system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs E-licences and TVINN, the customs declaration system of the customs office. I refer there to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' posts that refer to the work done to achieve good integration. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Finance jointly ensure that measures are taken to facilitate the more effective sharing of information between the control systems. This is a work that has been started, where there is now good work between the floors. The Ministry of Finance will follow up on the fact that the customs tariff continues to strengthen the control of exports of strategic goods and improve the TVINN declaration system, in order to improve data quality and control more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6720	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6725	Thanks to the Council of State for a thorough report and also for a thorough response both to the National Audit Office and to the Committee. I think the Minister of Finance is offensive, and I suggest that there is a great deal of work going on, among other things. within the customs territory to which he refers. The last thing he said in his post was that the customs office is now strengthening the control of strategic goods, and there are obviously some reorganisations. Then my question is that this must cost a little. It must require some resources to start such a great deal of work, so I wonder if the Council of State can say little about the status of the resource situation. Is the resources available enough, or will this trigger an increased need?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6732	Of course, it's a good question of whether resources are proportionate to the tasks to be solved. My clear view is that the customs office is doing these tasks in a good way, and that the reorganisation that has been carried out also makes better use of the resources that you have. When you have nationwide divisions, it's easier both to get an equal follow-up and more efficient use of resources. So the customs department works well with this – with professionalisation, with training and with data quality – and it is a good cooperation between the departments and the departments that is responsible for this. But the Riks revision has been clear in its recommendations, and we are working intently to follow up these.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6737	Just a small question: The Minister of Finance writes in response to the Riksrevision – is it? – that he takes on the recommendation that he should take responsibility for coordinating the various control bodies. Can he say what is the status of that work? I get a little worried when there are different versions of what things have been like, and how you've been going to attack it. The Minister mentioned that he should use the governance dialogue actively, including: to theirs. How does he think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6742	It is true that I have pointed it out in the letter, and the Committee also points out that there is a work under way to correct the shortcomings raised by the Riksrevision. We make good use of our governance vis-à-vis the customs office, both through letters of allocation and through the dialogue that is. There has been a lot of public attention around this. The Tolletate itself has taken up the work, and as I pointed out, it has done a significant job for improvements even after the Riksaudition made its recommendations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6747	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6754	I believe that the failure in political judgment about the arms sale to the Emirates and the failure in control of Norwegian arms exports that the Riksrevision has uncovered and criticised deserves the word ‘candal’ to be used. It is totally unsustainable that sales to countries that participated in the Yemen War were not stopped, and the National Audit Office report reveals a failure that the Storting cannot fail to follow up. So there are superficial and not up-to-date assessments, and there is no follow-up. The assumption of thorough ex-ante assessments of the size of the size to avoid the risk of Norwegian material ports is not followed up well enough. The government has for years said that there is a strict pre-war line in the countries that are fighting in Yemen. The report shows that this is not the case. The policy has simply not been in line with the spirit of Storting’s 1959 arms export decision. The exports to the Emirates should obviously have been stopped, most recently when the country entered the war in Yemen. It was a very important change of direction when the export of A-materials was stopped late in 2017, but it is still amazing that the government has allowed the export of other war equipment to the Emirates in the following years. And no one can say that they were not warned. Redd Barna and Changemaker have repeatedly shown that there is legitimate suspicion that Norwegian material may have been used in Yemen. Despite that, we have repeatedly received reassuring words, which in November 2017 SV once again proposed to stop the export, or in October last year, when I challenged the Minister of Foreign Affairs. She could then tell that all suspicions were followed up. The contrast to the Riksrevision conclusion on the uncertainty about Norwegian material in Yemen is striking. The conclusion must be that the Size must take more control. Therefore, this evening SV proposes, firstly, a halt in all exports of military equipment to countries taking part in the war in Yemen, and, secondly, the establishment of a public body to carry out an overall review of the Norwegian export control regime and, thirdly, an independent review of exports of strategic products to the countries participating in the Yemen war. SV has repeatedly promoted such proposals, on stop in all exports and investigations, and the majority has been overwhelming. Now I hope this changes. So several parties join in the setting of the Riksrevision's strong criticism of the government. That criticism must have some consequences. It'll be disappointing, I think, if parties that say they agree with the criticism, don't now do more to follow it up. That is why I would strongly urge those parties who take seriously the criticism of the Riksrevision to join our three proposals tonight. – With that, I would like to address the three proposals that SV has made. Then I would like to make a brief explanation of vote: SV will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 from the Red, but against proposal No. 4, which we have previously put forward a proposal that addresses the same issue, but which we believe is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6770	The representative Lysbakken then brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6775	I refer first to the case rapporteur's, the representative of Hansen, the review and to the comments of which the Workers' Party is part in the vote, and I agree with this. We've had this discussion many times in other contexts. Then the Workers' Party has always established, and so do I here, that we need the defence industry. It is important for our defence, it is important for jobs, and it is also important for technology development. I'm just saying this. So I say, well, we have our rules. On the basis of this will, the size has said that this industry, because it is so sensitive and special, must have its rules. The discussions we have had in the past come in a different light when we read the Riksaudition report, I have to say. Because what the Riksrevision in general does, and I've actually read this very carefully, is that it puts us in doubt whether the rules are being complied with as the Storting really wants – it puts us in doubt. It was a doubt I wish we didn't have. In addition – and I have been directly involved in this – I have heard the foreign minister’s assurances that the rules are being complied with, in many contexts and especially in the context of Yemen and the Emirates. In this short article, I can only say that it will be necessary for the Workers' Party to pay attention to this in the time to come. A consciousness of what is the balance and spirit of the provisions of the Great Britain will be necessary. Maybe it has to be that the slightest doubt must lead to no and not lead to yes. Finally, I would say that no one should be able to tell me that I do not support the Security Act – no one should be able to say that. But at the same time, I would like to say now with a very clear address to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it will be used to protect Norwegian interests. And the Minister of Foreign Affairs should think through the fact that when both the Riksrevision and the Stortinget believe that the report relating to this matter can be published, there should be a basis for reflection in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on whether the Stortinget and the Riksrevision are also able to think about the Security Act in a relevant way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6788	I almost don't know where to start. I understand that people taking the floor in this Chamber are very concerned that Norway is granting licences to companies that sell weapons or defence equipment to countries or territories, etc. We don't accept. But if we look at the realities, it doesn't matter at all what we mean in this room. The weapons are exported to these countries anyway. All this means is that our own self-image gets better. When a company that is Norwegian is bought up by a foreign owner who is trying to obtain a licence from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then gets no, the owner of this company, who is then a foreign company, takes out this company, technology and jobs. It does not help that the representative Kolberg says that they are for the jobs of the defence industry, when the workplaces actually disappear because of the export legislation he defends. So it's not related. If we are in favour of a defence industry, we must defend a defence industry, not set up our own national legislation when the consequence is that our technology disappears and goes somewhere else and the material is exported to the country to which we do not want to export. It's not related. Now we have to take this seriously. They say we have a defence industry, and the minister talks about a broad consensus. Yes, of course it's a broad consensus. It says the Foreign Minister every single time she has nothing else to say. It's a broad consensus. But right at this point I actually have some competence; sometimes people will say that I don't have it. This point I've been working on my whole life -- in this business -- and I know what I'm talking about. I also know that the National Audit Office is not doing its job. The National Audit Office does not have the technological competence to understand how defence technology works. You have to take that into account, of course, but you can think for yourself, too, that's legal, fortunately. The product I'm talking about now, the export licence application, of B-material, was accepted in 2017, and then the foreign minister says that predictability is important. Either predictability is important to continue what was done in 2017, or it is not important. At least the contract I'm talking about is worth $6 billion–7 billion. SEK, 4000–5000 jobs. Nevertheless, the principle is that we do not accept it, and then the whole company is taken out of Norway and put in another country. Technology disappears, and the country we want to protect that would not get that technology – they get it anyway. The only thing is that our self-image gets better. The war continues as before, they use exactly what they want, and it doesn't get any better. The same thing when we sell to the United States -- it's clear that the United States uses the material they need in exactly that conflict or in the exact place they want to be. It's a truth. Then you could say that we still have our own export code. We have to have that, but it has no effect, no consistency, except for the self-image in here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6799	Yes, it has a consequence. Our own export control legislation is such that licences are required for the transfer of technology and the transfer of production rights. You can't just take it with you. If the aim is to circumvent the export control code, you will not receive a licence. Yes, it has a bearing on our own export control legislation. I'm not going to help prolong the debate, but just answer a few things that came up. Firstly, through the annual export control notifications, we have also highlighted the points surrounding the United Arab Emirates from the past in connection with their inclusion in this coalition at the invitation of the Yemeni authorities. It was highlighted in the Storing Communication that came in 2015, and it has commented, but has not mentioned it as a breach of any line in these comments. I fully agree with what Mr Kolberg said about the fact that the slightest doubt should lead to no and no. That's also how it's practiced. That is why in December 2017, I put an end to the licensing of A-materials and suspended valid licences for A-materials to the United Arab Emirates. That is also the background for my predecessor, Børge Brende, in 2016 withholding material that was already licensed and approved. When there is no reasonable degree of security, it must be said that it is also part of the predictability of enterprises. We have this dialogue with the companies, so they know that it's the situation at the time of licensing that's going to apply. In conclusion, this is also the case, as I mentioned in my reply to the representative of Hövstegård, that if we receive claims that Norwegian material should have gone astray, either in Yemen or elsewhere, in violation of the legislation and the licence, we will investigate it thoroughly. We have done that in this case, after we received a specific enquiry about it. Then you can continue to repeat that it is a legitimate suspicion at any time, or that it is at any time an organisation that believes they have information about this, but when we investigate and neither through our own investigations, UN reports, nor the National Audit Office can prove that this has happened, you have to think at some point that then you can't continue to argue as if this is happening in the day-to-day. We're going to continue to have strict control, and as I said, we haven't exported any weapons or ammunition to the United Arab Emirates since December 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6810	Yes, when the Minister of Foreign Affairs contributed to the extension of the debate, the issue has not been that it was secret that Norwegian exports went to the countries involved in Yemen. On the contrary, it was well-known and well-discussed. What's why we have this extra round is, of course, the clear criticism that has come from the Riksrevision, also related to this specific export and the uncertainty and lack of control that the Riksrevision points out about it. It shows that the warnings that have been issued over several years have been justified, that the government should have had better control and obviously, in my view, should have stopped the export at a long earlier date. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should be commended for her intervention in 2017, as opposed to the predecessor, but also criticism, we believe, that the export of B-materials has continued. And this is important, because there should not be uncertainty about the government taking seriously the criticism that comes from the Riksrevision. Then the question is, what do you want to do to improve this? Should a teaching for the future, one must be willing to look back and say: Yes, here it is done wrong, here things have happened that should never happen – and then draw lessons from it. Here I believe – without any real hope that it will happen immediately – that the Foreign Minister could have admitted that the opposition, or rather we should say parts of the opposition, especially SV, has been very right over several years in the criticism we have given the government. Then I'll give in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6817	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6834	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6851	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6858	In this proposal, the central party wishes to oblige the government to investigate how the secrecy and lack of democracy in EU legislative bodies affect the laws and regulations applicable in Norway, Norwegian citizens and Norwegian interests. Thank you to the Cooperation Committee for clarifying the matter. Surely no one claims that the democratic processes of the European Union are perfect. The EU bodies themselves have taken self-criticism on this, recently stronger than ever. The EU bodies are constantly working to ensure transparency and democratic participation in their political processes, as described by our Foreign Minister in his reply to the matter. Every country and international cooperation between countries must continuously improve and maintain their democratic structures and practices — yes, even Norway must. It's surprising that the Center Party wants to use tax dollars and consultants on an investigation to find out what we already know about measures and improvements. For 25 years the EEA Agreement has been very important and has served Norwegian business throughout the country. Norway has good democratic mechanisms for the implementation and control of decisions resulting from the agreement, involving the Centre Party and other parties. I also notice that the Centre Party and SV add up to a modified proposal that aims at how Norway treats these matters. It's more constructive. It looks like SV has managed to tame the Center Party, interesting enough. We allow ourselves in the setting to give the Centre Party a penalty for a break in style in the form of Stortinget – not criticism of content and meaning. It is a worthy tradition in our national Parliament to strive for factual, neutral headlines on matters for consideration, including representatives’ proposals. We see that the Central Party in its case title focuses on the matter by selecting an activist electoral campaign rhetoric as a headline. Shouldn't wear the Senter party. The government parties have different views on Norwegian EU membership and on the EU as a contractual partner, but welcome the EU's work on increasing transparency and democratic participation. We have noticed in the spring that, on the initiative of the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the European Union is setting up the conference for the future of Europe, where democracy and institutional conditions are at the heart of it. In particular, it appears that the proposers are trying to demonstrate the EU and produce EU countries as poor administrators of their democracy. It is both premature and little strategic in view of the need for Norway to have a good dialogue with our best and biggest trading partner, regardless of the initial view of the European Union and the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6873	I have to admit that we have also reflected a little on what can be implied by our own characteristics and highly questionable claims and statements about the reality of a Document 8 proposal. We've seen an elusive ride of such suggestions in the fall, and you've probably been hurt by, in addition to evading any case preparation and consequential thinking, breaking ever new barriers, where part of this reminds me more of a bit of extreme statements from a student community where you're going to sort things out in the world. I want to distance myself from the problem itself, because it is not correctly described. If you follow the EU – and I think some from the Central Party sometimes do – for purposes other than finding arguments against international cooperation, you will just see that the democratic institutions have been expanded, that democratic processes are being opened up. Unless a country is believed to be completely isolated, we must remember that the alternative to multilateral order and a regulated world is to leave international law to bilateral forums where it is the power and negotiating positions between the states that decide on the outcome. Obligatory and long-term EU cooperation is precisely what makes large countries subject to common rules. There are also courts and dispute resolution bodies dealing with the conventional issues of contract law between countries. It is also explained in more detail in the letter of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is how we have a European legal system, we have common rules based on democratic countries, because they have agreed to solve common cross-border problems together. Without the EU, we would not have had the opportunity to do so, for example. to determine what the EU has done with regard to the Paris Agreement, which is, for the rest of the world, an international convention. Only the EU has made this legally binding on its Member States, etc. Then we can take the institution and ask if the center party really wants to do without it. If they want to do without legal proceedings at a European level, they'll be fine without the Lugano Convention, and they'll be fine without all the institutions like that. The United Kingdom now finds out that they could really want to be part of it? The UK's policy of reporting out has also been that they did not get out the potential they themselves thought they should have as a major force, while in reality European cooperation is the committed cooperation of the small countries that binds up the big ones. Norway would also be involved if we wanted to participate in democratic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6888	Let's stick to the case. The heading is based on the fact that the EU's own bodies point to the lack of secrecy and democracy in the EU. As long as Norway is bound by EEA rules and gets imported rules through the EEA Agreement, Norway is affected by the lack of democracy and the secrecy. So the question is how much and how does it happen? That's why we've proposed an investigation. The Central Party believes on a principle basis that it is the Norwegian people who will decide in Norway. That principle is constantly being challenged by the EEA Agreement, where we are just importing a number of laws and regulations on which Norway has not had a real democratic influence. The democratic deficit is reinforced when the EU itself is built up in a fundamentally undemocratic way, and when EU legislative bodies are criticised, among other things. ombudsman of the European Union. The European Parliament has itself adopted criticisms that the citizens of the Union do not have a transparent democracy where it is possible for them to influence decisions taken. The parties at Stortinget have very different views on the EU and Norwegian EU membership. The centre party is very aware that the government wants to work for a Norwegian EU membership, with a majority of EU-friendly parties, Right and Left, who are in government, but it is a pity that the Norwegian government cannot attend a debate on the EU's internal problems and instead wander far beyond the other things, as the representative Tetzschner did. Because it is the case that the European Ombudsman and the European Parliament themselves point to a lack of transparency, meetings that go for closed doors, secret minutes and processes that had not lived up to Norwegian standards of democracy and transparency. When this happens and is what underlies much of the law we get from the EU, I think it is a problem that Norway should take the most seriously, including the government. The centre party thinks it's serious. It also has the consequence that there is little public debate on precisely these issues – how the laws of the European Union become and how it affects Norway. This is why we have proposed to investigate how Norway is affected by secrecy and lack of democracy in the EU, and also how Norwegian authorities can facilitate a more transparent and democratic process in the treatment of EEA-relevant laws and regulations. I'll take up our suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6901	The representative Emilie Enger Mehl then drew up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6906	That was almost the turn of this debate from the very beginning! I think it is important to have both transparency, public debate and a critical searchlight on how political decisions and legislation are made. This is true in the EU, and it is true in Norway. However, I strongly disagree with the rapporteurs' claim that there are hidden structures of power, and that the EU system is fundamentally undemocratic – or, as the representative, Mr Mehl, just said: it is built up in a fundamentally undemocratic way, and that it is not possible to influence decisions taken. This is with respect to reporting wrong. We'd like to have a different view of the question, but I think we need to have similar facts. Firstly, according to the draft representative, much of the real power in the European Union lies with the Commission and not with the Council or Parliament. It is quite wrong and a claim that I believe needs to be corrected. The powers of the Commission are strictly regulated in the Treaties and, to put it mildly, there is little swirling. The Commission has the right of initiative, but the decisions themselves are taken by the Council and Parliament. Then you can go into a long discussion about the more institutional aspects of this. I'm not going to do that now, just grab some of the things that were said about lack of transparency. Much of the criticism of lack of transparency is directed towards the Council, which is made up of governments in the Member States. Although several EU Member States have been rather reluctant, it has become more common in recent years that there are open sections of Council meetings. At the same time, it is worth considering, when criticising the Council for the lack of transparency, that it is also not common for States to conduct international negotiations in full transparency. Neither in the UN, in NATO, nor in the Nordic Council of Ministers, nor does the Norwegian Government at all times. The criticism of the Commission and Parliament, on the other hand, is not really so much about the lack of inclusion or non-transparency, but that it is the larger interest groups that seem to have the opportunity to influence more than the smaller interest groups. In my reply to Stortinget I also write about something I think it is important to bring it with me. It's becoming increasingly transparent. I think that's important; you should, as far as possible, have transparency about decisions. It also shows the institutions of the EU, which have a transparent approach that is very much reminiscent of the Norwegian Public Health Act, because there is a high rate of transparency requests. In 2018, the Commission granted 80 pst. by the requests, the Council 72,2 pst. by requests and Parliament 96 p.m. of the requests for transparency. The number is increasing, and I think it's a positive sign and a positive move. I would also like to join the representative of Tetzschner on the importance of both cooperation with the EU and the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-05-11.ana.ud77e6924	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox Today's map has been processed. Before raising a meeting, do you want to insert any word? - It's not set, and the meeting has been cancelled.
