ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e103	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative Liv Signe Navarsette, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From the meeting of the alternate of Rogaland, Julia Wong, there is an application for exemption from the obligation to meet in Stortinget from 23 February to 25 February under the authority of the representative of Hadia Tajik for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate for Rogaland, Tom Kalsås, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It is also considered to be adopted. In addition, a number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of representatives Kari Henriksen and Ingvild Kjerkol from 23 February onwards and until further notice and from the representative Øystein Langholm Hansen from 23 February until 25 February from the representative of the Bjørna Moxnes on care leave from 23 February until further notice from the representative of Une Bastholm on sick leave from 23 February until further notice from the Socialist Left Group on the welfare permit of the representative of Solfrid Lerbreck for the period from 23 February to 19 April Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternates of Oslo and Nord-Trøndelag, Per Espen Stoknes and Jorid Juliussen Nordmelan respectively, there is an application for a waiver from meeting in Stortinget from 23 February until 25 February under the leave of the representatives of Une Bastholm and Ingvild Kjerkol, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For West Agder: Odd Omland 23-25. February For Oslo: Seher Aydar from 23 February until further notice and Kristoffer Robin Haug 23–25. February For Rogaland: Erik Ludvigsen 23–25. ==References====External links== April For Nord-Trøndelag: Gaute Børstad Skjervø 23-25. February
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e196	Odd Omland, Seher Aydar, Kristoffer Robin Haug, Erik Ludvigsen, Eirik Faret Zechariahsen and Gute Børstad Skjervø are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e203	The President will propose that a President-in-Office be elected for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e210	I will first allow myself to congratulate the Grand President on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e215	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e226	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e232	On behalf of the big business representatives Helge André Njåstad, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Kjell-Børge Freiberg and myself, I will make a proposal to put down the Sametinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e237	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1 to 6 will be treated as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e314	Case No. 1–6 is the second time legal proceedings and concerns legislative acts 67–72. Does anyone ask for the word to these matters? – Then you don’t think so, and the case number. 1–6 has thus been fully debated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e330	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e337	Let me first thank the Committee for good cooperation on an important matter. At the end of January, the government presented a powerful package of measures for jobs, businesses, young people and others particularly affected by the crisis. After intensive work on the financial committee, I am very pleased that the proposals have both received a majority and have been further strengthened through the consideration of the Stortinge. Students and students have lost a lot of valuable education, and many young and newly educated people have challenges in finding a job. Education, more jobs and closer follow-up should help young people not to fall completely outside and become long-term unemployed. That is why I am pleased that a total increase today is adopting the government’s proposal for a total of 2.2 billion. for actions for children, young people and students. Children and young people have paid a high price during the coronary crisis. I'm worried that the coronary crisis can be replaced by a mental health crisis. That's why it's important for us to strengthen the apparatus around those who have an extra hard time right now. So we're going to take 100 million. DKK extra to child and youth psychiatry, 100 million. D to low-threshold community services for those with drug problems and mental health problems under the pandemic and 1 million. kr to Mental Health Youth Chat Service. I hope this will ensure that young people who need to talk to someone in this heavy time, actually get it. Further support is given to the government's proposal of 1.5 million. kr to Mental Health for the establishment and operation of a national student telephone. Norwegian business and everyone who works there is fighting a hard fight. I want them to know we're playing with them. For us it has been valuable to listen to the companies and municipalities, not only in connection with the crisis packages we are dealing with, but also between the battles. I am therefore very pleased that the government parties, together with the Progress Party, are making sure to strengthen the allocations to the municipalities and the compensation system for the companies, and I hope that the money will quickly reach those who need it. Now, after Storting's decision in the first place, it's going to go out 1 billion. kr in the first round. We have 750 million. kr ready for a new round. Let me also make a brief comment on the discussion about ferries. Large parts of the coastal population depend on a good and reasonable ferry service. The government parties are open to considering proposals related to this, but we believe, as we have always said, that this discussion is in ordinary budgets and not in a corona crisis package. Today, the government receives a majority for a large package of powerful measures that will help save jobs, take care of young people and get Norway out of the crisis safely. Right now, it's most important. In view of the wider nature of the measures taken to protect infectious diseases, wider measures are needed. So we're going to compensate more and more for a period of time. We are closely following developments, and the government is going to do what is needed. We've built up economic muscles through generations to resist and cope in difficult times. At the same time, we must avoid sending too much of the bill to future generations. One day we shall be able to welcome better times and reverse the exceptional measures. This will go over, but right now it's most important to keep the wheels going.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e356	I do not know if I should like to thank the Committee for its cooperation, but at least I should like to thank the members of the Committee for their hard work on this matter. The main tasks of the crisis policy we are currently pursuing in the United Kingdom are to ensure security and predictability – the security of workers who have lost their jobs or are outsourced, and predictability of businesses, so that they can secure jobs. On 19 January, the majority in this Chamber made a number of wise decisions against the government's will that will remedy some of the consequences of the crisis for people. The working party is particularly satisfied with 1 billion. for measures for the unemployed and the outsourced. The money is now being put into action for better training and follow-up. No one should be left alone in this crisis, whether you are unemployed and now you have access to training or if you are one of the more and more people who are having mental health problems. Psychiatric health care was completely forgotten in the proposal that came from the government. What Biggest comes together now, will give better help to many. Many have severe problems with insulation and the everyday life during the shut-down. They must not stand alone. We know that this crisis is raging. It was they with the lowest wages who first lost their job, and they were the ones who had already settled ties to the labour market, who labor the most. At least then we have to make sure that crisis policy tries to correct these differences, not to reinforce them. But it is quite obvious that government policy reinforces these differences. Twice last year there was a new cut in the wealth tax that had to be implemented, in the middle of the crisis. At the same time as they receive large amounts of tax, the government has strongly opposed giving holiday money for a day’s money. Now we have a temporary arrangement in place for this year, but to give this as a right is too much for the right. You can't afford to do that when you plan new tax cuts. Resolving the imbalances created by the crisis requires a fair crisis policy at all levels. The working party has been a driver and is still in favour of the business compensation system, but large transfers from the community to the companies must be accompanied by clear demands and expectations that the jobs are to be saved, not the shareholders. Then we have to say no to dividends and redundancies in companies compensated by the community. Large dividends create greater differences and destroy confidence in the crisis mechanisms. As a result, the vast majority of enterprises act responsibly, while a few take advantage of the compensation mechanism and other emergency measures. To give an example, it is not reliable when a company receives more than 300 million. DKK in emergency aid, thank you for resigning more than 1000 employees. It is also not reliable when companies both leave employees and make dividends. This could have been avoided, but the Right has stood in the way of any restriction on the aid schemes. Nearly a year into the crisis there would be a golden opportunity to impose limits on dividends and redundancies, but it looks like it's going to be downgraded even today. The Labour Party is concerned that unemployment is now falling at a high level, and we are concerned that we are not able to get more young people into the labour market. A week and a half ago, the Minister of Finance presented the government's perspective statement. We have many major challenges in Norway we have to solve, and alongside achieving climate targets, perhaps getting more young people to work is the biggest challenge. Here was not the starting point well before the pandemic met us, with a doubling in the number of young people before the last years. One must not be a member of an opposition party to establish that the policy has not worked. We know that these trends are intensifying with the pandemic. It is young people who are most affected by unemployment and, to a large extent, by the solitude of the closure. Yesterday, at the opinion, we could read a statement of concern from 250 child psychologists, who say that they are unable to provide good enough health care to those who need it the most, and that major challenges are not met with increased resources. Therefore, it is good that appropriations are now made available for mental health, but from the Workers' Party we believe that there is a need for a lasting lifting and that the low-threshold services in the municipalities are also given priority. In the future, crisis policy must be more about resources in the municipalities of mental health care, school, kindergarten and care for the elderly. It has to be about volunteering, sport and culture, which, after the pandemic, is going to get us out and into action again, all the small and large communities that create good lives throughout Norway, and not least all the young people who are outside, who are going back into work after the pandemic. With this I will address the Labour Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e379	The representative Eigil Knutsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e384	It is well in place to congratulate the day, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e389	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e394	The eighth crisis package from the government, Prop. 79 S, supplies in many important areas according to the decision of the Stortinget on 19 January. It is not as good at everything, and there are also things that have not been delivered sufficiently to follow up the decision of the Storting. Therefore it has been necessary to make improvements and reinforcements. In the context of the new age for 2020, the Progress Party, in cooperation with the Government Parties, had an impact on an aid scheme for holdings that were exposed and affected by measures to prevent infection, and it was a support scheme to go through the municipalities. It turned out to be a very effective system – it hit very well, and the money was paid quickly. Now the situation is more complex because of new outbreaks of infection in the Oslo region and Bergen, and there are now far more industries than just the food industry that are or have been shut down. The combination of unemployment, population and level 4 or 5 infection protection measures provides a better level of success, such as the fact that Asker and Bærum will receive funds to compensate their local businesses and shops that have been physically confined for a long period of time. The funds allocated within the limits of 1 billion. kr, may include, among others: used to cover lost stocks, pending the loss of stocks as part of the general compensation scheme, and may be used for destinations and travellers preparing for the post-pandemic period when society reopens. The situation is different from the municipality to the municipality. It varies, and what's the benefit of the scheme is that it provides a very high degree of flexibility. At the same time, this mechanism becomes a contingency mechanism that can be used if needs arise from new closures in other cities or areas. In this case, the link between infectious disease control measures and economic measures is improved, and there is something the Progress Party has repeatedly called for when the Stortinge has dealt with different crisis packages. It provides better predictability for those affected and greater financial security to overcome the various phases of the pandemic. In addition, Svalbard has ensured its own 40 million pot. kr to help travel, which becomes the most important industry for the swallowing community. It is claimed that large parts of Norwegian business have been successful in the corona era, and that is probably true. But at the same time, we know that there are many small and medium-sized enterprises that have a real hard time because of their lack of turnover and their strained liquidity. In particular, new businesses and growth companies face enormous challenges because they fall outside the general compensation schemes. The Progress Party will primarily have a national valve system that includes those in this category, but in this process we will have a majority to strengthen the municipal system, which will help many companies in a critical phase. And we get a majority to strengthen Innovation Norway's schemes, which are specifically designed for companies in the development phase. During a period when many have been outsourced or unemployed, the extraordinary increase in electricity prices has become a heavy burden. The costs do not take into account income or the economic situation. The Progress Party would therefore like the government to take action to remedy the situation. Subsidy, we will vote in favour of the proposals for a one-off payment to those receiving housing aid, but we believe that the measures should widen. Ferry prices became a thriller against this landfill treatment. There appears to be a majority who believe that ferry prices have become too high and that the monthly cost of business and commuters has to be greatly reduced. Then it should have been possible for the Workers' Party and the Centre to support our proposal on halving. But they won't. The Progress Party maintains its primary proposal, but in other words we support the proposal to call on the government to return to the revised national budget of 2021 with proposals for reduced ferry tariffs already for the current year. The solution for lower rates for commuters shall be given priority and the reduction shall be financed by the State. With this, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e417	The representative Hans Andreas Limi has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e422	Workers and businesses around Norway have been hit hard by the pandemic, and it has been vitally important, from Norway, which closed down in March a year ago, to provide targeted measures, both to provide income protection for workers, to provide compensation schemes for hard hit enterprises and to provide a separate income insurance scheme for self-employed and freelancers. In all these areas, it has been important for the Storting to have intervened and put forward new proposals and reinforced proposals. One thing was initially, when the pandemic hit hard, came surprising to all of us and it was demanding to see both what had to be done, and the long-termity of it. But when one had come into the pandemic for many months, one should expect that the government and their support party the Progress Party showed greater willingness to actually give those who are hard hit, predictability that one will get help throughout the pandemic, make sure to correct obvious imbalances in the mechanisms that affect many different industries, and to take action when one comes up with ever new examples of unfair use of the schemes. Finally, we have seen more examples of this, and I have recorded that the Minister of Economic Affairs believes that the government does not have the opportunity to do anything if, for example, it does. owners of dwellings are allowed to rent out in order to increase their turnover and to be able to receive corona support. This clearly runs counter to the purpose of the compensation scheme. After all, the compensation scheme shall cover losses mainly attributable to the coronary apathy. The misuse of the scheme shall be eliminated. That is why, together with the Workers' Party, we are today promoting proposals that the government is just asking to follow up on this, so that no one should sit and look at the improper use of schemes. The systems are in place to save workers and enterprises that are unable to obtain income, which are unable to perform their work because of the restrictions on the protection of infectious diseases that have been imposed. At the same time, however, we must show the will to intervene against those who try to exploit and take advantage of the arrangements, and there is a clear expectation to the government that they will follow it up, and not sit passively and say that they have general arrangements, so that they have no opportunity to intervene against those who try to abuse the arrangements. So to the weaknesses in the arrangements: We made some important decisions in January – some clear orders to the government – because the government budget that was adopted by the government parties before Christmas and the supporting party Progress Party was not good enough in many areas. Therefore, there was a need for a clear decision to extend the income insurance schemes, to extend the period of leave and also to provide better compensation for hard hit industries. Among other things, we received: a clear order for the government. Finally, a large number of people came to the conclusion that they would have a compensation scheme for aviation. Unfortunately, when we get here today, it's not a majority that still maintains the pressure on the government to set a clear deadline. In other areas, it is necessary to correct the unfair discrimination between those such as leases of coaches, which are covered by leasing costs, both interest and deductions, through the compensation scheme, and those who own themselves, who do not receive equivalent cover for similar costs. There is a clear unfairness that has been pointed out from the beginning, and as has also been said by the government and the finance minister from the start, things you should look at. Nothing concrete happens. Unfortunately, what is happening is that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party alternately provide support to the government to ensure that there is no targeted action in this crucial area. Similarly, for example, there is a hard-hit event industry and for destination companies. We have to make sure on a broad basis to arrange the arrangements so that they hit. I'm glad there's going to be an increase both in mental health and in helping people who are struggling with high power prices, but there would have been a need to do a lot more to help workers and businesses through the crisis. I would like to take up with it the other proposals that the Central Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e439	The representative of Sigbjørn Gülsvik has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e445	We're almost a year into Norway's management of this pandemic. Although the vaccines are now being rolled out at varying rates, we do not know how long we want the infection, how long we want strict measures to prevent infection, and how the infection will develop. Given the impact that the measures and pandemic have on the economy and future of people and businesses, I believe that we have a duty to assess how the financial measures and compensation are taking, and to adjust the rate at which it is going to be distorted. Unfortunately, we have to note that the majority is not very willing to do so. The representative Kapur spoke about the right listening to business. But it probably applies to the largest companies with the most powerful lobbying forces in their backs. The compensation scheme for enterprises is rigged for the largest enterprises and their groups and their owners. Last spring, the five largest companies got as much money as 27,000 small and medium-sized companies. This year, so far, the five largest companies have received half of the aid, and the rest are divided by 2,800 companies. The government says this is because the largest companies have so many employees. But as the class struggle shows today, the largest groups receive far more support per employee than the small ones. Yesterday I had contact with two owners of small businesses here in the East. They contacted them because both of them were quite pissed off and very, very disappointed. They feel that the aid schemes do not hit them at all. One of them had just had to resign an employee because she couldn't afford to hold her. So then we get another unemployed person in the statistics because the state schemes don't hit the small businesses. So one can only imagine what it's like to fear that life's work will crumble, and with it perhaps its own personal economy, while groups of wealthy owners in their backs, also internationally, extract millions of millions from state aid schemes. In this position, the majority will give the government the power to reduce the ceiling of the compensation scheme somewhat, but in no way will it have any practical significance for the companies. Nor is there any willingness to limit the possibility of dividends for companies receiving State aid, to prohibit them from cancelling employees while receiving aid, or to prevent the beneficiaries of the compensation scheme from replacing permanent employees with temporary staff, even if we now hear the concerns of trustees who experience it, such as: in the hotel industry. Nor is there any willingness to support the proposals to make aid schemes much more effective for small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is a growing frustration, both in and out of the opposition, that the government and the majority are not willing to listen to those proposals. Last week we could see at the NRK that property companies and owner-occupiers leave dwellings empty to receive support from the compensation scheme, but the government did not think it was a problem last week. Today SV proposes to exempt property from the compensation scheme. There should be more parties here. Where we agreed in the past that it is a national responsibility to ensure that companies receive compensation as a result of strict disease protection measures, the majority are now moving towards shifting that responsibility to the municipalities. First of all, to rely on municipalities to provide support for their struggling local businesses, the responsibility is shifted to them to save small and medium-sized enterprises in the country. However, you are not willing to spend enough money on the table to the municipalities to follow up that responsibility, and you are not willing to support proposals for, among other things. increasing the local food funds, which enable municipalities to provide long-term support and not only emergency aid where the community and the state fail in their responsibility. I wish the majority were willing to go much further to make sure that the state aid schemes are fair, that we do not give priority to the largest, but that was not possible today. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e464	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e469	As others have pointed out, the crisis has been a long one, almost a year, and there is a comprehensive crisis package, the eighth in the number, that the government is now presenting. It's strengthened by the Financial Committee, and that's good. But even with this support, it is important to remember that the crisis continues, and there are very many who are going to be in a difficult situation. There are many things that have been taken up that are good. It is a comprehensive package of student action: we strengthen support for mental health, and extend the incentive schemes for culture, volunteering and sport. I also welcome the consensus of the 40 million committee. kr in support measures for Svalbard, which is 500 million. to summer schools for children and young people, and there are also several measures that could have been mentioned. But the main support for business is through the compensation scheme, which was established in the Brønnøsund Registers on 18 January. You get 85 pst. of determined costs. There are many discussions about the compensation scheme and the device on it, but I would like to stress that it is important that we do not make decisions that make the scheme more complicated and thus delay the payments to everyone who is now in a very difficult situation. It is important that this is so arranged that the payments can be predictable and that they can go out quickly. Then, even in the discussion before Christmas, we have been aware that it does not meet enough for many industries, especially the outdoor industry and small businesses. That is why we made a decision before Christmas to support the outreach industry and small businesses via the municipalities, and we did so in municipalities with increased unemployment. This proved to be a successful measure. The municipalities were able to get the funds – 250 million. kr – quickly, and now the government has proposed to build on this scheme. I am also very pleased that we in the Financial Committee have reached an agreement to increase support, initially to 1 billion. NOK, via the municipalities, and by 250 million. NOK for a later payment. Although we now also provide the most support for enterprises in municipalities that have had the most stringent infectious control measures and that have increased unemployment, half of this will still be provided to enterprises in all municipalities, and 250,000 kroner as the minimum amount for enterprises in the smallest municipalities. That's good, because we don't know where the companies that work the most are. There's a lot of variation around the country, and this gives a flexible system, where we can meet those who don't give the right support, or where it gets fairer, but where many of those who are now struggling are given the opportunity to get support through the municipalities. It is also important to provide support to municipalities so that these funds can be released quickly. They were able to do so with the decision we made before Christmas. This is a system that I hope will also remedy the situation somewhat for a hard-tested nightlife, especially here in the Oslo area and in Oslo. I have spoken to many people in the outdoor industry who are in a very difficult situation. There is no doubt that the scheme they put in place via the municipalities has made it easier, but that is not enough. But with the compensation system and also with the support we give today, I hope that this will be enough for these companies to get through a difficult situation, and that they can help keep alive the offer that this city and also others need when we finally get out of the crisis that we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e484	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation. It is quite right, as some pointed out, that there has been a great deal of effort, but I think that the setting that is currently in place has clarified some important pluralities, which I also bear in mind that one has managed to cooperate well. It is important at a time when the country is still facing a demanding situation, that we be able to work together to put in place good solutions. I want to start by stressing that the package that is currently leading is a good package, it's a good cure, that builds up under the strategy that we as countries have in the way we're dealing with this virus outbreak. We say that putting health first is the most important thing. Now we have to deal with the outbreak, and then we also have to follow up the financial measures to compensate for intervention. Then we say that when we can make things easier, a priority is to be given to children and young people, and last but not least, one should take care of and ensure that the most possible jobs can get through the demanding situation we are currently facing. I also mean that the permissions that are now given to multiples in Stortinget support under the same priority. There is a clear prioritisation of children and young people and of measures to promote employment in order to take care of the jobs we have, for example. When there's a connection to the 500 million. to summer school, to support children and young people in need of additional measures to be able to keep up the progress of their education. These are good measures, and I'm glad we've got them in place now. After all, the package that the government has provided has been largely connected, and then there are some places where there are some important and good additions. I want to, for example, stress, as others have done before me, the extra promises that come to mental health, where one has been able to direct it towards temporary measures, which are due to the situation we see now. That's good, that's important. The same is true when one, in addition to it, is able to put in place temporary measures to increase the bumps, when one sees the extra power calculation that many have got this winter. At that time, a temporary measure has been put in place, which is, therefore, a measure that is at home in this crisis package. What I think is good, it's important, and it shows that the parties have worked well. The big extra promise that has come during the committee's proceedings is money to the municipalities in order to contribute to some of the businesses that are extra strained in the situation we are currently facing. There we have landed on a distribution that means that all municipalities will get something, and with a minimum floor of NOK 250,000. That means that everyone now has some money in the toolbox to set up their businesses locally. The payments we had before Christmas, I think, show that the municipalities can handle it in a good way, and not just it: one has another 500 million. Allowance at the top, which means that the municipalities that wear the most and have the most demanding situation in themselves, and have had it in the last few months, have more means to manage what they have faced. It's important. It's also good that one has the 750 million. If situations arise in the back, we need to rig the municipalities in order to take even more responsibility, or to contribute more to their local businesses in the future. There's a big debate that now has come, on max. of curtailment. I think it's good that we have a large majority now that gives the government an authority to take them down. I would also like to highlight the comment from the plural, where a beg government follows the situation and evaluates it towards the summer. That's what I think is important. In some of the posts before me here has an emphasis on the caretaker and how important it is that some of the schemes are available for custody. That was also the argument when the bulk of the population said one would expand until summer, with a current peak of 80 million. kr. I think it's good that we take it down now, and I think the government has to follow up the comment that lies, to follow and evaluate the measures further. As in most other cases, not all proposals get multiples, but I think it's something the proposals that have got multiples have managed to underline. It is that the measures must be temporary and that they must not complicate some of the schemes we now have. There are many good intentions behind many of the minority proposals, for example. in the case of items to be included in compensation arrangements. However, the warning is that some of the payments may be delayed and that the State aid rules will be streamlined. The majority have taken into account the suggestions and the comments that are contained, and I think it is important that we underline – that we should not let the good intentions occasionally spoil the larger image. Because it doesn't have to be so that the sum of everything we're for is something that we're going to object to. By this I mean we've delivered a good package, which provides temporary measures to deal with the virus outbreak we're in, and which provides a good toolbox to deal with it by the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e503	The time of the crisis is not over just getting vaccination against the coronary virus. We need to build a society that can deal with much bigger crises in the future. The Coronapandemic has hit an entire world for a year now, but the way we've handled it has been very different. Infectious strategies have been different, but there have also been the economic crisis packages chosen by different countries. The EU decided early on to 30 p.m. of the corona crisis packages would go to climate-related measures. This has led them to compete in the EU for climate action. France has set itself the goal of becoming Europe’s largest electric car manufacturer, and Germany has followed up with aid for German electric car production. In Norway, we have spent nearly 200 billion. kr to support Norwegian business through the pandemic. Only 4 billion. kr of these have gone to help business become greener, i.e. 2 pst., as opposed to 30 pst. In Norway, we have chosen the opposite approach. We've given billions of aid to the oil industry. With the oil tax package, investments in oil and gas have remained very high in 2020, while other sectors have been broken back. For a year now, the Green Party has been promoting many different proposals to strengthen a greener business life in a crisis year. In this round we have focused in particular on proposals towards the maritime industry and the shipyards to increase the green jobs and thus the safe jobs. We proposed a financing mechanism for offshore wind, increased appropriations for technology development for zero-emission speedboats and the financing of CCS on Klemetsrud. The latter is important in itself, but also to provide an important domestic market for the Norwegian CO 2 management industry. Young people must not only bear the burden of climate change and the climate measures we do not dare to introduce; they have also been poorly treated in the crisis packages. Therefore, the numbers of solitude and mental distress are particularly serious for young people and young adults. According to the 2020 study barometer, 20 pst wears. by the students now financially. It's not a small number, it's about 60,000 people who are now struggling to pay the bills. Students are outside basic welfare schemes, such as the daycare scheme. During the coronary apathy, this injustice has been revealed and, unfortunately, reinforced. While most others, even rental barons, receive grants from the government, the students have mainly received loans, and even the loan amounts are much lower than the income that has been lost by many, and much, much lower than the other employees are entitled to. To correct this, the MDG proposes to compensate students for up to NOK 6 100 in lost income per month. We're disappointed that no other party seems to want to support this. Of all branches of industry, the most prominent are those who have labelled the measures for the protection of infectious diseases. In Oslo it has been closed for almost four months. Fortunately, the compensation scheme must now also cover food and drink that expires and has to be discarded, but food waste is unnecessary and can be avoided. Therefore, we have suggested that the alcohol law should be adjusted somewhat, so that those serving places that are not served under the corona can rather sell beer and cider with a low alcohol percentage to customers who bring it home. This will not compete with the Vinmonopolet, only with the food chains, and will meet the objective of a restrictive alcohol policy. The serving industry also needs more help. We need this important offer of cultural arenas and meeting places across the country. In addition, it's the workplaces of thousands of people. When the world opens up again, many of these places will be heavily indebted. That's why we're proposing, together with the Senter party, that VAT on food is set at the same rate as the food you buy in the store. Finally, I would like to say that unfortunately it has become clear that we have not met well enough with the compensation system. Losses have become socialised, the gain has been privatised. It is not so strange that the system has had weaknesses, after all, in record time. At the same time, we must now take on board the criticism that has come from a number of professional economists. Enterprises that have muscles to raise capital in the markets do not need large alms from the state. That is why, today, we are proposing 10 million thanks. kr per two-month period. This is what we believe will target the scheme, to save jobs that would otherwise be lost. With this I address the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e527	The representative Kristoffer Robin Haug has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e532	Red has said throughout the pandemic that it is the responsibility of the community to provide poor advice for families. Now, when we've got a period of sky-high power prices at the top, we're in Red satisfied that it's going to be a majority to pay out 260 million. kr extra in the housing stock. This means that some of the people who have the least of them can get help to pay the electricity bill. At the same time, it is a pity that it is only the Centre Party and the SV who support our proposal to give a similar handshake to a lot more of those with bad advice and who are affected by the crisis. We're going to continue to work on it and so that those who receive such a payment do not get benefits at the same time. It would be grossly unfair. Local government employees have an exceptionally high workload in the last year, both because of the additional measures required to provide citizens with a safe welfare offer and because of poor basic staffing. Red proposes an additional billion to the municipalities to increase staffing. Local authorities need compensation to strengthen their well-being. The majority have come up with an increase in addition to the government’s far too low original proposals for the local compensation scheme, but the need is likely to be much greater. It is also time that the government would now compensate companies for the cost of lost stocks. It is important that the catering and outdoor industry be able to open up again when conditions allow, without again risking losing everything. Red will also ensure a good transport offer for people throughout the country. In our alternative budget, we spent money on cheaper buses, runways and boats and increased support to finance zero-emission solutions for ferries and speedboats. We're glad that there was a majority for a plan to reduce holiday prices, especially for commuters. Although the Storting here today adopts increased appropriations for many good purposes, it's a shame that no more parties see the excruciating need to tighten up the cash flow that goes to the top of business. Firstly, even after hearing criticism from what may creep and go by Right-Economists that the compensation schemes are a big dairy cow for some of the country's richest people, there is nothing to do with the problem. There are still no specific demands for limits on dividends, management wages and bonuses, and it is provocative that the community should continue to distribute tens and hundreds of millions to companies owned by billionaires who should be asked to take the bill themselves. Secondly, there are no reductions in how much a company can receive in the month. We're proposing a 10 million cap. kr per month. With that, small and medium-sized enterprises would still receive support, but we would have avoided distributing at least half a billion extras to the richest by the summer. Thirdly, the majority still keep their protective hand over the large property barons. Recently, figures showed that Olav Thon's companies are limited to giving their tenants 1.7 pst. Last year's house play. It is obvious that soft counsel from Minister of Finance Jan Tore Sanner is not enough. Now the government has to make sure that the rent is put down. Finally, as the NRK has revealed, the compensation scheme allows large rental companies to make more money sitting on apartments that they leave empty. Because if they rent out at a reduced price, they may ‘risk losing too little to qualify for aid’. This testifies to a system that is over-mature for cleanup. The government must now provide reduced rents, both for companies and for tenants, and so that the community no longer provides support to companies that leave rentals empty. With that, I'll take up Red's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e557	The representative Seher Aydar has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e562	The Coronapandemic continues to characterise many businesses and jobs. Unemployment is much higher than before the pandemic, and more than 200,000 people are now registered as job seekers. The uncertainty about developments in the near future is high. The emergence of a new variant of the virus that facilitates infection has shown that development is fragile. It can still be tough for a while. The government has always stressed that we want economic measures as long as the crisis lasts, but we are now on the rise side, and we also need to prepare for better progress than we fear, that the vaccine is being rolled out faster, that the infection is going down faster, and that the economy is shooting faster. We must then be able to step down the financial measures. Aid measures that last longer than is necessary could slow down the rise and hinder business conversion and re-activity. We have to plan for different scenarios, and the government does. In addition, we have to raise our eyes. In response to the crisis, we must, as far as possible, implement measures that not only solve the acute challenges but also help to meet the long-term challenges we face. That is why we are putting up heavy sentences, among other things. on education and competence. I am particularly concerned about young people and those with weak links to the labour market. The trend towards increased long-term unemployment is also alarming. That is why we are putting in place new measures to help these groups. We strengthen efforts with training and follow-up of the unemployed and introduce grants to hire young people in summer work. We extend the summer school offer to children and young people and provide money for more flexible training provision and measures for apprentices in vulnerable sectors and for various measures to help particularly vulnerable groups. We're doing everything we can to help make it work when the crisis is over. While large parts of the business have managed to keep up their activity, some service industries have been hit hard. They're together for about 10 pst. of value added in Norway and one in six jobs. We need these jobs in the future as well. In this proposition, the Government has proposed to extend the temporary arrangements for the deferred payment of taxes and levies by June. We extend the compensation scheme for business by June, and we have proposed a scheme in which municipalities can pay aid adapted to local circumstances, for example. to hard hit travel establishments or restaurants. In addition, we propose grants to Avinor and continue the migration scheme for the tourism and event industries. I would like to thank the Stortinget for a quick and good treatment of the measures, and I am pleased that this is in line with the government's proposal. In addition, several proposals have been made by the majority of the Committee, which complement the Government's proposals in a good way. The government's proposal for new and temporary corona measures was 16.1 billion. kr. That's a lot of money. It comes to the top of a very expansive budget. This sum has now become about 1.5 billion. kr higher. I register that some parties want to give even more gas. I'll warn you against that. Money usage is now very high, and we have the tools we need to deal with the situation over winter and spring. High use of money during the crisis has been necessary, but it is important that we spend the money properly, that we help those who need it the most, and invest in the way out of the crisis, and that the measures are reversed when we move out of the crisis and the activity again rises.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e581	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e586	The majority of the Committee on Budgets is about 200 million. extra for mental health, which is temporary money. The working party wants to increase the allocations to mental health, we want to sustain the mental health service, and we want more money for the services in the municipalities. At the NRK Opinion yesterday we could read a text from 250 pediatric psychologists who reported concerns that more children and young people are getting sick under the pandemic and that resources are not coming out. For us in the Workers' Party, this was no new information. We knew this. We knew that this is what the crisis is doing to people's mental health, but when we saw the government's proposal for a supplementary proposition, we wondered if this information had not happened to the government. That's why my question to the Council of State about the information about the mental health situation out there and the resources in the services hadn't come to the attention of the government before they put forward the supplementary proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e594	I appreciate the broad political commitment of those who are now struggling, both those who have lost their jobs, those who are vulnerable, those who are lonely, and those who are mentally struggling. This is why the government has implemented a number of measures to help children, young people, students, pensioners and the general population. There are measures in the proposals made by the government, and not least there is a large budget at the bottom, where over many years the government has stepped up its efforts. But I fully agree with the representative Knutsen that we need to give priority to those who are struggling mentally, beyond the spring, beyond the year and I believe for many years to come. We have a job to do with the aftermath of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e601	On top of a slightly different theme: the minority government is so lucky that it is now empowered from the majority of population to tighten up the compensation scheme, the ceiling on it. There are several proposals from the minority. From the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party there is a rather moderate proposal, in my opinion, to lower the roof from 80 million. NOK 30 million. kr, and to lower the abbreviation entry point from 30 mill. NOK 10 million. kr. So the government is authorized by the bulk of the population to lower the roof from 80 million. to 50 million. kr. It's only symbolic, because there's very few or no one getting over that roof, and the entry point-- from 30 million. NOK 20 million. kr – will probably mean 5 million. kr i reduced aid for the largest beneficiaries. So my question to the Council of State is, when will he, at least, increase the curtailment of the arrangement? How fast can he get it in place, and how far down does he even think that the abbreviation should go when we're on the rise side of the crisis, as he called it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e608	I am very pleased with that mandate, and it is quite in line with what the government has always said, namely that the compensation scheme must be stepped down. We did that with the first compensation scheme. We stepped it down when we took down the anti-infection measures and the activity took up. Then there has been a not insignificant pressure, not only from the sole proprietor, but also from Stortinget, to increase both the degree of compensation and the roof. When Stortinget now gives the government the authority to step down, I am pleased with that, and I believe that it is absolutely right and necessary. This is due in particular to the fact that the very largest companies will be able to raise more money in the market now than they could in the spring of 2020. So this is also part of a natural phase-out and an exit strategy on the way out of the crisis – to make it easier for businesses to live gradually on their own incomes when we take away the infectious measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e615	It is quite correct that the Stortinget has been committed to having good and powerful support schemes for business. The Labour Party supports the compensation system, and we support it for the duration of the crisis. But there is also the fact that we are concerned that trust in the arrangements should be maintained, and I fear, and the Workers' Party fears that we are now seeing that trust disappear. For a long time, it has been proposed in this room to limit dividends, redundancies, bonuses and management salaries for enterprises receiving community crisis support, but it has been voted down every single time. Would it not have been a good idea, now that we are on the rise, to introduce at least some restrictions, especially for the largest companies, which also have alternative sources of funding in the capital markets? Couldn't they get any restrictions on dividends and redundancies? It's perfectly possible to make dividends, but then they can be financed in ways other than through the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e622	It is attempted to create the impression that only the large companies have received support from the compensation scheme. Let me just show you that small and medium-sized enterprises have been paid 60 pst. of the aid. Small and medium-sized enterprises employ up to 50 people, with a total of 35,000 different enterprises receiving aid. It shows the great diversity of those who have received support from the various schemes. I understand why the Workers' Party is raising the debate on dividends, but the question is how long the Workers' Party thinks it should be postponed. Is that for August? Is it for October? Is it for November? After all, it won't solve any challenges that a company is postponing dividends for a few months and then taking even greater dividends. Many owners rely on dividends to pay taxes as their own income. I just don't think it's a suitable tool to achieve what the Workers' Party wants. We agree that managers and owners should be moderated, and we have a clear expectation that they do too.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e629	The size now deals with the eighth crisis package. There's been a lot of people in less than a year. This may indicate that the time horizon, at least in the previous ones, may have been a little too short, or that the infection situation has been extremely unpredictable. It's probably a combination. Anyway, we have to look forward in time. We have to prepare for the time after the Corona. It was the Minister of Finance in his speech when he talked about planning for different scenarios. Then my question to the Minister of Finance is: What measures does the government prepare? What measures will the government give priority to boosting the activity of the economy and society in general when infection rates allow? Is it e.g. Are there any good tax reliefs that help to speed up the economy when the situation is normalized?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e634	It is absolutely right that the coronary apathy and the infection are unpredictable. We have also been very clear that financial measures need to be adapted to the situation in terms of infection and disease prevention measures. We already put forward our strategy for Norway's way out of the crisis in the spring of 2020, which is about creating more and including more. There we have eaten the measures that we think are necessary and correct. It's about competence. It's about education. It's about the green shift. And it's about making arrangements for conversion. When the measures for the protection of infection are taken down, the activity will be taken up. We saw that throughout the summer and last year, when the number of lay-offs and the unemployed went down. The activity in the economy was absorbed. It will also do so now, but there will be a need for action, in particular to help the long-term unemployed and young people, and not least the necessary effort on skills and the green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e641	I recorded in the answer from the Minister of Finance that he did not take my challenge of tax relief. I interpret it there that it may be a little early to say something about it now, but perhaps the Minister of Finance can confirm that we can look forward to the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e646	I look forward to the government parties and the Progress Party being able to sit down and negotiate the revised national budget when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e651	It is many solid traditional companies that have had a very tough year. When we adopted a compensation arrangement last spring, it was precisely because we were to ensure that solid and well-run companies got through this crisis. What has been an injustice in the compensation system all along is that those who have been operating traditionally, for example. a coach company which has traditionally operated and owned its bus, compared to a coach company that has leased instead, has been penalised. I can take a concrete example from a bus company in Alta. If they own the bus, they get $4,800 in compensation when it's financed by a loan. If they lease, they get $24,000 in compensation for one bus. This is fundamentally unfair, and everyone who's been doing business sees how unfair this is, because it's just about the form of funding, and often it's those who have a little poor equity that use leasing as a tool, while those who are able to finance it themselves are being punished for it. Why does Jan Tore Sanner, as Minister of Finance, think that it is right for those who own it to be punished in preference to those who lease?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e656	This is not about punishing those who own it, the question is what form of ownership or form of lease increases the bankruptcy risk. Depreciation rules are so-called non-payable costs, as opposed to renting. If you were to follow the comments of the Centre Party, there would be new injustices, between those who bought a new tractor and those who have an old tractor. This would mean that those who have a new tractor would receive more money from the compensation scheme than those who have an old tractor. What is the purpose of the scheme is to ensure that businesses receive support for the fixed, unavoidable costs, and we believe that depreciation is not part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e662	Last year, when we had a discussion about the compensation scheme in the main hall, Sanner expressed an understanding of how unfair this was going to turn out. And it turns out unfair if you take away the rhetoric -- very unfair, because it's very random whether a person chooses to lease or own, for example. a bus, which is a solid part of the Norwegian tourism industry. There are a lot of tourist companies around Norway. Some leases, other owners, and in practice, if you have a lease, you get help, and if you own, you don't get help. Does Sanner see that this can also have an unfortunate effect, that in the future anyone who is going to buy that kind of operating assets will lease because the state is doing much more if you use leasing and financing companies than if you use the traditional, local bank and not lease? Is Sanner worried about that kind of effect? This has been a gift package for all Norwegian leasing companies versus the traditional way. I'm not against leasing, but I'm against helping those types of companies more than the traditional form, where you use depreciation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e669	The answer to that question is no. I'm not afraid of that. When someone has to invest in a new tractor, a new tourbus or a new truck, they don't wonder if we're going to have a new crisis and a new compensation scheme. It's not like that. This is not about not getting support, but about getting support for fixed, unavoidable costs. It is absolutely right that I promised that we would look at it a year ago. We have done that, and our conclusion is that we should not include that kind of depreciation rate in the compensation scheme. This could also mean that payments would come later, because there was a need to change the arrangement significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e676	I want to continue a little bit in the same street as the Battle of Vedum, because the reality is that one year inside the pandemic is hitting the support systems crooked. There has been a central premise for the treatment of the compensation scheme all the time that we should make adjustments to address just the distortions that exist there, both when it comes to the fact that some companies and companies with powerful back capital holders receive very much support, and when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises doing so to a small extent. The opposition simply feels quite reluctant from the government parties and from the Progress Party to find the solutions necessary for SMEs to receive adequate support. Because even though many have received it, there are also many who have not fallen under the compensation scheme and who do not get sufficient resources through it to survive. So what will the government do to meet them? Or aren't they going to get any support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e681	There is no doubt that many people are struggling. Many people work very hard, and some companies have also gone overboard. However, it is not true that small and medium-sized enterprises are not subject to the compensation scheme. I explained in my post that over 60 pst. payments have gone to small and medium-sized enterprises. More than 35,000 enterprises have received aid. Neither is the compensation scheme the only form of support. We have the loan guarantee scheme, which has paid out to a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises – over 11 billion. kr paid out in loans. We have very good schemes through Innovation Norway, both for conversion support and for start-up companies. So you also have to look at the breadth of the measures we have, and I think we now have good tools to help businesses through the crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e686	I think the Minister of Finance understands that the holder of a skin care salon in the Drammen or a restaurant in Greenland has little help in providing support to other small and medium-sized enterprises when they fall outside. Then there is quite a frustration among them – rightly, in my opinion – that there is no attempt to find schemes that make them better. Talking about loan guarantee schemes is, with respect to reporting, completely irrelevant to those companies. But back to the exchange of lines that the Minister of Finance had with the Workers' Party on thank you. Now, the bulk of the population gives the Minister of Finance a power to lower the ceiling, even though there is already a mandate in the scheme, given that there is a rule to lower that ceiling. Will the government consider lowering the roof to a level where it actually has a practical impact? Or do you really just want to lower it symbolically to give some kind of signal, but not really cut the support to the greatest?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e693	Now it is quite natural that the Minister of Industry, when that proposal is hopefully adopted in the Grand Duchy, looks at the whole of the proposals, and then we will be able to make decisions on them very quickly. As I have stated on several occasions, I believe that the system needs to be stepped down when we see that the measures of infection can be reduced and the activity comes up. And the government has initially wanted a lower ceiling than that adopted in Stortinget. But let me go back again to the beginning of the question and to the previous question: it is quite obvious that there are companies that fall outside. That was the reason why the government parties and the Progress Party agreed in the new Age of 250 million. kr to the most severely affected municipalities, which could quickly pay it to companies that fell between several chairs. The municipalities did so in a very efficient and good way – mainly, we have seen some exceptions. Now that scheme has expanded considerably, and I hope and trust that the municipalities will find good solutions, which means that the companies that need it will also receive this support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e705	Congratulations on the day from me, too, President! The government is closely monitoring the impact on industry of the measures taken to prevent infection. We have set up several loan, compensation and support schemes to help companies that are experiencing a difficult situation now in an effective way. As a result of new closures and uncertainties, we also propose to extend several arrangements that had a duration up to spring, and I am pleased that the Stortinge joins many of the government's proposals for extensions and changes. The size has requested the government to consider several changes to the general business compensation scheme. The purpose of this compensation scheme is to contribute to avoiding unnecessary bankruptcy and to grant grants to businesses when the pandemic and anti-infection measures restrict the possibility to engage in economic activity. At the same time, it is important that the compensation scheme does not weaken incentives for business and conversion. The government chose to set up a broad system of rapid treatment, so that companies can quickly get the money into the account. It is important for companies to have liquidity in what is challenging times too many. Since the scheme was opened for applications on 18 January, nearly 5000 enterprises have received aid, divided into nearly 7 000 grants, and the total amount of grants is in excess of 1.3 billion. kr. Any adjustments to that scheme should not go beyond the benefit of the current automated system. At the request of the Government, the compensation rate is 85 pst. in the scheme, with the possibility of reducing the level of compensation for May and June if the measures for the protection of infection and the situation of infection so warrant. There is a proposal to reduce the ceiling of the compensation scheme so that maximum monthly aid can be reduced from 80 to 50 million. kr, and that the curtailment point can be reduced from 30 to 20 million. kr. Since 18 January, there are five grants broken down into three companies which have exceeded the 30 million entry point limit. kr per month, and no one has exceeded the maximum amount. I would also like to point out that the package tour operators are important for the travel industry, and the government has outlined two possible solutions in the proposition presented to fill in the Storting's request decision No. 191 on the guarantee market for package tour operators. The Financial Committee shall take note of the report in its configuration. At the same time, it appears that the opposition is promoting a proposal for a decision with the same content as the Stortinget adopted on 3 December 2020. It's not quite obvious to me what Stortinget is now asking us to do. It is possible that there will be more clarification in the debate. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Storting is now choosing to support and improve a proposal to grant money to the companies through the municipalities. The feedback I received from companies that have received money from the 250 million. kr, which was paid to municipalities before Christmas, is that it is an unbureaucratic system that makes a good deal of money available to municipalities to target grants to small and medium-sized enterprises. And there's a system that's proven to give money quickly to those who need it. I am very pleased that it is being continued and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e727	One and a half million Northmen have their jobs in service industries, and travel and serving are a large part of them. They were largely shut down in the spring of 2020, served a little last summer, and many have now been completely shut down in practice since November. It was a pretty bad harvest for this industry. This is an industry characterized by low margins or earnings, not all of the world's equity, little pledge to get a loan. On average, they get 46 pst. of approved fixed costs compensated by the compensation scheme. They can't live with it when this lasts so long. The Labour Party proposed in November that they should have a share of the income they normally use, and the one they had before the pandemic, because they are particularly affected by infectious diseases — not to have to permit everyone, to try to have an activity and to be there when we can open up. Does the Minister see that we will lose many jobs if we do not target the aid more against these particularly coronary and often small businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e736	Firstly, I believe that we target some of the arrangements we have, especially towards travel, including the catering industry. The compensation scheme applies to our entire business. It's like the base plank. But we have targeted schemes, such as: the migration scheme, towards travel life. We have now put forward a proposal to which the Storting agrees, where we'll see a little bit wider about it, where we can also do more in e.g. the serving industry. I've had more meetings to make sense of how we can do it. That's 1 billion. kr that is placed on the table there. In addition, the municipal scheme, i.e. the money paid through the municipalities, has been targeted in many municipalities at the very sectors that are struggling the most. So I mean we do both parts -- we give in general, and then we give in to those that have the greatest challenges. But we have chosen in the general compensation to cover costs and not sales losses. I think we should be glad that today was the arrangement we announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e746	New theme: Up Norway, a new innovative digital tour operator, provides export revenues to the country by collecting customers who both eat Norwegian food and go to Norwegian natural experiences. They have everything we want for the future. In their second year of life they have been sitting and refunding and refunding cancelled travels without necessarily getting back from the subcontractors many flights they have made – they have not been refunded. The Travel Guarantee Fund now requires 5.5 million. kr in their guarantee that they will be able to operate at all from 1 March. The guarantee market has broken completely under the corona. Today, the Storting will decide that the State must contribute to restoring and contributing to the guarantee market for package travel. How quickly will the Minister be able to deliver? We know that there is an important deadline there: 1 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e753	As I was in my post, I am a little uncertain about what the Stortinget really wants from the government in this matter, because in the proposition we have assessed both a direct guarantee scheme and a reinsurance scheme. It turns out that we believe that the reinsurance scheme is the least disruptive to the market when we go back to the normal situation, and that it is also easy – let's say – to operate purely administratively. But instead of the large number deciding what they want, and adopting something about this, they come up with a new request decision. I can understand that, because the situation is inconceivable. What we know now is that there is a guarantor who has withdrawn from the market. Some of those who were there have received new guarantees elsewhere, some have not. So we have made an assessment of the different measures we could have taken. The size has chosen not to go for it, but instead asked us to do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e758	It's not that the opposition is a completely homogeneous unit, at least not for the time being. So I think the government should now be able to make a very concrete proposal that we can decide on. I can give you an idea: it's actually possible to take over part of the reimbursement requirements that these packagers are sitting on, and maybe try to drive in the money, help them with it to facilitate them. I also think that when it comes to conversion, as the Minister points out, it is the important thing that travel life is now going to turn against. We want all our cooks to cook for us even after the pandemic, we want the patios in Oslo to be here, we want a living flora of small and medium-sized enterprises. I would ask the Minister to consider whether it is possible to target even more against those who are particularly hard corona framed, so that they can be here after the pandemic is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e765	As I said in my previous answer, we have assessed both a direct guarantee scheme and a reinsurance scheme, and there is a mention in the proposition. I fully agree with the representative that after the pandemic is over, these innovative, modern, forward-looking parts of travel life will continue to exist. I really feel that we have an entire tourism sector that is there, that wants to change, that wants to be sustainable and forward-looking, and that has a lot of projects going on. It just shows the conversion arrangements we've had now. They've been very popular, it's been a very big search. That's why that billion comes with very well. We have to look at the whole thing: are we going to be able to set this up in such a way that it hits the best possible way? Because there are a lot of good projects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e772	I record that sometimes it is revealed that not everyone receives state money through the compensation scheme, who acts equally tidy. It is a system that is very much trust-based, but there are also requirements for audit certification. Then is my question to the Council of State: how will she ensure better control, detect abuse and ensure that if attempts are made to abuse and exploit a trust-based system, there will also be consequences for those who do the kind of actions that are sidelined by the purpose and intention of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e777	Yes, it's absolutely right that here the community stands up with considerable sums to save businesses from going bankrupt, and then we also have a code that they have to apply for. It has been important for us to put this system in place that we are not able to have the same type of control activities in the Brønn Island Health Registers as the tax haven has. The tax base is a large organisation that normally operates with control, while the Brønn Island Health Registers are an organisation with less than 500 employees. We were totally dependent on having an automatic system if we were to be able to do this. Then we made the solution that the accountant and the accountant have to go well for the application, approve it in advance, before it is sent in and processed by the Brønn Island Health Registers. But it's also a system that allows you to exercise control in retrospect. Until now, it has been primarily about dealing with the applications, but as I said, there is also an opportunity to monitor them afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e782	One of the toughest industries in the world is travel nutrition. You can do a lot now, but you can get tourists back. Then it's built up quite a lot of good tools and structures to get people to come to Norway, get people to travel in Norway. One of these things is that our country has a number of destinations that do a very good job marketing their region, getting people to Norway. After all, they have not been covered by the different schemes, while those who have financed the destinations suffer from the disembarkation of tourists. They have a bad economy, so the ability to pay partisan contributions or inlays has been a weakness. Then my question is: is it a goal to preserve the destinations, and does the Council see the need for a separate arrangement aimed at destination companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e795	It is not entirely correct that they are not covered by the current compensation scheme or by other schemes, because it is destinations companies that have received under both the compensation scheme and the conversion scheme. But it's clear that the structure they have probably doesn't help them get so much out of it, for example. the compensation scheme, since the revenue from the members is not considered as an expense. So we've now tried in the proposition to mention them a little bit specifically, so that we can target those arrangements even more towards the destinations. The conversion scheme may be applicable to them, which in a way operates too many and has large projects in progress, but also the scheme through the municipalities may be applicable to the destination companies. But I fully agree with the representative that it is also important in the future that we have destinations companies that can work for their member companies. It'll benefit the entire traveling life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e800	An important principle in managing a crisis package is that those who try to avoid loss should not lose out on doing a decent job in order to avoid loss. We have a situation where some package travel companies, who instead of canceling the journeys, have chosen to postpone the journeys. But now it turns out that they are forced to cancel them anyway, with the result that they have ended up outside the scope of the scheme that was in force. It means in practice that because they tried to scare this, tried to postpone it, tried to get people to carry out and pay for their travels, they have yet to cover the loss they suffered. Then my question is, does the Council of State see that this is fundamentally unfair, and that there is a need to clean it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e807	Yes, there are some challenges – it is not possible to get under the chair – especially with regard to travel life and these actors. I understand that there's a minority proposal on the table today that doesn't get a majority, but this is part of the travel life that I think we need to have some attention to in the future just because things are changing. It is difficult to have a full overview of what the situation is. The same applies to the previous question from the representative of the Workers' Party. We don't fully understand how many actors this applies, and what amounts are involved. One must only continue to pay attention to that part of travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e813	Crisis money use in Norway appears to be among the worst in the world in terms of green migration. Of nearly 200 billion. kr in crisis money, it's only about 4 billion. kr, i.e. 2 pst., which is used for green conversion according to numbers from the government itself. On top of that comes the oil support package. The government itself has said in its plan to get Norway through the pandemic that creating a green future is one of the objectives of the government. In the EU, 37 psts have been earmarked. of the green crisis money and 12 pst. is averaged in the world, so in Norway it's just 2 pst. Does the Council of State think that these are good enough green figures for Norway? At all events, it has been assessed that the compensation scheme or the loan guarantee scheme imposes green requirements, or, for example: the aviation industry, which has received more than 20 billion dollars. Total in compensation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e822	To take the compensation scheme first: the concept is that the entire business must be compensated for parts of determined costs if they have a corona-related turnover of 30 pst. or more. It's been agreed in Stortinget, that we're going to help the companies through. It's nothing but covering some of the costs they have. I think we have had a rather offensive approach in terms of the green shift also into this. I agree that the oil package might tick it a little, but that is, as the representative Kaski knows, something the Storting did on its own and that was not the government's proposal. But within e.g. maritime sector, we are now taking important steps with the conditioning system – 150 million. kr on the offshore segment in addition to the capping regime of 75 million. kr from before by. We've put forward a green platform of 1 billion. kr, and there is a great deal of excitement also in the instrumentation of the ordinary arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e829	Governments cannot shift responsibility to Stortinget when it comes to the oil aid package. It was on the basis of a matter that came from the government, and the Left was also involved in the negotiations and part of the majority of the subsidy package that was adopted, where SV was not included. I have to say I'm a little surprised when the Council of State believes that the government has an offensive approach to green transition in crisis policy. 2 pst. can not be called offensive when you are looking at whether there is a green colour in those resources of crisis. The question for the future is: how can the use of crisis money be reversed in a greener direction? One thing is what you put on the table last year. Then we didn't know how long this crisis was going to last. Now we're one year into the crisis, and we know that it'll be able to continue beyond. There are large sums going out of the state. Let's make sure that they have green requirements attached to them and a green color attached to them, so that we can accelerate the green conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e836	I'm absolutely to accelerate the green conversion. Now we're going to start a new round on the conversion package that has been to travel life in the past. Now we're going to spread it out a little bit. This is also one of the issues we are looking at in this context. As I said, we have just distributed the first pre-projects on the green platform, and there will be more money afterwards. I believe that having the green replaced as part of everything we do is important. But it's not just important for government, it's also important for business. Process21 just presented its report, where the process industry itself points out that the green transition can enable us to double our exports in the next few years. We want to be far ahead. We want to deliver what is world-leading green technology, because that's how we can win competition in a world market.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e845	The real estate investors continue to make a lot of money through the pandemic. We see that it has helped disappear little to just ask these actors nicely to contribute to the effort. Rental companies wonder about letting apartments stand empty rather than reducing their rent to get them rented out. It must be said to be miles away from Storting's intention that the money should go to save as many jobs as possible. My question is, what will the Council of State actually do in the future to ensure that not both companies and tenants are squandered by the property companies that refuse to put down the rental?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e852	I note that there are some suggestions that are on the table from Stortinget. One that I believe is the SV's proposal proposes, for example. to withdraw one NACE code from the compensation scheme. This will lead to two challenges. Firstly, there is a state aid problem that there are limits to how many priorities we can do before there is a distortion that makes it illegal in this way. The second is that in one of the NACE codes on rental of own or rented real estate, 17 out of 104 grants go to Oslo, 3.3 out of 14.2 million. kr from September to December. If we take it out, we might take out these homes that the representative refers to, but then we also have to tell Lofoten Basecamp, Trysil Apartment Eiendom and Solastranden Gård that they don't get any support either, even though they have neither tourists nor organizers at the moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e857	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e864	The Minister of Finance said that we have to prepare for a better outcome, and I agree with that. A mandate has been given to the government to follow the arrangements so that they are adapted to the situation. It has to be added that we also have to be able to prepare ourselves for worse when there are mutated viruses. I think it's one of the lessons we can take from last year. When we came to summer last year, it was basically a position that it was now over, the compensation scheme was terminated. And when another wave of infection came, although it was not notified, it was not ready for a compensation scheme. Many companies went for several weeks and several months before we arrived in January and a new system came in place. So everyone knows that a year ago, before the Corona arrived, we might have been very surprised by the arrangements we've now adopted, the money we've spent, these measures. I want to commend the Stortinget for finding solutions that have complemented and made the government's solutions more fair, more accurate. The Minister of Finance said he was pleased that this was in line with the government's proposals. It is well in the bottom here, too, that the decision to increase the size of the store in January made clear the lead for it. Then it's a mandate to adapt along the way, and that's wise. I think it's amazing that the right-hand side and the government still stick to the fact that they have a clear expectation of propriety and moderation and not of dividends, not redundancies and not big bonuses, when we've seen the experience of that being the opposite. It would now have been possible, in connection with this decision, to tighten it up. So the finance minister says that then those dividends can come later. There will probably be dividends later, that's normal practice, but in the middle of the scheme, it weakens trust and legitimacy. My main concern now is actually in another area. We have measures against the corona to prevent our health services from being overburdened — or overwhelmed, as the health authorities say. It's a mental health development that bothers me. We have numbers on how many people have been admitted, how many are on intensive, how many are infected with corona. But we don't have precise numbers on the mental health front. FHI, which we trust on many occasions now, says that more people are struggling. I have spoken to psychologists in these days, those who work in the BUP, those who talk about the need for a psychosocial preparedness – just to be honest – in response to what we now see. It is bursting capacity, young people with eating disorders, more warnings of suicide, violence in close relationships, etc. It is essential to make decisions on money that come to those who need help. We now hear about people who have to give priority to the next sick in order to give priority to those who have the greatest problems. We need a force action, and it is alarming that it was not possible to get support for a package that actually reached, with the low-threshold offers that the opposition had proposed. We simply have to follow this further and have flexibility to escalate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e877	It becomes clearer and clearer that the pandemic is also a disparity crisis. With regard to the distribution of the burden of the economic downturn, they are systematically distributed unevenly. While wealth is still being built on top of Norwegian society, while the stock exchange is doing well, low-paid workers are paying the highest price of the crisis. That is why there is now a need for a crisis policy that is for the many, not for the few. It is throughout this crisis that it is the opposition that has pressured the government to pursue a more social crisis policy. Again and again, the opposition has promoted measures against unemployment, against bankruptcy when the government has not acted. And so is it this time as well. We are pleased that we can contribute to stronger action in the field of mental health; it is incredibly important, not least for our young people right now. And we're glad that it's now being adopted a temporary increase in the housing stock to help the many who are struggling with sky-high power prices. Nevertheless, injustice in crisis policy continues. On Thursday our proposal to increase the daily allowance for the unemployed who are struggling to pay the bills was rejected. Today, our proposal for a more permanent and larger increase in housing support in line with the decision of the Stortinget last year is rejected. While common people who become sick or unemployed meet tough demands, the government's approach to the richest and most powerful in this country is not tough demands, but trust. It is strange how the approach should be so different to them at the top. That is why today, the Storting should have adopted a proper ceiling on support for the large companies, so that we do not have such a strong distribution of disparities between large and small companies, so that we do not, in practice, contribute to the strengthening of the differences in this country. We should take the large tenants out of the compensation scheme in order not to have a system that makes it pay to leave dwellings empty. We should demand zero redundancies and zero benefits for those who receive crisis support, because the Community's crisis support must also benefit workers. It becomes a form of socialism for the rich, where the state takes the risk of them at the top, but facilitates that when better times come, the gain is again to be privatised, for example. by means of lower taxes on wealth already raised by the government. But the point of socialism is that you should help workers and those who have the least, not those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e890	Travel nutrition is one of the most intense industries in the pandemic. The party of progress has had close and good dialogue with the industry in the process, and we have received a lot of input and, not least, concerns from this industry. For this reason, the Progress Party is proposing things today that are intended to relieve the tourism industry. It is important that we create jobs and secure jobs throughout Norway, and there is a high potential in tourism. When the pandemic is over and people are ready to travel again, we have to have a travel industry that is ready to accept people who want to come to Norway. Last year, the Stortinget government asked for various solutions for the Travel Guarantee Fund. The Minister of Economic Affairs stated that she did not understand what Stortinget meant. I'll try to explain it. Last year, a government asked for an evaluation, and now it's a suggestion that the government should take action. There is a big difference when the word ‘estimate’ is not in the word, so my clear conclusion is that the Stortinget has now come to realize that the assessment made by the government, by waiting and looking, was not good enough. We want action and to get guarantees quickly. Therefore, the word ‘assessed’ is removed from the proposal supported by a collective opposition today. Then I thought it strange that the government would not read the two proposals differently and make sure that one is finished with assessment and that now it is going to set up a scheme. It is the clear hold of the Progress Party, and I also believe that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other opposition parties will confirm that when the word ‘estimate’ is not included, it means that now the Government is to submit a proposal to the Storting on a system that relieves the guarantee to all the players, so that they do not commit large capital in the guarantee position, but that the State is to remedy them in that situation. The destinations, to which many have come, are also important for the Progress Party. We have a proposal to include the quota in the compensation scheme, which will be very good and will meet well. It doesn't seem to have multiples, unless the Labour Party turns around during the debate and meets us. Difor, inspired by Norsk Reiseliv and Per-Arne Tuftin's proposal, has put in a compromise proposal that offers both the opportunity to give direct support and to incorporate this into the scheme and play that ball over to the government. I see that the centre part has also been clipped and glued and submitted an equally loose proposal, so it is possible that it can get multiples. In any case, there will be an important contribution to the destination companies, but the best thing is to vote for the Progress Party's primary proposals, which are on the table. In addition, I would like to refer to the municipal valve system, which is important for the destination companies and the travel industry, or else. For example, companies selling Norway abroad have had a huge fall, and it is important that they get hit by this scheme, so we hope that the municipalities give it priority. At the tap, I'll show you our proposal to improve the event industry's arrangements by expanding the support system to include them, which is an important asset. I take up the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e907	The representative Helge André Njåstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e913	One of the strongest meetings I had last year, I had in the departure hall at the Gardermoen. There were almost no people there at all. There was a corona still in the large, a little empty hall, but then I saw in a corner two guys who were driving and assembled triple carriages to carry luggage. I went away and started talking a little bit, and then he said one guy, who soon turned 60, that this was his last week at work. It was the end of November 1. He had received the notice of termination on 1 August. He also said that in that part of the Gardermo where he worked before, collecting luggage racks around the whole area, there were 75 people working at the beginning of March. When November 1 came, there were 5 people left – from 75 to 5. He wondered a little what he was going to do, whether he was going to take a certificate or education, for he soon filled 60. Unfortunately, he's not alone. I read an article in the Free Trade Movement, I think it was earlier this week, where it said that there were 1,000 employees only of the ground crew who had lost their job – 1,000 fates. And if you start talking to people who work in SAS, you hear about a lot of colleagues who have lost their job or have been nominated or partially transferred, if you talk to people who work in Norwegian, many there have been cancelled or have been granted leave, and who are uncertain about how to get their daily lives together. The same is true of people who work in Onyøe. There are a huge number of people in Norwegian aviation who have a huge problem. One thing is the companies, but not least it's about all the employees and the employees. Therefore, it is profoundly disappointing that the government will not come up with a compensation scheme for Norwegian aviation, because it is so important that we have Norwegian aviation at the end of this crisis, and that it is not Wizz Air, Ryanair or other actors that are to dump Norwegian wage and working conditions and that do not know Norwegian conditions well enough. We need a living Norwegian aviation, we need these jobs after this crisis, and I find it very disappointing that the government is not at all responsive to this industry, as I see it. And also today: that neither the Workers' Party nor the Advance Party are joining in and voting for a new request for the government to come back quickly with a compensation scheme. Then I just have to take it up again, and I know that the government thinks it is exhausting that we have to deal with this with leasing versus ownership. But it's about people I get e-mails from and talk to, those who have built stone on stone in their company over time, used private equity and financed it with savings, that they should not get help, while those who lease and rent, they should get help. It's unfair. So I encourage the representatives of the government parties to call some of the local companies themselves and hear how it turns out. I think if they talk to single actors in the industry, they're going to change their position, because then they're going to see that it's wrong. We in the Central Party, although we are today suffering a new defeat on behalf of those in this situation, are going to resume it, and then I hope that the co-representatives have taken on board a conversation with those who are actually affected by the injustice we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e924	The Financial Committee now has two major issues on its table. The one, the perspective message, is a 300-page warning about the future of government finances, and then we have what we're discussing today, new billions out of the same state fund. At first sight it is a paradox, but by more thorough reflection there is no doubt that it is imperative. The next perspective messages won't treat us nicely if the legacy of today's politicians was that we didn't do what was necessary to get people back to work and secure the income of ordinary workers, or if we let a mental health report among children and young people happen in front of us. The pandemic is crippling, and the crisis policy must correct these biases rather than strengthen them. For this reason, the Labour Party has had the perspective of ordinary people through all eight crisis packages here in the Stortinget. We have a priority that is to recognize, to fight unemployment and help those who struggle with isolation and loneliness during the shutdown. We are less concerned with crisis aid for the shareholders and more concerned with holiday money for the unemployed, education and training, crisis money for cultural life and voluntary and sport. This is good social-democratic policy. Then we have a historical impact on lower ferry prices, which the government has to come back and deliver on already in the revised budget for spring. This is wise, but I note that the particular individual capital environment, the government included, saw the coffee in the throat of this use of money. There is only one thing to say: the coastal population is used to finding themselves in many ways: a long way to hospitals, infinite response times to the blues and a country that centralises and withdraws. We've also accepted to pay too high a tax on using the road, because that's what the ferry is: part of the road, where one has to stop, wait and pay hundreds of dollars to get to work and visit friends and family. This has been accepted for a long time, but now it has reached a breakpoint. The dramatic increase in ferry prices under the right government, a climate change in which the state has to take too much of the bill for new material, more expensive supply and introduction of passports – the combination of all this and the consequences of a pandemic that has made everyone poorer is no longer to bear. Therefore, cutting the ferry prices is a bet on people, work and value creation along our coast. It's fair politics, and I'm very happy that the opposition has now come together to reduce the bill for coastal and fjord people who depend on ferries in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e933	The students have borne a heavy burden under the pandemic. The working party has been on the students' side from day one and worked to protect them financially and in other areas. What we want is to prevent economic crisis from forcing students to quit, that the pandemic creates greater social inequality. We contributed to the first student billion in March and made sure that the government's support scheme was converted from a purely loan to a grant share. In June we asked the government to continue the crisis support for the students, but the government said no. The Council of State responsible for students referred the students to social assistance. When it became clear that the first student billion benefited only a minority, we believed that this meant that the scheme was not good enough. The Council of State thought it meant that the students did not need any help. We called for a new crisis plan for students when the government presented its crisis package in the autumn, and in the state budget for 2021 we proposed a crisis plan again, but we were voted down. It was not until Christmas that the Council of State turned around and still wanted to work out a solution, but it lasted so long that the opposition merged into a new student billion. We in the Workers' Party want it to be given in a way that hits, as opposed to the government's arrangement. We're increasing the scholarship to at least 45 pst. and includes the first year students. Finally, a little bit about something else, the new Life Science Building, which is today the largest and most important investment in the University of Oslo. Construction is an input in line with other resources in research and higher education. Therefore, it is striking and unfortunate that the government in this proposition, without further justification, is in favour of state buildings managing the building. In May, the government abandoned its own proposal on centralised property management. Now the government is relaunching the same model, across the viewpoint of both the sector and the bulk of population. We in the Workers' Party do not see that the government has demonstrated why the administrative responsibility for the university's part of the building is to be transferred, and we hope that this is not the first step on the road to abolishing the principle of self-managing institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e948	I really don't think about what it would have looked like if it had been the government's proposal that had been implemented from the time of the coronary crisis. The size has improved a lot, but in some areas it seems that the government is completely blind. One is what's happening on the rental market now. I hear the Council of State now argues against SV's proposal that it is wrong here, and that it might get a little skeptical. The government's arrangements are frantic and give a lot of support to companies that shouldn't have it. And many people who should have had support don't get it. Then come up with your own suggestions, is my call to the government. Because it can't be meant to be able to keep apartments empty in order to avoid participating in the market mechanism that you say you're a member of, that prices go down when there's too many apartments. - This is ruining. It's socially destructive, because there's a need for housing now. The second is: it seems that the government is completely blind to the needs of the border municipalities. It is in stark contrast to how liberal people have been in the case of migrant workers, who have actually been a risk of infection. The border commuters have never done that. Last week, the bulk of the population voted against SV’s proposal that those who commute into Norway should receive a benefit when they do not get to work, because they are not allowed to do so now. In addition to the redefined government employees in kindergartens and schools from ‘socially critical’ to ‘socially important’. This means that the municipalities are located in border areas without necessary personnel — and for them, this is key staff. There are a lot of municipalities, and I know a lot of them well. It seems that the government doesn't even match the border areas at all. Even last week I had to go on for a long time to get students living on the Swedish border to be allowed to attend school in Norway. Not even that the government had settled in. Therefore, SV is proposing today to derogate from the entry ban for frontier commuters – those who are real frontier residents and commuters every day to work in Norway. The European Commission has recommended that this be done. The government has not shown that there has been any spread of infection in these groups of workers. So these are people who don't get to work and who don't get a red ear in compensation! This clearly seems to the government and the majority are quite right. Here are companies that don't get their key personnel, and there are municipalities that don't get their key personnel. Then I hear that representatives of the government say that children and young people are hit, and that now we're going to take care of their mental health. Yes, child care workers and teachers will have to come to school.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e963	Justice is probably a keyword and perhaps a keyword in retrospect, based on the countless times we have discussed the consequences of the pandemic both for people and for business. But there is no doubt that when the community funds are used, it is primarily to secure people and jobs for people. That is what it is about for the Workers' Party, and that is what is crucial. The greatest burdens must not be in doubt. Now, once again, when we sum up billions, the burdens are borne by those who have become unemployed, by those with the lowest wages, by the women, where equality is challenged, and by the young people, whom many have been in. So it's about securing jobs, making a social contract around it. And I just repeat what many have said in the past: it's totally unintelligible, completely incomprehensible, that one does not have a strong majority in this Chamber to say no to dividends, say no to cancel people at the time they receive support, or, for that matter, to make serious demands on the companies that receive support through the compensation scheme. There is no doubt that the compensation scheme is too poor. It's well suited to the big businesses, we've seen a lot of comments lately. That is why we propose a significant downgrading of the compensation scheme for the main businesses. But it doesn't look like we're getting a majority for it. Then there is no doubt that the smallest enterprises, which have been hit most directly by concrete measures for the protection of infection, are not adequately addressed by the compensation scheme. The compensation system is open to it, yes, but is it taken? No, no, no. That's the situation, and it's quite demanding for people and people's jobs. SMB Norway has conducted a study showing that 60 pst. - only 60 pst. – by SMEs, the large number of Norwegian enterprises, is taken by the compensation scheme. It's good to have 60 pst. is taken, but it is unusually demanding that 40 pst. not to be taken, not to come under the scheme, and not to have any support for it. It's demanding. We heard the Minister of Finance talk about the guarantee scheme for loans. Yes, it's only 2 pst. by SMEs accessing it – 2 pst. – from the study to SMB Norway. Then I am pleased that the Workers' Party, together with several others, has proposed a number of measures precisely to take better, safer people's jobs and safe people, and not least to ensure that there are the smallest companies, which are the hardest hit by decisions taken by the authorities to reduce the infection, which need more compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e976	The pandemic has gone from being a marathon without a finish line to a ski shooter’s bat fat with no specified number of rounds or penalties. But I sincerely hope that during the spring we will see a finish line coming to the front there. Most of us have a dream of what we want most when the pandemic drops the roof. We'll give someone a hug, invite guests home without thinking about the number, or go to the movies or a concert. But most importantly, at least for all those who are now on leave, it's that you have a job to go to, that just their job is still there when the crisis is over. That is why it is necessary for the Stortinget to grant 1 billion. kr to business now, and that it is set at another 750 million. kr ready to secure business in the future. These funds are in addition to an increased framework grant of 500 million to municipalities. kr. It's the municipalities all over the country that now have to distribute 1 billion. kr to business. And why is it so important to us that it's the municipalities that distribute these funds? Well, because it's in the municipalities business and jobs are, and it's the municipalities that know best which companies now have to get an extra handshake to get through this crisis. Since New Year I have been drinking many digital coffee cups with representatives of the hotel industry, the restaurant industry, the transport industry and other suppliers to the tourism industry and many other industries, as well as coffee cups with municipal politicians across the country. They all have different needs and different solutions. That is why I am absolutely sure that the scheme for the municipalities to allocate funds is the best way to ensure that the funds arrive quickly and as accurately as possible. I therefore hope that all the municipalities in the country have a simple, unbureaucratic system in place, so that the companies get the money quickly, and that companies like Barents Safari in South Varanger, for example. can get paid out funds that can ensure that they have a minimum crew, are able to pay their fixed costs in the future and are ready to start up as soon as our society opens up again and tourists come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e989	I wanted to comment on this solution to the proposal that exists on ferry tariffs, which seems to have a majority here in the Chamber. SV is happy that we get such a majority proposal, but otherwise we think it has been rather unprepared proposals – not especially this, but those that were in the vote. It smells a little electoral year of this, a kind of surrender, perhaps especially from the Advancement Party, in this matter. The fact that the Advance Party would have completely free ferries, has some strange and powerful side effects. Has the Progress Party at all assessed this? Should tourists, domestic and foreign, travel on the Norwegian ferries free of charge and create long queues for the local population during the summer? That's the kind of question you should have asked yourself, and that would have required a little bigger, more thorough investigation, not through a crisis package and a little urgent work with the election as a back cover. In addition, it costs about 3 billion. kr to let people travel for free on all the ferries. What about the high prices of train journeys and other public transport? Doesn't that party worry at all? Probably not. They don't exactly have any special love for public transport and trains, we've noticed that. But with a ferry it's a little different, because there's a car to be transported, preferably one and one. SV has had a different starting point for bringing down the ferry tariffs. First of all, we wanted to reduce the fares for the frequent users of the ferry, those who use the ferry to and from work. For them, the cost of travel becomes too high. That is why it was important for SV to get into the proposal that the commuters should be given priority, and I might especially ask the Minister for Transport, if he hears of this, to note it. It's e.g. the possibility of setting a ceiling for annual or monthly rental costs for each individual driver list. This is good to administer, and because it might just be 15-16 pst. by drivers who travel more than two to three times a week with the ferries, it would also be economically viable and possible. The reason for the price increase and the ferry uprising we have seen along the coast can be partly explained in two ways: There is an increase in the cost of zero-emission technology when required by new tenders in the county, and it is limited to dishonesty that it has not followed the money on the road to county councils when the county has adopted a partial order to do so. So it's this one with AutoPASS, which was partly a result of the coronary apathy. It means a very high advance payment to get into the AutoPASS system for ferries. Therefore, SV has proposed to set the fee at NOK 3 600 down to NOK 800, and there should be something all the parties here in the hall could support.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1006	Travel creates many important jobs, and we need to make sure that we have an up-to-date travel activity after the pandemic. In the government's proposition, it appears that they are not willing to remedy the travel life with guarantees to the Travel Guarantee Fund. In the meantime, the accounts for guarantees are rolled out to companies. The government says that they will await the situation in the guarantee market and that they will only take action if it turns out at a later stage that shortages of guarantees prevent positive developments in the industry. It'll be like drawing insurance only after the house has burned down. It also shows that the government does not wish to follow up the request decision of the Stortinget for which the Progress Party was given the opportunity to assess measures that contribute to the functioning of the guarantee market in 2021. Already this Norwegian package travel company, which has to bind capital in guarantees rather than keep operations running during the crisis, is affected. It has enormous consequences – not only for the package travel companies but also for the many smaller travel companies that provide their services to the package travel companies. I am pleased that a majority on the Stortinget supports the Advance Party in once again asking the Government to come back as soon as possible in an appropriate manner with proposals for a temporary system in which the State helps to restore a functioning guarantee market for package travel. I therefore hope that the government is now able to understand that this is something the Storting will have in place. Svalbard is an important part of Norway, and the Svalbard community has been in transition for the last ten years. An industry that, before the pandemic, has built up to become a major industry in Svalbard is the tourism industry. Luckily, the Progress Party was given a say in the State budget to increase the appropriations allocated to Visit Svalbard in order to ensure the operation of the destination company in the absence of quotas from its members. A survey conducted by Visit Svalbard shows that a representative sample of local enterprises has had an average decrease in turnover of 65 pst. under the pandemic. Svalbard has had stricter coronary restraints than the rest of the country, and then you have to look at a solution that ensures that you have a travel nutrition on Svalbard that is fully capable of resuming the activity when the pandemic is over. Previous crisis packages for Norwegian business do not hit the travel industry at Svalbard. Tax reliefs are measures that do not reach Svalbard, as they have a completely different tax system from the rest of the country. The funds provided to support local business are not relevant, and Svalbard also did not receive money from the local authority, as Longyearbyen local government is not a municipality. It is good to see that a unanimous increase is choosing to support the Progress Party's proposal for a targeted crisis package for Svalbard and that the government parties at Stortinget see that the government does not deliver on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1019	We see that the crisis is going wrong, and then you have to have a policy to correct imbalances and not strengthen them. I believe that the government has not taken on board how the crisis affects them at least from the outset, and the government has also shown no understanding of the situation of ordinary people, who are experiencing leavencies and redundancies in the crisis. The Prime Minister's advice that it was just looking for a new job is an example of the lack of understanding of the situation of ordinary people in the crisis that we are facing. The municipalities are struggling with the economy. The last two years have been the worst municipal settlements in very many years – we are talking 15–16 years. Then came the coronary crisis at the top of it all and gave many extra tasks to the municipalities at the same time as the income fell. It has been absolutely necessary to get the government to guarantee that municipalities will be able to cover lost income and increased expenditure as a result of the crisis. We're going to follow very closely if the government is actually going to settle the bill, as we've heard the government say in the Storting several times that they're going to do. We have signals that some municipalities believe that this does not happen. Then it is necessary to increase the housing stock. Housing support has been weakened by government in recent years, and it is a long-term challenge. With the cold winter weeks we've seen now, and a galloping power price, it's absolutely necessary to grab hold. There is a proposal here today, at this time a one-off payment to help cover the strong increase in electricity costs that people have experienced. It cannot be right that ordinary people should not be helped in a crisis situation, while some companies experience large payments from the state in emergency aid, without, for example, providing assistance. requires termination of dividends. It is completely incomprehensible that the government cannot participate in such a scheme. It's an unfair distribution of our common resources, and the government should, as I said, join in. So one last thing in the end, which I'll describe as -- I'll call it -- a national shame. It simply does not mean that we are faced with a situation like this that we have now done with regard to our cross-border commuters. They live in Sweden, short distance, some maybe just a few hundred meters on the other side of the border. They have worked in Norway — a short time, others perhaps for as long as both 15, 20 and 25 years — paid their taxes, settled and made allowances for themselves. So now they're just going to be cut off, without any possibility of income. This creates huge problems. This is a national shame that lies on the government's shoulders. Now the government has to clean this up – not tomorrow, they have to clean this up today. It's absolutely necessary to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1032	The business compensation system has been crucial, and it was very good. It was best because it was healthy. Unfortunately, it is no longer good. Time has passed, and it means a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises that for one year they have focused on their equity. 60 pst. by SMEs they say they are not taken by the scheme. Travel life and catering were closed in the spring of 2020. They were open and earned some money in the summer of 2020, but in the autumn the customers were gone again. The low income they've lived with, the low equity in the kind of industries, with very little they can pledge to borrow money, makes this not enough after a year of pandemic. That's why the Workers' Party proposed in November, when it became clear that there was a blackout for a lot of our companies, that they had to get a share of the income they used to have before the pandemic. We still believe that it will be important, because the support we give to our businesses needs to be seen as fair. The news that the compensation scheme is exploited by non-infectious industries weakens confidence and the sense of justice in the skill we are in. The EU is also beginning to react to the fact that companies exploiting the scheme are not affected by the corona, and that is not their justification. We must secure those who are particularly affected by the Korona. Travel is a big employment force, and a share of the income would be very fair. I am pleased that today's Workers' Party is proposing to save the destinations, an important infrastructure when we're going to open up again. The most important thing will be good support schemes for them. For the Workers' Party, it is not correct to include this in the compensation scheme. It is very important that entrepreneurs – and there are many of them in travel life, there are very many who start their own business – get a national system and do not depend on being in a municipality that is particularly affected, which gets a census on the municipal system. As far as package travel is concerned, it is important that the Stortinget today together ask for a concrete proposal from the government on how to deal with it – and it is urgent. It is also very important for the Workers' Party that we have managed to bring something about Svalbard, that we are able to climb Visit Svalbard and give our own order to the severely affected Svalbard community. In that city where I live, Narvik, one of the highlights of the year is Winterfestuka. It's scheduled to start on Friday, March 5. There were sold tickets for 18 events that would have 200 audiences. Then came last Friday, and they had to refund tickets and recalculate the audience. It is then very critical that none of the cultural aid schemes are open – not the incentive scheme, not the compensation scheme – when downsizing. Measures and support must go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1047	It's almost a year since the virus hit Norway. No one could imagine in March last year that it would have such long-lasting and serious consequences for us and the whole world. It has been an unreal year, a long year and a very demanding year for very many. It's put us to the test, a test our generation has never experienced before, trials we've only heard of in stories from generations before us. Since last year, the main goal has been to fight the virus back and control the spread of infection. Thanks to just effective infection prevention measures, high trust and the contribution to each in combination with powerful financial measures, Norway is far less affected both health and economically than other countries. As the Governor of the Bank said in the previous year, fiscal policy shall be applied actively when the economy is subject to severe shock. As it looks now, we'll have an extra oil money use of about 240 billion. in 2020 and 2021 as a whole. And the use of money has been and is still necessary and correct. In addition to extending the income protection schemes and adjusting, extending and continuing the compensation schemes, one of the important steps we are taking in this round is to significantly increase the framework of the municipalities so that they can support local enterprises which are either extra hard hit by the disease protection measures or fall outside the standardised compensation schemes. Young people and students have had a tough year and have paid a high price. This is why we are now increasing the framework for actions that can address some of the worst consequences of the intervention. So we do the same for the oldest. While we are going to have financial measures during the crisis, they need to adapt to the infectious situation. The virus continues to give us surprises, and even if we see the light at the end of the tunnel, we don't know yet how long the rest of the tunnel is. Future prospects for the Norwegian and international economies are also uncertain. The right will continue to do what is necessary to safeguard the security of people and the economy of families, to take care of jobs, to ensure competence, to adaptability and to secure well-being. Even if we are in a crisis, in the midst of the difficulties, we can find new opportunities. The Korona crisis forces us to think again and will be a springboard for new, green industries and increased value creation, among other things. through digitisation. This is why the plan for the way out of the crisis and how we facilitate the necessary transformation, new activity and growth in the future are so important – that we prevent the breakup of unemployment. For the pandemic and its consequences, the underlying challenges in the Norwegian economy are reinforced. We're going to pass this test, but what's clear is we have to create more and include more if we're going to have sustainability for well-being in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1063	Let me start by saying a few words about aviation. I hear a lot of people use the term ‘aircraft industry’. To me, it is uncertain what is meant by the aviation industry. I assume they mean aviation. I'm at least saying aviation, because it's a very important industry -- both those who work at our airports, those who work in the airlines, and those who work in related industries and industries. It's now a kneeling industry. It has been hit very hard by the measures introduced a year ago and almost overnight almost all of the market disappeared. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that we get out of the situation we are now in with all the three Norwegian airlines retained: SAS, Norwegian and Onkøe. It's good that the government is now in good dialogue with Norwegian, but it can't be that one now works so long to find a solution with Norwegian that one doesn't get a system that embraces the other airlines. One must remember that the airlines have not been allowed to participate in any of the other support and compensation schemes in which other businesses have been involved. In fact, the state has increased the purchase of flights, but there is a cost that the state has taken because one is totally dependent on a certain route offer in our country. It has helped the situation for the airlines. I have used the term ‘first aid’ in the past, but it is clear that when you have been receiving first aid for a year, you need to switch to other types of treatment. This is why it is so important for a company to have a compensation scheme in place for the airlines. Then I will mention the debate on ferries in the last few days. It's good that there's now a broad majority in Stortinget that will do something about the ferry tariffs, both on the national road ferries and on our county road ferries. We in the Workers' Party went into this after our programme committee started the debate. We went into the debate with an open mind and have been constructive in finding a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. When the Finance Committee presented its position, it was clear that there was a majority in Stortingen to do something about holiday rates, which in many places have greatly increased in recent years. I have on a few occasions previously mentioned the national ferry link over Tysfjorden in Northernland, where the ferry tariffs from 2013 have doubled. We can't have it that way. So it turned out that there was a majority in the Storting to do something about the holiday rates, but there was no majority for any proposal. So that's what we got into yesterday. For the Workers' Party, it has been important that we put in place a permanent arrangement. There's going to be a system where there's going to be half the fare on the ferries based on today's situation, and it's the state that's going to finance it. Then I'll bring up proposal No. 109, and that means we draw proposal No. 41 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1074	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1079	Holiday prices are something that of course occupied me, also as islanders. In my home municipality, Austevoll, we have suffered under high ferry prices for very many years. Longer than the Workers' Party's program committee has been busy with this, it has been a matter that has enlisted islanders and us in the Progress Party. In fact, it's been cheaper for a mountainer to take flights to London than to take a ferry to Austevoll for many years, and that's not how it's possible to have it. The progress of the game has long thought that the game prices are too high. There are many reasons why they are too high. One is that one has introduced the AutoPASS regime in many municipalities, which means that business and commuters have to pay more. Another reason is that a responsibility transferred in 2010 to the county councils, which has made it expensive through county priorities. The progress batch has been addressed for a long time. In our alternative state budget, we put in more money for a ferry ticket than any other party. We prioritised 200 million. kr in the 2021 budget. So no one should say that we have come after the Workers' Party – it's the Workers' Party that has taken this ball after us. I'll call their output for an election match show, when we look at the response they gave to our proposal in the setting. If they were busy lowering the ferry prices, they would have voted in favour of the proposal that lowered the ferry prices quickly. Then they wouldn't be busy keeping things alive and keeping the debate going and saying one would come back to it later. One had only voted in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party, which was simply to lower the ferry prices at half price from 1 March – i.e. next Monday. It is still possible to do so. If you're really busy setting down the ferry prices, it's actually the best way to achieve it, and then have a verbal decision saying that this is a permanent measure, which is going to continue until we've got our free ferry goal in place – a system that's quite logical because you pay toll by road, and the ferries are a natural part of our road. For this reason, only the Red Party and the Progress Party are currently supporting the best publisher today, to use 1.5 billion. kr to set holiday prices from Monday. I record that the Labour Party and the Center Party and others who give the impression that they are very busy about this, do not support the proposal that is the very best proposal for the coastal people and for those who are occupied with low ferry prices. Then there's a lot of people asking about the containment. I thought it was a little strange that a question mark was seen by covering 1.5 billion. kr to the coastal population and important economic operators. If you have a climate debate or a debate about accepting more quota refugees or providing assistance, no one is talking about containment. The impact is quite obvious: the coastal population will generate more value creation, create more jobs and ensure that there will be more in tax revenue. So putting down the ferry prices will be a good thing for our country. I still hope that the debate will turn someone around, so it is possible to set prices from 1 March. That is the main objective of the Progress Party. That's what we say to the voters, that we want to put down and halve the ferry prices from March 1st. If not, the solution that has been negotiated – with which Mr. Bård Hoksrud has done a good job, and which was put in place last night – is the second best solution: to do this in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1096	I can only notice that last week I was in the Questionnaire, together with the previous speaker, talking about ferry prices. It was with a slightly different tone then than it was now. So you can remember that, or go back and see what you said, since you say what you say now. I want to talk about those who are not invited to Teams meetings, those who do not meet with posters outside, and those who simply do not have the capacity to do so much more than get everyday to go around that far. Yesterday, there was a very important warning from 245 pediatric psychologists. They sounded the alarm about the most vulnerable kids, young people who can end up as the biggest losers in society after the pandemic. It's a blue light and an alarm that we all have to take over. You can ask questions if you have forgotten the psychosocial preparedness through the pandemic. Mental health wasn't high enough in a normal situation, and when there's a pandemic, where depression and social isolation become normal, I'm worried about going to a mental health call in this country. The time that is coming is going to be important for businesses, for work and for all of us, but for those who are already having a hard time, you need a strong commitment. I'm glad we're going to have more than 230 million in place. kr more for mental health care now than we would have had with the government. That's not enough, because we need lasting changes, lasting bets. When we hear about help phones flooded by people in deep crisis, and when FHI's own studies show that from November and December, there is one in four who says they're not satisfied with life, it says that these are vital priorities. The Labour Party and I believe that the government have to present a package to this very thing. I think we need to talk more about it. Of course, it's easier to talk about crisis packages, like we do all the time here, but this is going to be the big crisis after the pandemic if we don't do anything right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1107	It's a pleasure to record what kind of good opinion measurements the Center Party is doing with the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the other parties' willingness to bet on good district issues. I'm very glad that when there was a multiple in this room that wanted to do something about the ferry prices, we have got a solution to that. There's a couple of other things where there's also a multiple in the hall, but as far as I can tell, politics won't have multiples. It's very stupid when you have a policy that has multiples in Stortinget, but the decision doesn't reflect it. The first applies to the package travel company, i.e. those who have made an effort to postpone the journeys, and then have come out of the scheme. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and Red have a proposal that addresses this issue. At the same time, the Progress Party and the Centre are some of the proposals that are almost the same, which deal with the same. Ergo is the Stortinget willing to help those package travel companies that have made a real effort, and it should also be reflected when the Stortinget votes. The centre party is involved in both proposals. I hope there may be a dialogue, so that at least one of the suggestions gets the majority that it has in Stortinget. The second is the proposal to help the destination companies. There's a loose proposal, the Progress Party has an identically loose proposal, and in this setting there's a proposal from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Green Party, which also says that we want to help the destination companies. There's a lot of people on the Stortinget who want to do this, and then I think that as a party we have to talk and make sure that this proposal also has multiple numbers. It means something to the destination companies, but it would be a mockery to those who work in these companies if everyone in Stortinget says we want to do something about it, but we don't want to do it the way the other party suggested, because our proposal is a little bit better. There must be some noise, like we were in the ferry. We got a multiple, we got a change. I think that one should do for the destination companies as well as for the package tour operators who did everything right. They thought: we'll save the big community for this bill - we can cash out the money, but we choose to postpone the trip, we choose to postpone the trip, we choose to do it again later. But then it didn't go over, and then one had to cancel. Then to experience that the state comes and says eat bedding, they were too late out – that's impossible. We have to clean that up. There are, as I said, a number in this room, so I hope that when voting comes, the problems of both the package tour operators and the destination companies will be solved by a majority decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1122	As being to the Storting, I'm actually impressed by all the work that's being done here on this house and in the committees and the political environment in general to get us through this coronary crisis. Here are a lot of good purposes, and we work hard to satisfy many of them. But there's a way to go. There have been many meetings for my part with both business and interest groups, and this is absolutely necessary. It is necessary for the elected representatives, it is necessary for the inhabitants and businesses. They need to be heard. The way out of the Koronacrisa is to ensure that we build competences, that we include more, and maintain security and trust in the Norwegian community, and not least the political environment. We're going to get people to work, make sure that business has more legs to stand on, and that we have a job and a good community to go to after the coronary crisis. A commitment to skills and the most vulnerable in society is necessary. Further, it is necessary to organise measures to ensure a schooling, work and a viable future, both socially and economically. All right, let's go to the ferries. There have been many discussions around it, and especially in my state. We may be the country's largest ferry group, with 24-25 ferries. I am pleased that the debate has now come to a level where he belongs – in the state budget and in the revised budget. That's where we can make the priorities. Prices need to be a permanent measure, not a coronary action. Ferry prices have also been a hindrance to many people both because they have been expensive and because they hinder good construction and labour market regions, on which we are totally dependent in the future. This is well described by Victor Norman's demographic selection, which points to many of the paradoxes of today's ferry prices. I look forward to the negotiations on the revised national budget and the impact of these measures. So I'll just briefly say a little bit about the coronamides of the municipalities and the business community. There has been a debate here in the Chamber on how to deal well with the coronamides, especially for single-man businesses and small businesses. I'm absolutely sure of the device we're doing now, with the money we're giving to the municipalities, which is going to redistribute it to the business community. They have their shoes on and know how this works, and they might hit the businesses that we don't always meet with the general arrangements. So I have to appreciate that very much, and I know that it is very much appreciated in the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1139	It's always good to start with something positive. It's like the Stortinget is once again withdrawing the government and providing a majority to secure Torp Airport and Haugesund Airport by funds, which is very important for the two private airports. Getting a solution and ensuring operation out of June is important, and therefore we are pleased that we are now getting a full impact on the Stortinget, and that all the parties now support the proposal that the Progress Party has been on its own for a long time, but fortunately clearly putting together a majority in the Storinget all the way. So to the tragic thing: when I hear the workers’ party representatives talk very much about the importance of caring for and securing jobs and making sure that we have jobs in the future, it is a pity that the Workers’ Party together with the government parties ensures that there is a majority that there is still to be a difference between renting buses or owning buses. So you don't get very well because you own your own business and have built your own stone on a rock and borrowed money, and not leased. It's very unfortunate, and there are many, many concerned tour operators around the country who see that their business is about to end because you can't put this in place and support the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. Fortunately, there are some parties that do. Then I have to enter the roughness and the Senter party and ferries. If the Central Party had been concerned that we should halve the ferry prices – or the Workers' Party, for that matter – it would have voted in favour of today's proposals of the Advance Party, which will provide for a halving from 1 March this year. Unfortunately, we didn't get a majority because the other parties wouldn't be in it. It's a little strange that you've been out saying that you want to halve the ferry prices, but you can't support proposals that make it happen. It's like in our neighboring country it's actually free to travel with ferries, but in Norway it's not supposed to be free. Then it has been possible to reach a compromise, and I am pleased that at least there is a clear message to the government to come back to the revised national budget with proposals for a phasing-out plan and to ensure that ferry prices are reduced to half. But the Progress Party believes that we should do this right away. There are other parties that have been out there and said that they want to do it, but it's obvious that when the money goes on the table, you suddenly don't have the will to find the money. It's sad, and it's sad of both the Center Party and the Workers' Party, who have said it. It really means when you said it was roughness, and you had to agree on the proposals in this room, that they should actually support it. So I'm worried that SV is proposing to cut SEK 1.7 billion. kr to Avinor. There will be major consequences for both air traffic and, in particular, the infrastructure for air traffic. It's about ordinary workers working at the airports around the country, who are going to drive and build and make sure we have good, new airports in the future. It is a very bad proposal from the SV and it will hit ordinary people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1152	This is, as many people have been involved, the eighth package we have for treatment in Stortinget to compensate for the coronary situation. And once again, the package has been turned upside down in Stortinget. It has also been necessary this time, because the understandable corona measures for health reasons have been overcompensated on the basis of government proposals. It has been too poor for workers in terms of the possibilities of permitting, in terms of permitting benefits, and not least in terms of predictability. It was quite special to hear the Prime Minister in time before Christmas strongly reject that we should extend the period of leave. Fortunately, it has come into place. I have the impression that there is a lack of understanding that those who may have to consider resigning must do so three months before the termination occurs. The same has been necessary to the business community to provide the many people who have fallen outside the government's proposed compensation scheme with an opportunity to get the help they deserve. It's to give predictability, and when the government fails, it's good that the Grand Government rules. But there's one thing that's predictable with this government, and that's that they have something against Torp. Repeatedly, Stortinget has clarified that Torp will receive benefits that can help them survive during the period of closure we are now in – repeatedly – but when the government comes back, they have not followed up the regulations. That is, this time they followed up what was already adopted, with 35 million. So it's nothing for the period after the first tertiary. That's why I'm very happy that it's a majority – yes, I even think that the government parties may be allowed to vote for when they realize they're overrun – that they're now going to grant 45 million. kr extra to Torp and thus also 12 mill. kr to Haugesund. It has been absolutely necessary to put it in place, but what worries me is that there is a proposal for a decision that says: ‘The government is asking for rapid return to Stortinget if additional funds are needed to ensure the operation of Haugesund and Torp airports.’ It does not support the government parties, and that is a concern. I would like to thank here and now the representative of the Progress Party Morten Stordalen for a good cooperation and for the fact that on behalf of Vestfold we have managed to outrun the government this time. But the fact that the government does not support the decision is a signal that in the future we may have to settle with a government that has so far not followed up on Torp and Haugesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1170	The alarm goes to the organisations and to the specialist health services that work with children and the mental health of young people. We know that many people are struggling with their daily lives now during the pandemic, and in the last few weeks they report record hits by young people who are struggling with, for example. their relationship with food. I checked yesterday with ROS – Advice on eating disorders. They had before the pandemic "only" queue in Stavanger. Now they have cows at all their centers in Norway. The chat function beats new records every month, and they don't despair of reaching. I quote from an e-mail I received from them yesterday: We have much more serious enquiries these days. It flows in with requests whether we can give lectures for primary schools, secondary schools, Red Cross, health centres and more. Unfortunately, we have to say no too often because of lack of resources, although we are probably Norway’s top competence in this area. If we don't have the ability to give just this type of organization with more major government funds to survive everyday life, we'll send people into line for the specialist health service in a few years' time. We need to take it more seriously, and I would like the government to contribute more to the work of people who are now struggling with mental ill health, especially children and young people, and especially considering that we need to support organisations that work in the first line and have a low threshold offer for this particular target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1182	I want to get back to what several representatives have been concerned about today, and that is mental health and especially the situation for children and young people – I also have to say in particular in the largest cities, such as Oslo and Bergen, which have been hit hardest and have been largely shut down for a long time. It's going on for many now, I think, but we're also very many who, after all, are lucky in the situation we're in – that has family, and, like us, that's allowed to meet so many other people during a working week. But there are a lot of people who are struggling now. We look at the numbers that very many people experience symptoms of depression. Many are lonely, and psychologists and others who work with mental health in children and young people report that young people who have been healthy before are now struggling seriously. Therefore, it is high time that the Stortinget adopted a crisis package for mental health. But it's too late, and I wish the government had brought this to the Stortinget earlier. SV also proposed it in the autumn, because already then the experts called for an alarm. We received several reports that showed that development was in a very wrong direction. That's why this is high time, because it's going to take time to build up the capacity needed to get rid of all the people who need help now. I am also concerned – and really quite disappointed – that the government did not seek with the opposition to further increase this crisis package for mental health. It was a will from the red-green opposition to double the mental health package, to over 400 million. kr. Given the large sums we're discussing here, I think we should have found room to give increased appropriations to meet people's mental health properly. In the proposal from the red-greens, there is more money in particular for low-threshold mental health protection — that you should not be dependent on having to go to the hospital for referral. There are suggestions to lower or cut the percentages for young people under 25, so that they can get the help they need. It is also located among others. a proposal to allow private psychologists to receive reimbursement for taking away the queue that is now available for mental health care, including: Here in Oslo, where you'll experience having a waiting time of up to 12 months to get to the psychologist. Everybody understands it's too long. I would encourage the government to come back quickly to the Storting with further proposals, further appropriations, prioritizing this work. It's urgent, because that help is needed now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1197	I just thought I'd link some reflections to the debate so far, without going out on the dangerous path it's trying to sum it up, at least when more people can still draw. We have said throughout the crisis that the government should do what is needed to get Norway safe through the crisis. We've said that we want to use the entire toolbox, but what's important is that we have to use the right tools at the right time. That means that when the vaccination continues to go up, and the infection rates hopefully go down, we'll be able to open up the community more, the activity will get up. Then it is important to be able to adjust along the way. Just four weeks ago, an overall opposition adopted a number of requests that were just being addressed by the compensation scheme. I just want to remind you that at the time, the opposition agreed to give the low gas at a high level to the compensation scheme, in terms of both the maximum and the entry point, until the summer holiday. You didn't want to wait for any new assessments, but you didn't want to wait until the government made its proposition. But that's what the opposition meant four weeks ago, and then the reason was that you have to have predictability in business. Now, four weeks later, you want to lie down on completely different levels. I think it's good that we have this debate, especially when it comes to taking things down, so it's not meant to be any criticism of the opposition, but I think it's an important reflection because it shows the importance of being able to have a race where the government can follow the situation and make the necessary adjustments along the way, instead of fighting about locking the arrangements in the long run. So I'm going to ask the parties to learn from this, look at their own suggestions from four weeks ago and what you're presenting now, and maybe be involved in a reflection and a thought that it might be wise for us to set up races in the future where you get time to take a foot in the ground, see what happens in business and society, adjust the arrangements along the way and differentiate them. As I said instead, we're going to do what is needed to get Norway out of the crisis, but it's important that we have arrangements that make us think about the next generation as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1211	The most striking thing in this debate is that, in a row and in a row and with great pleasure, the figures of the government actually declare that the package was not good enough, that the measures were not wide enough, and that there was insufficient funding. The representative, Mr Kapur, said that the measures have been further reinforced through the treatment of the Storting, that it was important to strengthen the apparatus around and the measures against children and young people, and was pleased that the assistance to businesses through the municipalities was strengthened. The representative of Elvesuen said that it is good that this package has been reinforced by the decision of the Financial Committee. And the finance minister said that the changes of the Storting complement the government's proposals in a good way. This is, in fact, a strong judgment on the government’s ability to deal with this crisis through the package of measures. Much of what was proposed by the government was on order from Stortinget in January. But when the representatives of the government parties here in Stortinget and the Minister of Finance once again recognize that the government's proposals are not good enough – yes, why does the government not then have the ability to make better decisions? The representative Storehaug tried to mask the government's shortcoming by pointing out that it is important to cooperate well in such a crisis. Yes, it is. But why does the government not be able to be at the forefront of such broad cooperation on the measures? The weaknesses, which are only partially addressed in this treatment, are not new. They have been pointed out almost through all the previous seven action packages. However, there is still a lack of measures to prevent the money from going for the wrong purpose. It's the jobs we're going to help through the problems the pandemic creates, not the shareholders and managers of large dividends. We actually saw it under the budgetary agreement between the government parties and the Progress Party last autumn: the parliamentary basis of the government was in disintegration. The government has lost control. And when, in line with the Minister of Finance, the Limi of the Progress Party creates an expectation of further cuts in taxes and taxes in the revised national budget, it is obvious that not the entire parliamentary basis of the government has taken over the warning lights from the perspective – that in the future, growing expenditure will have to be dealt with with with falling revenues. It's just for the Minister of Finance to steel himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1224	If the government had put forward arrangements that would have been good enough, and showed the willingness to limit abuse and remedy the ugly unsocial consequences that the pandemic causes — yes, then we would have released many of these rounds we have now, for example. to mental health and health at all. In the middle of a lung pandemic, the government – and it seems that they are doing well – reduces the capacity for lung treatment at the Hospital Inland. At the same time, in the middle of a pandemic where children and young people are struggling with mental health, a reduction in treatment facilities in the Inland region is also adopted for mental health for children and young people. This is something Storting must intervene to stop. It seems that the government is letting this happen as if nothing has happened, and it is already before four months' waiting time for the people who need help on DPS in the Inland. And I don't know why the government has anything against the VTA companies, the cinemas, the sports facilities, the bath facilities and the community houses that are under municipal control. They do not receive support in line with those organised as private enterprises. These are very important institutions in everyday life, whether it's pandemic or not, but now they're more important than ever. So we have to make sure that there is no less activity in swimming pools and cultural houses and in VTA companies and sports facilities in the future. This is about everyday activities for children and young people and people who are struggling with both physical and mental health, so this is very important. I hear the government repeat and repeat that they have to include more. Yes, what is the reason why VTA companies are not included in these schemes? The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV, the Green Party and Red promote proposals for this to be incorporated into the scheme. These are some of the most important inclusion venues for people with major developmental disabilities or other physical or mental disabilities. But they're going to lose out now in this corona period instead of ensuring their business, so that they can offer spaces to more people, because there's a lot more places needed. Finally, I need an explanation from the government and the government parties about what they actually have against the cross-border funds, when there is no record of any spread of infection associated with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1241	I believe that for too many, both workers and hard hit businesses around Norway who sit and follow this debate, this appears to be quite frustrating. For them, it's not the number of proposals that are promoted, which is crucial, it's the number of dollars that one to seventh and last gets in the account. When expressing the willingness of different batches to support, for example, package tour operators who have had to cancel or postpone, it is important that an attempt be made to gather on some proposals that may be given a majority. I will make an urgent request. The centre party wants to be flexible. We have supported proposals both with the Progress Party and with the Workers' Party, but now we have to make sure to form a majority for something that can actually give real help to those who are hard hit by the pandemic. Similarly, it is for the destination companies. There are also different variants of proposals that are relatively similar, but then the Storting must be able to assemble, so that a majority and a clear order for the minority government that sits and obviously does not want to stand up for either the destinations or the package tour operators. The same applies to the event industry, to which I hear various parties argue that they are positive. But then we have to make sure that there is a majority of concrete proposals that will actually provide help in the real world, as the Central Party has contributed to this matter. Then there are some suggestions in the vote that fortunately have a majority behind them. I registered that the Minister of Industry instead commented on the proposal which had a majority in mind in the vote and which is based on a new guarantee scheme for the package travel companies. It is not just a friendly recommendation to the government. There is a decision in Stortinget that the Minister of Industry has a responsibility to follow up, and I expect one to sit down with the industry to get a quick follow-up. There has been a good deal of attention in terms of what goes on for own vs. rent and leasing. Among other things, I heard The representative of Hoksrud, instead, disapproves of the concrete importance of correcting that discrimination. But once again, there are various proposals in the vote that can get a majority if both the Labour Party and the Advance Party are willing to consider proposals from each other and the Centre party is in. We need to provide concrete help for those who are affected. Then I hear the government parties say that the most important thing is that the money comes out quickly. Well, it was at first. The most important thing now is that the money comes out to those who are hard hit, and who so far have not received good enough help. Yes, a system through the municipalities is important enough, but that's not enough. We need to provide better and more accurate emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1256	We have to talk a little bit more about ferries, because now it's said so many things from the Progress Party that can't at all be undisputed. Let me start by saying that the Progress Party and the Right over a long time now have the hungry feed the county municipalities. The income system was introduced in 2015, which means that the municipality of Nordland will receive more than 480 million. kr less to walk with. This, of course, has consequences. It's now a fact that from this year on, the ferries are getting cheaper, and there's a plan to halve the ferry prices. That's what's now happening through decisions in the hall. That's good for the coast. Then I believe that the Progress Party must decide: Is it good, or is it bad? Is it good to get lower ferry prices, or is it bad? Because that's the result of the work that was started by the Workers' Party, which is now in the hall. I think the argument that comes gets a little bit hollow. What is a fact is that the Workers' Party has presented its proposal for a new party programme, and there is a proposal to halve ferry prices. Of course, we've gone out and talked about that and said why we want to. Last week we were criticized in this Chamber for just that proposal, but then the Progress Party, which, of course, is not so well suited to the day, was a good proposal – so we have to start with an overbidden policy. How are we going to do that? Well, let's use crisis drugs to do it right away. That's how you would do it. But what's the situation is that we're now getting a majority in this hall. I'm very happy about that, and I want to recognise all the parties that are involved in ensuring that. We can talk about election fighting. It's a campaign this year. Everyone has to come up with a programme and everyone has to present their policies. That's the way it works for all of the parties. It's good to know what the different parties mean, that's fair. But a little bit of advice from another party, which also knows what it's like to lie a little low on the polls in the day: it's a good idea to spend time developing politics instead of just shooting at everyone else, and then it's generally a good idea to be a little rough instead of being petty. For the coast deserves what is adopted today. That's good. Ferry prices will be lower from this year. The ferry prices are going to be halved, and the Workers' Party started that dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1269	It is crucial that no one stands alone in this crisis. It must be safe and safe for the duration of the pandemic. Not knowing, the tumultuous turbulence, for individuals, for families, for businesses – it's with wonder I find that this is not the government occupied by, they're not some of it. They want a monthly-by-month policy, with the lack of emphasis on a busy everyday life for people and businesses. This was the important decision that was put in place in January, such as, among other things, holiday money on day money, but also here temporarily, not a permanent solution, as the Labour Party would like. Therefore, it is also important now to put in place schemes that can help those who have fallen between two chairs. The Labour Party believes what we said we wanted to secure the jobs and provide income security and security for those who were outsourced, and we are showing it over and over again in both words and actions. The cold period over a long period has resulted in high power prices, very high compared to what we're used to. We who are gathered in this room, probably don't have any problems with paying our electricity bill, but when the economy is trying initially, high power bills can roll over the family economy. The most accurate and effective way of remedying this is by increasing in chestnuts. Of course, the Community's resources shall not be misused or used out of the way, but it is difficult to understand the government's moderation strategy when it applies to those who have the least to receive support from the community for high electricity costs, in a strong contrast to the unwillingness to sustain them when there is a requirement to limit exchange when companies receive support from the Community. Where is the danger of abuse greater? There are a lot of companies that are hard to frame, and I want to bring out the small businesses, culture and travel and VTA businesses. There are unlikely many who fall outside the compensation schemes. Therefore, new arrangements, changes in arrangements and valve arrangements are so important that they can also be helped. No one should stand alone. Incoming companies and tour operators should also benefit from a municipal compensation scheme. Travel activity still takes some time to get back to the level before the corona. I must also strike a blow for the Florø–Bergen flight, which is now commercialised. But there's not enough traffic base. Now the business community where the extra penalty is that this box does not come in during a scheduled purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1282	It has been a demanding year for many, and the students have paid a particularly high price. Many have moved to a new city, ready for a new chapter in life, with professional mastering and new friendships. Then came the corona. It became a gray and dull year for many, alone on a narrow hive in a foreign city. That's why the new student package is 1.1 billion. kr so incredibly important. In meeting with the Student Association in Stavanger and the student leaders, I got a lot of good input, and there are especially three important actions we are now putting in. The first is to secure the students' finances. Many are totally dependent on an extra job to afford electricity and food, but during the coronary apathy, both work and income have been lost. Therefore, the Right is pleased that we are now fixing an additional aid of NOK 26 000, with a significant grant share. It's been a year of distance, quarantine for some and solitude for many. That's why, on the other hand, we're doing a real boost to students' mental health. In the past, the government has provided 10 million communications. For social low-threshold services, the Right has been involved in this crisis package and ensured more for social services, mental health and the Mental Health Student Phone. Income protection and social measures are important, but we also need to help students to keep up with the professional progress, because lack of access to campus makes it demanding. That's why thirdly, in addition to income insurance and social security, we're going to pay students to give their fellow students professional follow-up. With that, we solve two challenges: more students get a job, and more people get help completing the studies. I am very pleased that the government has been impatient on behalf of the students, and that as soon as the infection situation allowed, we opened up so that they could get physical education, sit on the reading room and meet in smaller groups to discuss and socialize. Together with the help package we are adopting today, do well. It's the students' turn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1295	The next speaker is Eigil Knutsen, who is currently the last speaker to be subscribed to in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1300	It remains to be seen whether I am the last recorded speaker after I have finished talking. I'll do my best. First of all, a little explanation of vote: motion No. 67 will be supported by the Workers' Party. It's good with a majority of lost stores. We must also look at those who have been shut down for a long time, but stress that in the case of November-February, not all of this can be forced into the municipal schemes. Then we will also vote in favour of the solution of proposals No. 108 and 112. The working party is opposed to putting all the challenges and problems into the compensation schemes. The original proposal of the Progress Party to save the destinations companies through the compensation scheme was a poor proposal. There are costs that are not fully covered and it complicates the entire compensation scheme. But we're voting in favour of these proposals and assuming that the government solves it through grants. So I want to say in general that behind many proposals that are being promoted here today, there are many good intentions that do not always receive the Workers' Party's support anyway, because there are disadvantages in complicate arrangements. There are disadvantages for the other beneficiaries, and there are disadvantages that destroy the fairness of the schemes. In particular, we point out that all problems cannot be solved by the compensation scheme. It must be automated and as simple as possible. Or, for example, in the case of completely new industry-specific schemes designed by the industries themselves: promoting them in the Storting and down to every smallest detail determines how they are to be designed, the Workers' Party will not be involved. But there is a warning to the government to promote action against those sectors that are struggling and that fall outside the schemes. If not, the Storting will become impatient and promote that kind of detailed proposal. Then I finally wanted to address Kapur, who said that the Storting gave off gas on compensation on 19 January. That is so true. The Workers' Party strongly supports compensation for companies with a fall in turnover. We also want to do that in the future. Our concern is that we have to trust the arrangements, and we have confidence in the arrangements when we also set some limits on dividends, cancellations and bonuses. With that, I thank you for the debate and cooperation on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1313	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has spoken the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1318	I have noticed that this debate has gradually become a debate about who is most for cheaper ferries in Norway. I think, to look great, that it's amazing that we've come there. After the Central Party has voted down proposals on proposals for reduced ferry prices in Norway, and only a few months after the Government Parties and the Support Party adopted a government budget where there is not a krona at reduced ferry prices, it is amazing that a majority of the Stortinget now gives a clear marshaller that ferry prices in Norway are going down. Then I also hope that when the proposal of the Centre Party, which is even more concrete and comprehensive – that we have to provide a maximum price for commuters, we have to provide free ferry services to the island communities that do not have continental connections, and some other places, we also have to provide a better ferry service – they are also involved in securing a majority for this, so that we really get a better and cheaper ferry and fast boat service for people in Norway. It deserves people and businesses around Norway who have high costs and too poor offers today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1326	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1343	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a replacement of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1350	This message is the second in the future of your message series. The consolidated annual report for 2019 is set out in an annex. The main focus of the case is on the importance of digitisation for Sami languages, culture and society. The Committee has reached broad agreement on the challenge of the Sami languages in the context of digitisation. This includes, inter alia: access to learning materials in Sami and the challenges of digitisation can give if the Sami languages are not included in the process. Digitalisation is a prerequisite for the preservation and development of the Sami languages, and users of the Sami languages must be given a digital offer equivalent to that of the rest of the population. The proportion of the population who use the Sami languages lives in dispersal. It reinforces the importance of access to good broadband coverage, creating an arena where users of the languages can interact even if the geographical distance can be large. It also opens up the possibility that they, for example: may make use of network consultations within the healthcare system. To achieve this, the Sami perspective must be included at an early stage in the development of digital services. The combination is concerned that digitisation should not lead to centralisation, and that infrastructure on both mobile and fibre networks should be deployed so that districts can participate in digitisation on an equal footing. The centre party proposed 236 million. extra for broadband expansion in the draft budget for 2021. The majority proposes to identify the remaining obstacles that need to be removed in order to provide a fully-fledged digital offer to users of Sami languages. It is a fact that these are obstacles, such as: low-adapted digital platforms, which stand in the way of providing users of Sami languages with a fully-fledged digital offer. In the treatment of the heart language, the size has been clear that there is a need to strengthen minority languages, in particular southern Sami and lulesamic. I hope the government will continue that work. Lulesamian is the Sami language with the greatest challenges and least training resources. Hamarøy is the only municipality that is Lulesamian administrative area. It is a local desire to develop the municipal school at Drag into a lulesamian profile school. The lulesamian core environment requires a specific training offer similar to that already available for Northern and Southern Sami. I also refer to the proposal to deal with the big news about Sami languages, culture and society in the spring session. The merger strongly wants the notification to be addressed by the Spring session Size so that it is as timely as possible. It appears that there is a strong consensus that action is needed to include the Sami languages in the digitisation process. That is why I am disappointed that no more seem to be voting for the proposals here today. Finally, I would like to make an explanation of vote. In the event of an incurrency, the Central Party is not on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox We shall vote in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1373	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1378	I would like to start by saying that it is very good that there is an overall committee that supports the principle that the state of Norway is established in the territory of two peoples, Northmen and Samer, and that both peoples have the same right and claim to develop their culture and language. The Constitution itself sets out the framework for this. The frameworks around them provide opportunities, but only if the Storing and Government follow up with appropriations, regulations and laws that contribute to the fulfilment of the Basic Law. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we follow up. That is why we are promoting proposals today that can help meet these conditions. The Workers' Party, together with the SV, promotes a proposal that the Government ensure that Sami languages are available in all digital services developed from the outset and that all public bodies support Sami letters so that Sami names can be used correctly. These are suggestions that I had believed and hoped that more people could gather behind, at least that a few of the government parties could join, but that doesn't seem to be the case. So I can say that it's not too late to sign up for those suggestions. In that case, it won't be used against these parties. The Workers' Party also promotes, together with the Centre Party and the SV, proposals for a review of obstacles that need to be removed in order to provide a fully-fledged digital offer to users of Sami languages. We also propose that the Sami perspective should be included early in the processes. Nor does it seem that there will be a majority for those proposals. It's also a little strange that you can't join in on such proposals, which could help make sure that the assumptions like, among other things. The Constitution provides, can be fulfilled, by being able to participate fully in society and fully in language development, as it is set up. Then we show that there are challenges with predatory losses and land pressure. The whole thing points to this, and it's not the first year the whole thing does. They've done that year after year. It is also a challenge that we have not been able to put in place an agreement on reindeer operations across borders with Sweden. It is a challenge, and such an agreement must be worked hard to get in place. Finally, I would like to point out that the Workers' Party in its proposal for the State budget for 2021 has invested significantly more money for broadband expansion than the government – 235 million. kr more, actually. The Labour Party also had a proposal for the current year's budget to increase the funds for the Sameeting by 50 million. kr. Both of these things would make it easier to meet the assumptions that I mentioned, by making it easier to continue language and culture and phase-in digital opportunities. Then I take up the proposal that the Workers' Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1393	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1398	This year, the annual message on Sami languages, culture and social life has a special focus on digitisation. Good digital solutions make networking easier, and it opens up activities that will strengthen Sami language and culture and also provide the basis for a stronger sense of coherence. Not least, in this context, I am thinking of those of the Sami people who live outside the Sámi nuclear realms. The development of digital services depends, of course, on a well-developed network. It's happening all over the country. The introduction of 5G will also strengthen the possibilities in areas where the infrastructure building has previously been shown to be necessary. The most important thing, however, is that we are able to develop satisfactory language technology solutions and that they actually come into use. Of the world's approx. 6000 languages are estimated that a third of them will not survive the transition to the digital information society. Sami language technology is an important factor in Sami survival as a language in the future. We'll talk about spell checking, proofing, keyboard and speech technology solutions, or educational software in different Sami languages. There is already a good work going on here, but this field is resource-intensive and in strong development, and in the years to come it will probably be necessary to make a significant effort for the Sami programmes to be involved in ever-increasing new programme and technological developments. Language technology should not only be developed but also used. Of course, the public has to go here, and digital access to public services in Sami will probably always be the bottom plank for what one else can do. This is not least the case in training. Digital solutions will improve the availability and quality of training and, fortunately, many Sami educational environments are already well advanced. The message we are discussing today shows the possibilities of digitisation for the Sami people. It's exciting, it's interesting, and it's exciting – many possibilities!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1411	This message is important because language is identity. It is one of the most important things we have, and that is why I would have hoped that my colleagues here in the Chamber might now have gone up and at least in cash rejected the proposal for a representative who was first promoted in the Chamber here today, to put down the Sameting. I will challenge my co-representatives to join in. Let's just park it once and for all. Language is identity and important, and technological development now gives us opportunities that we haven't had before, to use that technology to do what's been very difficult to do, that's to make all of these texts, learning materials and news and everything, available in Sami as well. That is why SV has been involved and made several suggestions in this setting. It is precisely to find out what obstacles are there, and to say that the Storting asks the government to ensure that the Sami perspective is taken into account at an early stage in the development of digital services. Among these, the Sámi offer must be mentioned in the allocation of new digitisation measures. When I hear, for example. The post from the representative Eidsheim from the Right, there is nothing in which I disagree. I see that the premise that comes from the Right in the post is that this must be done, that the technology must also support Sami language in the development that takes place on different platforms within the public sector and otherwise, i.e. the requirements that are set. Therefore, I am a little surprised that there is no support for the proposals that this should be a basic premise in the future, and I ask the Council of State to respond to it in its statement. In conclusion: Initially, Sameetinget wanted us to get a big message in line with and at the same time with the municipal proposition in spring, in order to base the same financial assumptions on the municipal proposition. That is what SV believes would have been the best solution. But now that the method of this forward-looking message has been chosen, it should come into the spring session, so that we can deal with it in a final fashion. It's been a little special this year, but as a matter of principle it should be. It is for the Storting to be able to say something about these premises forward towards the budget that we will get from the government as the first case at the start of the harvest holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1422	The theme of today's joint policy debate is digitisation. The aim of the government’s work is that all, including Sami language users, should be able to participate in digitised Norway. In the health sector, digitisation has made considerable progress. Sami interpreters and health professionals are increasingly just a keypress away. The digitisation of the new Sámi nurse training ensures that more people will be able to benefit from the Sami health care staff in the coming years. In the education sector, we see more widespread use of distance learning for Sami-speaking students, and the government has taken a boost to translate and develop Sami digital learning materials. In the last two years, we've spent $30 million. NOK to this. We want to give Sami art and culture a representative place in culture. We have launched projects to digitise Sami cultural heritage and material in the Sami archive. Now we propose to make support to Sámi newspapers platform neutral, so that digitised newspapers can also be supported. In the context of this communication, I have, together with the Minister of Culture and the NRK, discussed how we can create even better digital content for Sami users. Despite the government's efforts, we know that many partners experience that the language offer in the state and municipality does not correspond to expectations. A new mapping from the Digitalisation Directorate shows that there are few state actors who have information in Sami on their websites. Now we want to look at what measures we can take to get these numbers up. Over several years, they have built a strong Sami language technology environment at the University of Tromsø – Divvun and Giellatekno. They have developed keyboards, digital dictionaries, correcting programs and machine translation from northern Sami to Norwegian. This is a crucial tool for Samer to be able to write his or her own language on computers and mobile phones. In the future, it is also this technology that is needed to put in place Sami sign-to-speech technology and perhaps artificial intelligence. The Sámi language technology environment tells us that technology is in place, but some technology companies prevent Samer from using the programs on their mobile phones and PCs. I have taken care of this. Together with the Minister for Culture, I have met with, among other things, Microsoft, and I'm going to meet with several of the major technology actors in addition to spring just to look at how, together with my Nordic colleagues, I can get a stronger pressure on the companies, so that this is technology that becomes available to the Sami environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1442	We're approaching the calving time for pure, even though there's a few more weeks left. In recent years, the loss of reincalves, especially eagles, has been a major and major problem that has been reported. Many reindeer have great losses of calf to eagles, and not always because the eagle is hungry, but because it uses the reindeer calf as a training object when it learns to hunt, without necessarily eating it up, which makes the losses even more hopeless to understand. What will the Council of State actually do to reduce the loss of reincalves to eagles now, so that we don't experience in a few weeks what reindeer have experienced in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1450	I'm a little surprised at the question, since we're discussing digitisation of the Sami languages, and this big-mouth message doesn't mention eagles in particular and reindeer in general. These are matters that lie with the Minister of Agriculture, which I am sure the representative knows. As a Sami minister, I would like to say that I am very pleased that there has been an agreement on the reindeer management agreement, because reindeer management is important to Norway. It is an industry of great importance to the economy, to employment and to the culture of many communities. The maintenance of the necessary areas for future production and profitability in reindeer management is a major challenge. Not least, reindeer and cleanness face some of the challenges of eagles, but also cold, as we saw from the crisis last year. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1457	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1462	The Council of State referred to itself, if I understood correctly, as a Sami minister. Then it is alarming that the Council of State cannot answer a question that is so important, and which has been known for quite many years now as a major problem. It's not just language and digitisation we're going to discuss, because if the Council is looking for, the annual report to Sametinget is attached, as part of this matter. Therefore, I had actually expected to get a reasonable answer to what the Council of State had intended to do with the predatory problem. We obviously do not get an answer to that today. Then I can follow up on what was said from the Stortingen pulpit. The Progress Party has proposed to wind up the Sameting in the morning today. The working party strongly opposes such a proposal. Can the Council of State answer yes or no that the government will only reject that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1471	The government has been in close cooperation with the Sameting to present this message of digitisation to the Sami environment. We looked forward to the Storting discussing this particular matter today. So I encourage the representative to ask this important question to the Constitutional Council, and that is the Minister of Agriculture. To the question of the proposals of the Progress Party today, I would like to say that the government will not support a proposal for the closure of the Sameting. We believe that the Sametinget, the popularly elected body, is very crucial and an important premiscible and dialogue partner on Sami issues. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1478	Then you're out of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1483	Here, there were many points of speech and little content – in the answers I get to the important questions asked, among other things. on predators. What was good was that I realized that the Council of State said that the government would not go into and be close to supporting the proposal of the Progress Party to wind up the Sameting, so I think the Stortinget had settled that matter. It's very good for Stortingen to clarify it. I also think it's good for the Sametinget and the Sami environment that we can be so clear at once. I understand that I do not get any more answers to these predators, that the Council of State is not able to respond properly, but to the agreement on cross-border reindeer operations: we do not have an agreement with Sweden. What is the biggest problem for us not to be able to reach such an agreement? It could be interesting to hear what the council thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1490	That is a good question the representative asks. There are challenges related to the fact that it has not been possible to establish a convention with Sweden over time. It creates very big challenges for reindeer operations. Now we are pleased that the contracting parties have given a very strong priority to this during this year's negotiations, and the measures now being implemented will also reduce the negative impact and support the Norwegian reindeer operators. But like the representative, I agree that it is important that we get this convention and this agreement in place, and I hope that it will be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1495	I would like to follow up on Lauvås a little, because I am a little surprised when the council says that she is not responsible for the Sami reindeer. They even say in previous reports that the Sami reindeer is the bottom plank to preserve the Sami culture, and if it goes the flute, we don't have the opportunity to preserve and further develop the Sami culture. We see both this year and last year that the annual report points out that predatory pressure is the biggest challenge for maintaining reindeer management – the biggest challenge for preserving Sami culture. Then I am quite surprised when the Council of State has not taken any initiative in government to do anything about the predatory pressure that they are now saying is at a level that can challenge the possibility of practicing Sami culture in the future. What does the Council of State think about that? Is it insignificant to Sami culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1502	It is not surprising, in fact, that the Minister of Agriculture has the constitutional responsibility for reindeer farming.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1507	No, in no way, but as I understood it, the Council of State of Hofstad Helleland has the constitutional responsibility for Sami culture, and Sami culture is totally dependent on conditions being set up in the Sami reindeer so that it can continue. If the Council of State has not taken the initiative of its colleagues in the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Climate and Environment in relation to the predatory situation, which is the greatest threat to the Sami culture, I must say I am quite shocked. But I can go over to something completely different. When a forward-looking Storing Message was introduced, following strong pressure from the Sameting, the intention was that this Communication should give some signal to the budgetary process and give some signal to the budget process of the Sameting in the autumn. Therefore, it was a prerequisite that it should come so early in the spring that it could be dealt with in the Storting in the spring session. Will the Council of State ensure that it does so in the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1514	As a Sami minister, of course, I am very concerned about how we preserve Sami culture and Sami history, and there is the reindeer completely, completely central. That is why, as a Sami minister, I am not on a daily basis but on a weekly basis in dialogue with the Ministry of Agriculture and also with the other government councils responsible for the Sami. That is why we were also involved in the debate on the reindeer management agreement. Because Sami culture is so central to the preservation of Sami traditions, I have taken the initiative to now prepare a message to come to the Stortinge in ours, which is based on Sami business, where reindeer operations are central, but also look at how we can develop new industries in the Sami areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1520	It was then good that the council of state after a lot about and but managed to say that the government was not to shut down the Sameting. I had expected a clear no-response to that, in cash and nothing more about and but. But this message addresses the Sami language and digitisation, and it is important in the future. The SV has been concerned about is that we need to find out what obstacles exist in order for this to contribute to a lifting of Sami language. It could easily be hanging after now if we don't make sure that this is the premise being used when we're going to develop this. The council says she's going to meet the technology giants, and the public is a huge buyer and has a great purchasing power over companies with which to conclude agreements, including in the field of technology, in ICT. What kind of grip does the Council of State think about including themselves in this meeting, and what is to be achieved with that meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1527	If Andersen's representative found it difficult to understand how the government responds to the proposals of the Progress Party today, when I started my answer by saying that the government does not support the proposal to wind up the Sameting, I can repeat it if it was unclear, and say that it is completely out of date for this government to support the proposals of the Progress Party. Then I hope it was clear enough. When we met with Microsoft about the challenges that Andersen's representative addresses, it was also to understand what the real obstacles are. And they, like several technology companies, point out that they have different challenges related to facilitating more universal design, in many ways. We're going to do what we can from the state to put pressure and give clear signals on how to make the Sami language available on all technology platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1534	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1553	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the Government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1560	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. The proposal is to remove State Roads and County – as I would like to stress now, the State Manager – right of objection in municipal matters. How communities throughout the country will be allowed to carry out planning and development within the framework set by the Storting is something that creates a great deal of commitment to local communities throughout the country and which is of great importance to the development of the places we are happy to live in. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which stresses that spatial planning is a task for municipalities and local politicians, in order to ensure the best possible protection of local and regional interests. At the same time, the majority believe that there are several considerations that need to be balanced, and that although many parties believe that many objections go well, it is also considered that the proposers go too far. We must not go from one ditch to another. It is necessary to point out that within the local self-government of which the majority of the Committee is a member, spatial planning must take account of national and regional interests. The right of objection sought by the proposers to remove only part of the State sector authorities is an important link between the different interests linked to spatial planning. In this work, the majority of the Committee has come up with a proposal. I'm assuming that the minority is making their own proposals. I'd like to say a little bit about the Centre Party's vision. For the Centre Party, it is important that municipalities have sufficient resources and competence to work on land planning in the best possible way, otherwise there will be poor planning, and poor planning will result in increased noise and unnecessary conflicts. The central party believes that the development of Norwegian municipalities depends on a high degree of local political autonomy and an economic space for action. With ever-increasing impositions and demands from the state without funding, this space of action is weakened – completely independent of the coronary crisis. The Central Party believes that the State Manager should be converted into a purely supervisory, review and supervisory body and that all tasks relating to political discretion should be transferred to the County municipalities, with the exception of critical societal considerations such as the conservation of food soils. At the same time, it does not imply the waiver of the right of objection in all cases. State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning are below 2. Scope: ‘Practisation of the guidelines needs to be adapted to regional and local conditions.’ Many local politicians feel that not enough is being done. It creates unnecessary noise and places obstacles to development opportunities locally. The Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party, has agreed on a proposal for a comprehensive investigation of changes to state guidelines to strengthen development opportunities in the districts and local self-government. That's what I hope to have a majority. With that, I take up the proposal that the Central Party has with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1593	The representative Willfred Nordlund has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1598	We could have spent a lot of time on this, I'll try not to do it, but just make it clear that the autonomy of the municipalities is important. Then it is nevertheless such that a certain system of opposition from the state does not mean that it weakens the right of self-determination. A number of important hearing bodies support such a view. I can mention the Norwegian Tourist Association, the Norwegian Hunters' and Fishermen's Association, the Norwegian Free Air Life and the Farmers' Team as examples of this. There is also no doubt that land-use planning is a municipal task, and it is important that it is, because it can address itself and take care of local concerns and interests and local knowledge. But it is also the case that there are some overall national interests that we need to ensure can be heard and can be taken care of. Now, like others here in the Chamber, I have experience of sitting on the municipal board – I have even been sitting as rapporteur, and there are several of them in the Chamber – and in this regard, there were objections that we had to deal with. Of course, we disagreed with some of the objections that came, because we thought that we had taken the considerations that should be taken into consideration, while some of the objections – you might have to be so honest to say that – could also be understood, maybe we were stretching a little far in order to have something to negotiate about. It may be a challenge, but the thing is that we experienced that when we first came to the table to negotiate, we met basically sensible people, we got good solutions that provided the municipality's wishes and the national interests. It is the responsibility of both parties to use some common sense when making spatial plans etc. It is also a responsibility for those with a right of objection to use the possibility in a reasonable and good way. There have also been some changes and tightening and adaptations in recent years in these things, and I perceive that in general, there is common sense out there, both from the municipality and from the state. I will address the proposal of the Workers' Party with SV on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1609	The representative Stein Erik Lauvås has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1614	For the right, for the seven years we have been in government, it has been important to strengthen local self-government. The government has reduced the direct over-management of the municipalities very much. This applies to everything from reducing eartags to more self-righteousness, cf. the characters of the Planning and Building Act. A number of changes in laws and regulations have been made to this effect. Among other things, there have been several sensible changes in planning and building laws, and there are such changes in laws that are necessary to increase local self-government, not how the State organises its counter-instance. To remove the rights of the State administrator and the Road Administration and to move him to a department in Oslo and at the same time to have the same rules in the laws of planning and building and the same plan hierarchy and the same plan requirements and the same nature diversity law will not solve the challenges faced by municipalities. The proposal for the Progress Party is a record bomb in relation to the needs of municipalities for change. And if there are no laws adopted in this hall, the government officials are going to take care of it, the government's planning guidelines are adopted by a government. The impending State Secretary Per-Willy Amundsen of the Ministry of Local Affairs led in the pen what led to the planning guidelines that are also in force today. The proposal for the Progress Party in this matter is centralising. From having the State administrator and the Vegsvesenet with counterclaims outside the municipalities, they will now centralize this to an office in Oslo – under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs, as the State administrator is today. But as mentioned, the administrator and the Road Administration are now decentralised out in the country. I can't understand anything but that local relationships will no longer be recorded, if the Progress Party gets what they want. Is it so that only in Oslo it is to be written contradicts, that the Progress Party wants everything to be controlled from Oslo, that the central power should gain more power? But the Progress Party has one point, they're supposed to have one point: there are a lot of speakers out there who are frustrated that they don't get what they want, but with good planning, they get it. The counter-sign statistics are clear: they will be informed if the plans end up with the government. Right, it's not the State administrator and the Road Service that's the challenge, but it's the law that makes them contradict. And here comes more good right-wing policy from the government soon. There have been no changes in the beach zone regulations and changes in the exemptions in the planning and building laws. On the right, we look forward to the treatment of the changes in the planning and building laws here in this room, and I sincerely hope that we will have multiple numbers, so that we can change the planning and building laws so that the municipalities can actually get more autonomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1629	It's a little strange to be FrPs today and sit quietly in their place and hear the district minister say that it's completely out of date to support the proposal of the Progress Party that was presented today, and not even read the proposal before one dismisses it. And now witness to the representative Trellevik, who – I don't know what foot he has stood up with today, but if a read about the policy of the Progress Party in this field, about vending the County, as ‘centralising’, and something that doesn't respond to the needs of the municipalities, then I begin to wonder how long one has been in the Oslo bubble and not been out and up and hearing how local democracy has been, how local politicians from all parties experience the situation. The description right now given is far from the reality of our proposal, but it might be useful now when we go into a choice. Some of us still hope that we will have the same number of large numbers afterwards, but that means a lot of how the relationship between the two parties is, or between the four bourgeois parties. It is quite obvious that those who stand for local democracy, and not at a random bureaucracy in an office in Stavanger, Bergen, Oslo or where the State has its own – must ensure a strong Progress Party, for there are clearly two different descriptions of reality. We're out in the country talking to local politicians from all sides, and the feedback we get from both Labour Party spokesmen, Central Party spokesmen and Right Spokesmen is: Can't they do anything with this County? He's ruining too much of our ability to control our own community, he's producing contradictions according to contradiction, and we're spending a lot of time arguing with the representative of the state. It's not like it's right now that the County only takes care of the Size and Plan Guidelines. No, the County has its own agenda, and it's limiting the room for action to local democracy. That's why we need some politicians here who make some suggestions. It's completely wrong what Right says, that there's something wrong with it; it's actually the administration of the law. I looked at the number of countersigns that the statesmen have been using. In 2019, the two countersigns march every day towards a local initiative – one before lunch and one after lunch. In addition, there are complaints about dispensation cases to an even greater extent. In other words, this office and local politicians are harassing local politicians, and the Progress Party is clearly the only party that addresses it. It's useful to note when you now go into a big election fight, that if you want local democracy, which we've had since 1837, and which is to decide on local questions, you have to actually support the Progress Party. If you want a strong state, because it's the State that's going to decide, you can vote on one of the other parties, including Right, which in previous posts were able to go up to the levels of the policies that the rest of the majority of the population have applied, and it's disappointing to register.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1640	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1645	Yes, with joy!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1650	Then the representative Helge André Njåstad addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1662	The world is facing two existential man-made crises. There is a loss of natural diversity and dangerous man-made climate change. According to the International Natural Panel, land use interventions and degradation of nature are the main cause of loss of natural diversity. At the same time, the Climate Change Panel's Special Report on Climate Change and Land Area shows that the way we use land is a significant driver of climate change. That's what this case is about. It's not about a random bureaucracy or bothering local politicians and local people, it's about taking care of that natural base and the resources we have, for us seas and for future generations. The proposal is to make it easier to build inalienable values, nature, food and beach areas. That says SV no more. The weakening of the country’s right of objection in these cases weakens the security mechanisms of today’s land management – which is too weak – and weakens the efforts to achieve the objectives that everyone, except the Progress Party, says are important to achieve. The National Audit Office has examined this and points out that the municipalities today do not safeguard the national interests of natural diversity, open-air living and soil protection according to the objectives of the Storting. Although Norway has committed itself to halting the loss of natural diversity, it disappears bit by bit and ecosystems, natural habitats and biodiversity are being reduced. It suggests that the scope of objection should not be weakened, but strengthened. Do local politicians get good enough professional advice and facts? No, we also have studies to show that we know far too little about the nature for which each municipality is responsible. The municipalities are responsible for stopping this loss of natural diversity. That is why SV has now again put forward proposals to strengthen their competence, and we have also made proposals in the budget to launch the monitoring that will give local politicians the basis of fact and that they will also receive competent advice in their work, which is so important. In the setting we have shown a lot of reports that the government has also ordered and that show that there is a wrong path. Therefore, I would like to signal that SV is against the changes announced by the government to liberalise the planning and building law in these areas. We can increase local democracy on the day that the skills and facts are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1675	Responsible governance is constantly finding the right balance. The State's right of objection is an important balance sheet instrument, but it shall not be used in outlaw proceedings. As a long-standing local politician and rapporteur, I have prejudiced and will still falsify the fact that the sense is fairly evenly distributed in the Kingdom, including among politicians and bureaucrats at the three levels. This is understood – and then I am not talking about the personal, but about the collective sense, which fortunately is a product of political discussion and a cohesion of the majority's flows and the needs of the minority – is fundamental to our democracy. But we have different roles and different societal tasks. Sometimes what is tricked from the perspective of municipal authorities is contrary to national policies in this area. That's why we have the opposition institute, and that's why we have to take care of it. The best way to take care of it is not to use it outright, but to use it when needed, and the opposition mechanisms have been improved in recent years. In 2013, coordination of state objections was launched as an experiment in some counties and established as a permanent mechanism in 2018. Since 2019, the scheme has included all county offices, now the State Manager. The coordination involves an overall assessment by the State Manager of its own objections and objections from state agencies such as the State Road Administration, the NVE, the Coastal Agency, the Fisheries Directorate, the Bane Nor and the Directorate for Mineral Management. This shall be done before any objection is sent to the municipality. Objections that are inadequately justified or contradictory may be dismissed so that they are not promoted by the municipality. An overall committee refers to the evaluation of the 2016 pilot scheme, which showed that the objections are better justified and state agencies more solution-oriented than before. We are on the right track, and there is no reason to scrap the right of objection, as the Progress Party suggests. But they'd like to hang out a little while when they're free from the prison of responsibility and once again can jump and dance on populism's green meadows. Used in a sense, the opposition institute is not a threat to local democracy, but on the contrary, a balancing valve in the overall governance of the country. At its best, the administration and the political bodies at the municipal, state and state level play each other better together. Then we do not have to throw one of the tools for this, but continue to break it, so that it can be used with precision and wit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1690	The aim of the government is to strengthen municipal autonomy, to limit state and regional detail management and to reduce objections from state authorities. We trust that the municipalities take their responsibilities seriously as planning authorities, and that they make good balances between use and protection, land and resources. Government and regional bodies can therefore only raise objections to plans which conflict with national or substantial regional interests or which, for other reasons, are essential for the subject matter of the body concerned. The government works to strengthen dialogue between municipalities and state and regional authorities in planning matters. The aim is better plans and less use of objections. As part of this, we have strengthened the co-ordination role of the State Manager. The coordination implies an overall assessment by the State administrator of its own objections and objections from other State bodies. Objections that are unfounded or contradictory may be rejected. National interests shall be taken into account by the governors on behalf of several ministries. Thus, the State Manager is responsible for ensuring that many important social interests are safeguarded in spatial planning, such as: social security, soil protection, climate and natural diversity. It is therefore not unnatural for the State administrator to be the State actor promoting most of the objections. The State Road Administration promotes objections on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, including: where local decisions favour the development of national infrastructure. The Road Service may also promote objections to municipal plans that conflict with, inter alia, national transport policy. road safety. The State Road Service may also raise objections on behalf of Nye Veier AS. If the State Manager and the State Road Administration were to be deprived of the right of objection, we had to find other means of safeguarding national and significant regional interests within their areas of responsibility. At the same time, a number of other state agencies would still have the right to object, actually 15 in the number. The result would be neither effective nor predictable for the municipalities. In practice, municipalities may choose to bring all objections to the Department for decision if they so wish, but the number of cases brought to the Ministry is very low – around 20–35 years. This suggests that the objection mechanism works essentially well. If all objections were to be dealt with by the Ministry, this would lead to more centralisation, longer processing time and less room for finding solutions locally. Local selfgovernment is and must be strong in Norway. More than 98 pst. all spatial plans are approved by the municipalities themselves, either because no objection is raised or because the objections are resolved through dialogue. I think it is positive that the cases are resolved at the lowest possible level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1709	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1714	I think I should start with a zipper. I listened very well after in the post to the Council of State, but he did not comment on it. Earlier today, we heard the representative, Njåstad, say that the Prime Minister has his own agenda. Can the Council of State please explain to me which agenda is the State Manager allowed to set up on its own, as claimed by the Parliamentary Chair?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1719	The Governor’s agenda is to take care of national interests and follow up on the leadership provided by the government and the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1724	That was an exemplary clear answer. This cannot mean anything other than that the representative will make a serious mistake when he claims that the Heads of State have a separate agenda when they exercise the authority they have been given by the King in the Council of State. I also heard the representative Trellevik today talk about the need to amend the Law on Planning and Building, and he put similarities between removing obstacles to municipal autonomy and strengthening local democracy. At the same time, I fully share the concerns of the representative Karin Andersen about the changes that are taking place on the globe in relation to climate and biodiversity. I agree with the reasons put forward by the representative. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something about the following: In what areas does the government intend to weaken local democracy by giving stronger leadership? Is there a basis for this in the light of the crises we are facing, or does the Council of State have concrete plans to remove obstacles to the municipalities, thus giving them greater autonomy to strengthen local democracy, for which Trellevik argues?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1733	I believe that in what is local matters, municipalities should have a great deal of local freedom of action. That's why we have, among other things, the proposal to be exempted from its own plan if there are no national interests or significant regional interests involved. Typically it could be that in a separate municipal plan you have said that there must be three floors in a building where you want to build four or two, or that you want it to be business premises on the first floor, but then change and find out that there should be housing on the first floor. It's not a national interest. There's something the municipality should figure out for itself. Then we have done a good deal of work to define more clearly what are the central areas of interest of the different departments, just to be clear on when there is a basis for an objection, and what interests should be safeguarded. This is to make the job easier for the state administrators, of course, but also for the municipalities. When they're going to make their plans, it's very good for them to know what to do with, and what is a national interest and a clear and clear national leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1740	That I am very much in agreement with is a wise approach. But let me try again to give the Council of State the opportunity to be concrete: is it so — in the light of the challenges we face, where land disposal has consequences for biodiversity and for climate change emissions for the nation, for example. in the construction of ants — that the Council of State only considers, as argued for by the representative Trellevik, to abandon government governance in order to safeguard national interests? Or does the Council of State actually see some areas where there may be a need to strengthen State restrictions and rights of objection to municipalities in order to safeguard national interests in order to preserve biodiversity and combat greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1745	We have very clear planning guidelines in Norway today. Nevertheless, municipalities do not always want to deal with them, and that leads to objections. Of the objections I received on my table during 2020, there are more where I have thought that the national considerations must outweigh the wishes of the municipalities for local development and construction in individual cases. So it has to be weighed in each case, I think. Among other things, one of the things I've decided, in Bærum, the Avtjerna, where it was wanted to expand a large area that didn't have collective coverage, and which is lying with Marka on both sides. They were refused because that kind of consideration must weigh heavily in these decisions. It depends on the state level guidelines, which are located there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1751	I noticed with interest the Workers' Party's line that went to my comment that the countymen occasionally had their own initiative and their own opinions in the county. An example of this is back in 2010, when the late County of Hordaland, Lars Sponheim, irritated the late mayor of Bergen, Monica Mæland, by expecting higher tolls due to the air pollution in Bergen. Then the late mayor said that one took care of the county office and had his own agenda. My question to the Council of State is: is it such that the view that the state has taken its own initiative has changed in the right, before the present, or is it still an example that the statesmen think things politically and have their own agendas for how they want local politicians to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1758	This was before my time as a municipal minister, and what leadership the red-green government at the time allowed the County State to function, I cannot answer for it. I can answer for what practice is like today. In particular, as was the case at the time, the State Manager does not have a separate agenda, but manages the leadership, guidelines, laws and rules that result from the accumulation and government has determined. Whether this was the case at the time that the red-green government thought it was the basis for the State Manager to believe that the toll rates would be higher in Bergen than the city council had decided, I do not know and therefore cannot comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1765	I think it was pretty much like the time that now, simply that the County Council takes care of the signals he gets from here, but also takes its own initiative, my thing and is an actor who has his point of view, who often goes across the vision of local democracy. So there are so many issues that are being raised at the municipal councillor's table, changed and changed, precisely because the county council has a different understanding and a different assessment than that of the state council. When the municipal minister has to change so many things that end up on his table, does it not tell us that it is because the county council is in the best interests of both the municipal minister and the local democracy, that there is therefore a small point in the Progress Party now taking the floor, and that it should not be denied as directly as the representative of the right did from the pulpit instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1772	It is quite right that the Ministry sometimes has a different assessment of a case from that of the State administrator, and that is also why the matter is brought before the Department for Decision. But it is important to stress that there are between 15 and 35 cases decided by the ministry each year, and there are 2000 cases that are self-approved by the municipalities each year. So it's a disappearing little portion that ends up at the department table. That's all, mostly being solved either locally, without any challenges at all, or through mediation and what I perceive as a constructive dialogue between the State Manager or various agencies and the municipality itself. It could be that you, for example, has an impatient state council in the field of transport that wants to build a road very quickly, and a municipality that basically wants something different for the regulation plan than the State Road Service or New Roads. Then you end up having to meddle. Then you agree on a result that both parties can live with, and that is the very best thing. I want us to have a system that makes it possible to find good solutions locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1779	I noticed with interest the statements of the Council of State and to the extent that the exchange of lines you now had. It is an interesting point the representative Trellevik made it clear that Per-Willy Amundsen, as State Secretary in KMD, was involved in the preparations for the current state planning guidelines. What I am asking is: does not the Council of State, given the noise and debate that many of these guidelines are creating, both here in the central east and also in the districts, mean that there may be reason to point out what it says, that the guidelines should be practised on the basis of regional and local conditions, precisely with a view to getting less noise? I experience when I travel around, that there are often no adjustments, both from the County State and other government agencies to raise objections: that you take a general principle, and then you don't go into matter and see whether these are local and regional assumptions that the government's planning guidelines say should be taken into account, which you don't do when you raise objections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1786	As the representative himself says, it is clear from the planning guidelines that local and regional considerations and adaptations should be taken into account. I fully agree with the representative, and the statistics also show that all, most of the issues are resolved in a good tone, either by the municipality itself adopting the matter, or by the dialogue with the relevant actors agreeing on a solution that everyone lives well with. Then there are a few things that eventually end up on my table, but they're the exceptions that confirm the rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1791	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1798	This is the last opportunity we have for a debate on the State – unfortunately not because we want to get rid of him, but because we need to replace it. Think if we could also be allowed to replace the mandate. We are all talking about the importance of local self-government and how important it is to our democracy. But it's going to go exactly as far as you want to, as long as you don't decide anything that others disagree with. I know that from home. It'll be like the woman. She always lets me get the last word as long as it's a clear 'yes well'. There are many reasons to change the ability to review municipal decisions – the importance of local self-government, of course, but also the enormous cost and time-use that affects the entire community. Many municipalities are struggling with their own attractiveness today, and local politicians are trying to raise issues about how to better exploit the specific benefits of the municipality. There may be plot sizes, attractive nutrient areas, better exploitation of the beach area — at all, creating good growing conditions, raising population growth or just being able to maintain the population. It is then felt that unanimous municipal government decisions are set aside by a unanimous bureaucracy. It is incredibly frustrating and really takes the desire from one in the further work. That you have appeals and mediation, you can probably look very good on paper, but if there's something you should have in such cases, it's good time. Imagine if we had known how many thousands of hours of work are thrown out of the window, which gives zero results, by sending letters around with vision and review. Unfortunately, there are a lot of things that could have ended well, where one could have agreed, but they are not realized because of the time spent and that the use of money is not for the people involved. I am thinking here of things that are not close to having neither regional nor national significance. On everything from outdoor area to a multi-hulled dwelling or whether a nest shall have a useful area of 35 or 40 m 2. There are fillets of no national or regional interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1816	I take the floor to make an intrusion between a message of concern and a strong warning. I warn against the total disclaimer of responsibility for humanity and our next generations. I warn against what the Progress Party represents, and the flows represented by the liberals – the free-running politicians, the all-er-permitted politicians – in Norway and in the rest of the world. They are totally turning their backs on the UN's tough climate panel and their warnings. They are completely turning their backs on the world's natural panel, also administered under the UN. For the Progress Party, it means nothing if the temperature in the world is increasing. For the Progress Party, it means nothing if areas are built up, built up and split up – nothing. It doesn't mean that the world's animal populations are more than halved in my adult life. The right-wing governments, with and without the Advance Party, have made it easier to expand. It's a reality. To the representative Njåstad: Yes, the governor is all the wing clip. He's clipped something violent. The number of objections has fallen after the ministry has asked for it in several circulars. That the State Manager has continued to raise many objections, what does that mean? Well, that means that there's actually a lot to protest against. This means that there are many threats to the degradation of Norwegian nature and of Norwegian cultivated land, for example. So now, the Advance Party is going to remove the entire control that the law of natural diversity is being followed, and that our soil protection targets are being followed. Makan! So we're going to have to remove all of the concerns that can stick the screws in the wheels for any expansion. That is the position of ultraliberalists; it is the Progress Party's position on Norwegian land management. One thing is that the Progress Party will often have speed and tension to land and to water, whether it's snowmobiles or water scooters, etc. I can live with that, because a government can change when we get a new government. But I warn Stortinget, and I warn the voters, as strongly as I can against this party that is now in free dressage outside the government. We can talk about autonomous bulldozers in this context. If they're going to have diesel and the Advance Party program on their mind, I'm afraid!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1831	I took the floor again, I should perhaps have done it a little earlier, to help clarify what is really the reality of the various proposals the Progress Party has promoted, and not least what is our view of the concrete proposals. Thus, the State Manager is set to take care of national interests on behalf of several ministries. The Ministry of Local Affairs is just one of them, for both the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and not least the Ministry of Climate and Environment. This implies that the State Manager has a responsibility to ensure that a number of central social interests referred to by the Council of State that collapse and government have been established are safeguarded in spatial planning. Then it is important to point out that one of these is actually social security — a theme that this hall debates relatively much, and that people are very concerned about. Another is soil protection, which is something that this hall debates a lot, and which carries out a number of discussions outside the community. It is not least about climate and natural diversity. This is a matter of less concern, namely what is also proposed – to deprive the State Road Administration of the right to object on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, among others. where local decisions favour the development of national infrastructure, to my knowledge that the representative Njåstad has previously been involved. It is an important point that the Road Administration can promote opposition to municipal plans that are contrary to national transport policy, inter alia, linked to: the coordinated housing, land and transport planning and not least – and perhaps most importantly, especially in the period of the year we are currently in – road safety. It is one of the main rights of objection which the Progress Party proposes to remove from the State Road Service, namely to be able to raise objections to proposals that do not ensure road safety. It is quite serious and something we have so far not been involved in the debate. In particular, it is the State Road Service that raises objections on behalf of New Roads, because they do not have the right to object themselves. The central party believes that the core of the proposal is the Progress Party, is a moment in the debate and an objective which, of course, is to give municipalities greater autonomy and the ability to control their own development. After all, there is an intention that many parties, including the Right, and not least the Advance Party, have been raised, and that the Centre Party is pleased that there are several parties pointing out. At the same time, however, we need to have a national framework for how to manage the interests that go beyond what is happening in the local area, i.e. road safety and important societal and preparedness concerns, which I was in the process of dealing with. Such considerations include: The Road Administration of the State and the State, now the State Manager, shall take care of. I am in principle in order to limit the right of objection as much as possible, and that is in the proposals we have made, but at the same time we must be able to take care of the interests of the big community. After my formation, a lot of that work is already in progress, and I hope we can manage not to go from one ditch to the other in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1850	First, I notify you that we are voting in favour of the one transmission proposal in the vote, from the Labour Party and the Center Party, which is about to proceed with this. Even if the debate hasn't given us so much hope that when we see what the party is behind it, it's just as good to get a deal. We think it is a pity that we are not supported by the proposals we have, especially when one has followed the debate. We were a little inspired when we read on September 3rd in Stavanger Aftenblad the headline «This was the drop – now Right-Tops will cut wings in the county.» And then we thought, well, now the Right is in on the right track, now it's going to be in the right track. And then we could read a headline in Bergen's Official Journal from the representative Trellevik's home municipality, Eyegarden, where the spokesman asks for even more liberal beach zone policy. He complains about the County, and he also says, as I could say from this pulpit, that there is a horrific coastal zone policy in the municipality based on how the County Council behaves. Another example from that municipality is that the Minister for Fisheries wants more farming, will facilitate more aquaculture, and have given a concession to an operator. Then one would believe that it was the task of the County Council to put in place national policies, as the Minister for Fisheries wants. But no. The County Council is opposed to the Minister for Fisheries and is counterproductive, not based on a current level, but on an imaginary level in the Old Sund municipality. Then there was a proposal for a municipal plan. Instead of adhering to the current municipal plan, which is legally binding, stick to a draft plan that was never completed. So this is how the County operates. It frustrates local politicians. Our leader, Svein Otto Jakobsen, has seized this. I should have wished that the Right would have been more on the team with us here. But I record that when the representative Bransdal says that the Progress Party has escaped from prison, it is in a prison they feel, both the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right. They clearly feel trapped in this system. This may also mean that the Right Application Committee has proposed that there should be some intensification in this area. When they tell you, it sounds like everything is perfect as it is today. But their software design for the next bulk selection program is actually going a lot in the direction of us, that one should delineate countersigns, one should keep them for control only. So it might be very interesting to challenge Right in the debate now: Does the program formulation mean the status quo, or does it go in the direction of tightening? The selectors read it as a narrowdown, but the beauty phrases about how unnecessary the proposals of the Progress Party are can give the impression that the Right is very happy with today's situation. So I challenge someone from the Right to say something about: Ask the program proposal about the status quo, or is it asking that one goes in our direction in the next period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1860	I wanted to have the opportunity to ask the Council of State questions relating to the National Audit Office's studies and the research project EVAPLAN, which points out that national interests are not being safeguarded in the municipalities today, such as natural diversity, open-air life and soil protection, according to the aim of the Storting. That's what we need to talk about in this case. I want to get the Council of State's assessment of this: what is right when we know that this is not taken care of today? I have known the Council of State for a long time and realized that he has had a genuine commitment to both the climate and the environment. This must be important interests that must be safeguarded in the future. That's what SV is busy about. It is the national interests here that may also be threatened by the sum of all the small decisions, which, in themselves – individually – do not look serious, but in sum can become a heavy burden. It is necessary to look at what kind of evidence we have to make these decisions in the future. The Council of State does not know that it is in place – so the municipalities do not get enough information about the decisions they are going to make, because the diversity of nature, for example, has not been identified. Many municipalities lack competence in this area, so that local politicians do not receive good enough professional or competent advice to make the right decisions about what can be used and what cannot be used, without jeopardising other qualities that we as a nation and on which the world is totally dependent. I miss the Council of State saying a little about this, I missed it in his posts. Some people say this is just about bureaucracy and individual politicians getting angry. No, it's not about that. It's about future spring. If we're going to be able to get food in the future, we have to take care of the food ground, and we want open-air areas that people can use, and a beach area that exists for people and not just for developers. These are important societal values, important values in the future, for which it is up to any government to take care of – not only in words but also in the law underpinning them. It must be strong because the interests to expand are great. Of course they are, and it's legitimate, but it's our responsibility to take care of these values also for the generations after us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1871	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1888	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1895	Before going to the specific proposal for a representative, I would like to point out that it is a challenge for the Stortinget that similar proposals and adjacent proposals and partly overlapping proposals have been dealt with in the Stortinget for a long time. So having an overview of the position of any party at any time is actually quite demanding. There may also be some background to the broad consensus in the Committee on how to deal with the draft representative for consideration, even though there are clear political contradictions at some points. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of the proposal, which propose both veto rights for local authorities and welfare offers and also the possibility of reversing offers in the event of a threat to public supply, provide a broad majority in the Committee which agrees with the Council of State that there is already a large local space for action to ensure this. With regard to point 3 of the proposal, I would like to point out that it has been discussed earlier in the period of the same committee. A majority of the Committee refers only to its comments and proposals on this occasion, while a minority in the Committee has specific comments relating to it. With regard to points 4 and 5 of the proposal on transparency, the Council of State in its response to the Committee refers to the three important works being carried out — both the welfare services committee, the revision of the disclosure law and the revision of the archival law. I would like to point out that there is an overall committee that believes that transparency in how the community's money is used to provide welfare services is important, and that is a matter of principle. So some points of view especially from the Workers' Party. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, will recall that the Government is required by a request decision of the Stortinget to come back with legislative changes that clarify a distinction between ideal and commercial private providers. It was imposed in 2018. Now let's write 2021, and we're still waiting. I remember when Prime Minister Erna Solberg was going to go on as Prime Minister and she stressed that now it was going to be a different dance, and you should have respect for the Stortinget. One of these failed to follow up the request decision on evidence of respect for the Storting. Controlling how we actually use the community's funds, collected through taxes or other ways, is a fundamentally important way of doing it, and it can't depend on who provides the service. Therefore, it is important to come back with a way of ensuring transparency in both the local government and the public. The government has to do that. It is, in principle, important and democratically important.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1910	Local democracy must work. It is the municipalities that are responsible for providing welfare services, and it should be up to each municipality to what extent they want to use private operators together with the public authorities. The important thing for the Right is that the municipality should put users, citizens, in the centre and be able to provide the best possible services. The variety of ideal and commercial actors allows municipalities to complement the public offer. That action room doesn't want the Right to remove. The organisational form itself is not the guarantee of quality and efficient operation of services. If we follow the line of Red and to a large extent remove the private actors, we will continue to have an approximate public monopoly in many key welfare areas, and that does not want the Right. In the draft representative Mr Moxnes writes: «The municipalities and county councils shall have the right to say no to commercial establishment and to reduce capacity whose commercial companies threaten the public offer.» Yes, within the framework of the various sectoral laws, municipalities themselves have to assess which contracts they wish to conclude and what conditions are necessary to ensure that the various actors provide services that are for the benefit of the inhabitants. It's good local democracy. I am concerned that the inhabitants will get the most well-being out of each penny. The important thing is not whether it is public or private that is behind the offer, but whether the quality and content of the service are good. The representatives from the left, with the head of the Red, call for legal distinctions to be introduced between ideal and private kindergartens, and for municipalities to be able to demand that private actors be ideal. It is not so easy to see that there is a crystal clear line for where such a distinction should go. I want us to continue to have a diversity of ownership and operational structures in the kindergarten sector, I think it's a good thing, but I recognise that over time development makes it necessary to look at both the follow-up to the existing law and whether the law is good enough. I hope that we will have a chance to do so, among other things. when the report of the Welfare Service Committee has been at the consultation stage and the relevant proposals from there will be considered. Then I will end by quoting former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg: «The market has created products, has been innovative, has been innovative, in such a way that the authorities could never do». We still have to remember that we are not in danger of throwing out the child with the bath water.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1928	These are not the first proposals we are dealing with on this issue. There is reason to recall that commercial and non-profit actors providing welfare services can complement and compete with local public services. It is ongoing in several sectors. Within the framework of the various sectoral laws, it is usually up to each municipality to which quality requirements they wish to impose on private suppliers. Local authorities’ own requirements for the quality of services are in addition to those imposed by law and regulation and contribute to the adaptation of the services to local needs and priorities of municipalities. In some contexts, actors who provide what is called welfare services have to the public, the public that – we should call it – the only customer, sometimes they have their practices entirely or partly based on private funding, that is, the user pays everything, or that it is reimbursement. Then this becomes a little bit complicated. That proposal concerns, is a general access to municipal veto law against commercial operators, and it is not eaten against one or the other, but is just a general consideration of a municipal veto right. It becomes inappropriate and accurate. For example, such a right would allow the municipality to prohibit the establishment of a private physiotherapist's office, which intended to address only the private market. It's going to be a little bit clever. The Centre Party has supported and promoted several proposals aimed at avoiding the profits of large international companies operating in this area, and not least proposals aimed at increasing transparency, inter alia. cash flows and facilitate the increase of the proportion of non-profit actors. I believe that everyone, including the government, shares the view that developments in the kindergarten sector, which are slightly different from some of the other sectors providing welfare services provided by private individuals, sees that this development has been unfortunate and that there must be some grip. I also perceive that is about to happen. It's e.g. now, after consultation, whether local authorities should be allowed to decide whether new private kindergartens should be reserved for the ideal actors. I would like to stress that for the Central Party, it is important that we have a regulatory framework that limits commercial profits from private providers of welfare services when it is the public that finances it. We have to have an access to control this, but we have to have a law that is sufficiently precise, and that weighs down more considerations. The proposals promoted by Red are designed in such a way that they do not distinguish between the different types of services or take sufficient account of the fact that conditions are different around the country. Although we can share our intentions, it is a matter of proposals that require further investigation and delimitation, which means that we do not have unintended consequences. It is against this background that we point out that this must come in the follow-up to NOU 2020: 13, from the so-called welfare services committee, when the government is going to present it to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1943	SV believes that child protection, kindergarten and care for the elderly should not be a store, and we believe that this is a fundamental and important position. There is a clear distinction between well-being and business operations, and it wants this government to erase. There is a bad use of public funds, and there is a wrong purpose. That is why I am pleased that these proposals are coming. They're many now, and they're similar, but it's good that we're going to discuss this. I want to use school and kindergarten as an example. I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party and the Center Party do not support the SV's proposal on this, because it is about the fact that both private schools and kindergartens can be approved by the state. The municipalities have to accept the establishment of it and also have to be involved and share the bill – so take away from the municipal budget and finance these schools and kindergartens, sail if they may not have the money and sit in processes where they have to cut their budget. And then they might suggest going to a primary school, because that's after all, maybe what hurts at least. Then there's a private school, and the hoops are the whole savings away. And then you have to take savings in other areas, where it might be directly irresponsible. The freedom of the sea to determine the school structure and structure of the nursery sector means that the municipalities, as well as the county municipalities, should have in the case of secondary schools. We believe that they have to have if they are to take responsibility for the entire offer they are to have in many areas, because there are systems in place where you are without control over your own expenses because you have this approval system that makes the state approve, that establishment cannot be refused, and that you cannot refuse to pay in. If you're sitting there and you have to reduce the offer, you're going to have to put down the public kindergartens and schools and not the private ones, because you're not allowed to do that. It surprises me at least that the Workers' Party and the Centre seem to think this is a good arrangement. So it doesn't look like SV. Today, therefore, we are promoting proposals to change the law so that municipalities and county councils have decision-making power over school structure and the dimensioning of school provision, as do kindergartens. SV promotes several of the proposals made in the representative proposal from Red, in the vote, and I address those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1954	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's to be humiliated at noon. 15th There is now a call for voting, and the debate on substance is closed. 10 goes on after the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1968	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting. The President makes it clear that there is a long voting – perhaps not so demanding, but long. In one of the cases, there is no less than 112 proposals, so follow along, and put away the mobile phone. The majority will vote first on the remaining cases from Thursday 18 February, case No. 4-11 on Agenda No 52.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e1984	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hege Haukeland Liadal on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 2, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party and the Centre Party proposal No 3, from Kari Kjønaas Kjos on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No 4, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider introducing the labelling of forms of treatment and medicinal products which have not been shown to be effective but which are alleged to be capable of treating different conditions.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2018	President! The button did not work - or I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2023	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2035	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the setting up of a working group to work out proposals for authorisation schemes and discussions on what alternative treatment industry can provide for health care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2050	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging review of the entire system of registers for alternative treatment, in view of changes that could enhance patient safety and consumer protection and impose quality requirements on the services offered. The exemption from VAT for registered performers of alternative treatment that meets new quality requirements is assessed in such a review of the registries system.» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2068	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a large-scale notification of quackery, proposing restrictions on actors who deliberately promise health benefits where this is not sufficiently proven and where the level of penalties for infringements of the law is reviewed.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2104	During the debate, Mr Kjerkol presented seven proposals on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that health professionals who are employed in public hospitals do not have private beesights targeting the same type of treatment and the same patients for which they are responsible in the public sector.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate whether private health professionals are carrying out more over-treatment and whether these actors should be more likely to bear the risk of complications and damage in the event of non-priority public health interventions and come back to the Storting on a case to this effect.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the practices of full-private providers for the prescription and referral of medicinal products, and for proposals for stricter regulation if practices indicate systematic differences.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for review of private operators’ practices to keep customers paying off and for regulatory proposals to ensure that there are health priorities, and not payability, that provide the fastest treatment.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to pay a turnover tax on private health insurance in order to strengthen public health care.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to set up a public body to review developments in private health professionals and private health insurance in Norway and to propose measures to prevent a two-tier healthcare system.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a ceiling on dental care in cases where public social welfare schemes are intended to cover all or part of dental care.’;» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2170	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-9, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 10, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 11, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party proposal No 12, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No 13, from Åshild Bruun-Gundersen on behalf of the Right Party, the Party of Advancement, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 13 was changed during the debate and now reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that rapid tests can be used in hospitals in order to better facilitate the partner’s participation in the follow-up to pregnancy and in childbirth and maternity.’ There is a vote on proposal No. 11th from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that all health establishments comply with the current requirements for accompanying services and in the long term change the limit of accompanying services to 60 minutes’ journey.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2210	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that a full-fledged maternity ward in Kristiansund becomes part of the future hospital structure in Møre and Romsdal.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2227	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-9 and proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide for increased staffing of maternity care as an emergency service and to follow up the Health Directorate’s recommendation on a standard of manning to ensure the safety, quality and one-to-one care of women in active birth.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further stepping up the empowerment of midwives in the municipalities, including several combined positions in the municipality/sickness for midwives, objectives of whole, permanent positions and an assessment of new funding models for municipal midwives.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote its own case for the Storting to increase the practical capacity and training capacity of midwives.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to require all health businesses to draw up long-term plans to recruit, maintain and train health professionals in food establishments that meet the need for good quality in maternity care, and to provide the Storting with annual status reports on this work.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortingen with a separate case to legislate on the obligation of health businesses to provide accompanying services for pregnant women, in order to provide sound services and safety for the child.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the health care companies to step away from the effort-driven financing of the food supply and to develop a new funding model for women’s clinics, maternity wards and feeding rooms, which assumes that the quality requirements for maternity care are to be met.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all women with childbirth are offered to stay in the maternity ward for the time it normally takes to establish breast-feeding. Early printing shall be the woman’s own choice.’;» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a basic principle for maternity care that families have to be guaranteed a close and accessible high-quality food supply, irrespective of their place of residence, and ensure that health care establishments govern accordingly.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a safe and future-oriented birth care by developing today’s food institutions and ensuring a decentralised food supply.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure predictability of birth and to facilitate that all birthing women may be the result of partners during childbirth and childbirth, provided that the interests of the protection of infectious diseases can be properly taken into account.’ The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2292	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that rapid tests can be used in hospitals in order to better facilitate the partner’s participation in the follow-up to pregnancy and in childbirth and maternity.’ The Greens and Reds have given their support to the proposal. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2325	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2344	Three proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Bengt Rune Strifeldt on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 2 and 3, by Nicholas Wilkinson, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking that, in the case of tenders for patient travel, quality must outweigh price, and that health care establishments draw up tenders at fixed prices to ensure that different providers compete on quality, such as: waiting time.’» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2372	President! I voted wrong. It has to be 6 and 83.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2377	The result is that 6 representatives voted in favour of the proposal and 83 voted against. That does not mean that the proposal is inconceivable. There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that patients who have to travel to and from institutions if these are closed, for example on weekends, are covered by patient travel legislation.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2396	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to incorporate the following changes in patient travel legislation: 1st@item: inlistbox The total patient's travel time shall be weighted in order to give priority to the most appropriate means of delivery. 2nd@item: inlistbox Introduce a flat rate for travel allowances which are automatically paid in emergency and scheduled hours in a hospital. 3rd@item: inlistbox Allow patients to pay an allowance if they prefer to travel with more expensive means. 4th@item: inlistbox Determine the fare based on actual costs, i.e. an increase from today's driving rate of 2.7 kroner/km. 5th@item: inlistbox Ensure more flexibility in the regulatory environment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2442	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2461	During the debate, Mr Pollestad put forward two proposals on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to negotiate with the EU with a view to reducing duty-free quotas for imports of agricultural products from the EU into Norway as a result of Brexit.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to reject new negotiations aimed at further liberalising trade in agricultural products under Article 19 or other provisions of the EEA Agreement.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up. The Greens and Reds have announced support for the proposals. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2607	The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2620	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2634	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2646	During the debate, Sandra Borch put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government immediately asks the government to refuse the application to build the NorthConnect foreign table.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. Red has announced support for the proposal. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2679	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ole André Myhrvold on behalf of the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Bears Moxnes on behalf of Red There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The reduction assumes that the new conditions of compensation for the host municipalities and landowners of those facilities are to be based on the assumption of a fall-back after 60 years adopted by the Stortinget in 1962.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2703	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size assumes that the current stringent environmental requirements for hydropower deployment and environmental audits are taken into account in the conversion of Røldal-Suldal concessions to new concession conditions’.» The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2720	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘At the same time as considering the application for the conversion of Röldal-Suldal concessions to time-limited concessions, the Government asks the Government to decide on the opening of the review of the concession terms’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to treat the audit case in a non-discriminatory manner with the treatment of previously renewed watercourse concessions municipalities, including with regard to concession terms for the establishment of nutrition funds.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2759	The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2771	The size of the store is then reduced to the number of cases. 1 to 8 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2781	Case No. 1–6 is the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 67 to 72. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e2795	A total of 112 proposals have been put forward during the debate. Proposals Nos. 1 to 100, which was submitted during the Committee's proceedings, is included in the vote on pages 90 to 124. In addition: the proposals No 101 to 104, from Kari Elisabeth Kaski on behalf of the Socialist Left Party the proposals No 105 and 106, from Seher Aydar on behalf of Red proposal No 107, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party proposal No 108, from Helge André Njåstad on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 109, from Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party the proposals No 110 and 111, by Eigil Knutsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No 112, from Sigbjørn Gælsvik on behalf of the Centre Party Proposal No. 41 were withdrawn during the debate. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 98 and 99, from Red. Proposal No. 98 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e5854	Proposal No. 99 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the municipal compensation scheme provides accurate expenditure coverage for serious enterprises that have been closed down, inter alia, that it also compensates for stocks that are lost due to local infection protection measures or come back with proposals for an extended and more accurate system to ensure this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e5867	There is a vote on proposal No. 100, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the maximum payment from the compensation scheme so that each entity can pay a maximum of 20 million. crowns for each of the two grant periods in the months of March to June 2021.» The Greens have announced subsidized support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e5884	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 96 and 97, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e8992	Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government asks to set a ceiling of 10 million. SEK per company per grant period for distribution through the business compensation scheme.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e9005	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 93 and 94, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12024	Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the calculation of grants is based on the total loss in turnover, and not only on determined costs in the business compensation scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12037	There is a vote on proposal No. 95, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare a description of ‘Green shipping’ in the GIEK Ship Financing Offer with an extended amortisation framework of 18 years’.’ The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12054	There is a vote on proposal No. 90, from the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the establishment of a day-to-day payment scheme for newly-trained persons with no ordinary earnings, following the model of the scheme for newly-distinguished protected persons.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12069	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 91 and 92, from the Green and Red Environmental Party. Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The government is asking for a rapid assessment of the prospects for the receipts of tickets by public companies in the period following the facilitation of the measures to protect the disease, and for proposals to prevent routine cuts and to encourage travellers to return to public transport when the infection is under control.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The government requests to include costs related to lost stocks in the compensation scheme or to submit other proposals as soon as possible to ensure that industries with high costs related to losses on stocks of goods receive increased support.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12094	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 85, 86 and 89, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to adjust the supplementary loan scheme so that it is possible to receive the grant without receiving the loan rate that cannot be converted.’ Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to secure compensation for municipalities in order to strengthen staff in municipal welfare services such as care for the elderly, school and kindergarten.’ Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the owners of companies receiving grants under the business compensation scheme cannot pay dividends unless the grant received is first repaid’. The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12123	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 87 and 88, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to lower the ceiling of the business compensation scheme for the maximum monthly cash support paid per enterprise to 10 million. kroner per month. Amounts above this amount may be disbursed as loans.» Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that beneficiaries of grants from the business compensation scheme cannot pay dividends or make a share buy-back in the remainder of 2021 and in 2022.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e12147	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 82 to 84, from the Central Party. Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e14938	Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The budget asks the government of the business compensation scheme to include tax write-offs for balancing group C and balancing group D in the compensation basis as of March 2021.’» Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to provide a compensation scheme for aviation as soon as possible and by mid-March at the latest, in line with the clear framework and requirements set out in Request Decision No. 553 from Stortinget on 19 January 2021, which also contributes to compensating for the major losses caused by aviation in the pandemic.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e14956	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 75, 76, 78 and 81, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess a system to ensure language and working life training for out-of-work and out-of-work immigrants.’ Proposal No. 76 sounds: «The government is asked to make the necessary changes to ensure that persons who have lost their income in full or in part as a result of the pandemic, and thus do not meet the maintenance requirement for family reunification, are exempted from the current and future income requirement. Exemptions from the income requirement must also be made for other residence grounds, such as self-employed and freelancers, in cases where the income has been completely or partially lost as a result of the pandemic.» Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal for green conversion requirements in the Korona aid through the compensation scheme, the loan guarantee scheme, the State bond fund or a new hybrid scheme where the compensation scheme is combined with a loan scheme in excess of the maximum amount.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to take the necessary steps as soon as possible to ensure that the owners of the house provide a 10-30 pst reduction in rent. for the months March to June 2021, for establishments supported by the business compensation scheme.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e14989	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 77, 79 and 80, from the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reduce the advance payment to AutoPASS for ferries to 800 kroner’.» Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include, as soon as possible, lost stocks in the business compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draft a proposal on how the business compensation scheme can be made progressive so that the subsidy becomes relatively larger, the smaller the enterprise.’ The Labour Party has announced its support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e15018	There is a vote on proposal No. 74, from the Central Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to come back with a proposal for a temporary reduced serving tax from 25 to 15 pst. for the last four semesters of 2021.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e15033	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 71 to 73, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17289	Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend state aid schemes to the cultural sector, so that they are based on the same assumptions as the general business compensation scheme for the rest of the world. [[cost coverage]] Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how shops and shopping centres that can indicate strict measures to prevent infection and to detect infection can be kept open.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17307	There is a vote on proposal No. 70, from the Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to include fixed ordinary common costs invoiced by farmers’ tenants into the concept of fixed unavoidable costs in the business compensation scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17322	There is a vote on proposal No. 69, from the Party of Advancement and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish an application-based system to cover documented loss of stocks for industries that are directly or indirectly closed due to central or local infection protection measures.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17340	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 66 and 68, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for additional appropriations if necessary to ensure that all those receiving Nav’s benefits, such as unemployment benefits, housing allowances, social assistance, minimum pensions, daily allowances and the like, receive a one-off allowance to compensate for excessive electricity prices. The payment shall not lead to benefits in the form of benefits in kind.’;» Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government to facilitate the transparency of deferrals of payments for tax claims to the State in accordance with the specific rules established in the context of the coronary apathy.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17362	There is a vote on proposal No. 65, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to the Storting as soon as possible with a proposal to include the Authority’s mandated maintenance in the general business compensation scheme.’ Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17379	There is a vote on proposal No. 64, from the People's Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the alcohol law so that municipalities can easily open up the possibility of temporarily selling alcohol to take home, in the same way as grocery stores.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17394	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61–63, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 61 sounds: «The government is asked by the government in the context of the revised state budget for 2021 to submit proposals for a financing mechanism whereby the State fully takes on the additional costs of climate change in the fast-boat and ferry traffic of the counties. The scheme must capture both the measures implemented and the measures to be taken in the future.’» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of regulatory maintenance and oversight costs in the business compensation scheme from the month of March 2021, for example by applying for compensation for maintenance and oversight costs equivalent to 1/6 of the average annual maintenance cost over 2 or 3 of the last year.’; Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include the costs of disease protection measures in the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17421	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59 and 60, from the Advance Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the amount limit is set at NOK 30000 when the requirements for the content of the application for compensation from the compensation scheme must be certified/confirmed by the auditor or accounting officer, as it was in the old scheme, and returned to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’;» Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Government requests the reopening of the 2020 grant scheme for grants for reimbursement of package travel originally to be carried out during the period from 14 March to 14 March. June 2020, so that those trips eligible for grants for which no grant was applied for in the previous wave may be covered.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e17444	There is a vote on proposal No. 58, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20218	There is a vote on proposal No. 56, from the Progress Party, the Center Party and Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the inclusion of a membership quota in the travel life destination company as permanent unavoidable costs in the compensation scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20233	There is a vote on proposal No. 57, from the Party of Advancement, the Party of Centers, and the Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to propose immediately measures to remedy the situation of exceptionally high electricity costs and to return to the Storting in a timely manner.’ The Workers' Party has announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20250	There is a vote on proposal No. 55, from the Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose schemes that could take the smallest enterprises, such as hybrid loan schemes/loan schemes, where the government guarantees 100 pst. of the amount, and return to Stortinget as soon as possible.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20265	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52–54, from the Party of Advancement, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 52 sounds: «The government is asked to include the permit costs for January and February in the fixed-cost compensation scheme.» Proposal No. 53 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that companies owning own resources are treated in the same way as companies such as leases and leases of equipment.» Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget of 2021 with an obligatory timetable for the reduction of ferry prices, on both national and county roads.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20293	There is a vote on proposal No. 50, from the People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to include closed events under the auspices of the organiser industry in the support scheme for public open events, where this extension is intended in particular to meet Norwegian event agencies and companies with the following NACE codes: - 77.39-40 Rental and leasing services of other machinery and equipment n.e.c. - 82,300 Congress, trade show and exhibition activities - 82.990 Other business support services n.e.c. - establishments registered under other NACE codes with a minimum of 60 pst. come from closed business events as organiser or subcontractor. The aid amount shall be set at a maximum of 10 pst. of documented turnover cases per year. month offset 2019. The decline must be more than 50 pst. in order to qualify for support, a ceiling of 500 000 kroner per year is set. month(s) per month applicant.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20324	There is a vote on proposal No. 51, from the People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to follow the situation for the event industry and others in the organisers’ industries carefully and to return to the Stortinget with proposals for additional appropriations if necessary.’ The Labour Party and Red have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20341	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 47 and 48, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 47 sounds: «The Government is asked to ensure that trade unions in the sectors most affected have a dominant influence of at least 50 million. crowns of capped provision of skills and education. 257, heading 70.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to make provision for undertakings supported by the business compensation scheme not to: cancel as long as they receive aid replacement of permanent and temporary staff by tenants and temporary staff; pay dividends in or for 2021 pay bonuses in or for 2021 buy back own shares in 2021 increase management or management fees in 2021.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20382	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to reduce the aid reduction entry point to 10 million. krona per month and reduce the maximum stacked payment to 30 million. crowns per month of the temporary grant scheme for large-scale enterprises.» Red has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20399	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 44 and 45, from the People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that infectious diseases measures are included as a separate cost element in the compensation scheme and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the ‘fixed, unavoidable costs’ scheme and to include common costs and fixed marketing contributions for commercial premises in the basis for cost recovery under the business compensation scheme, where these are included in the commercial premises rental contract.’ [[second paragraph of Section 3-2]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20421	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42 and 43, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the appropriations for the municipalities are also used to enforce strict protection against infection in schools and kindergartens, so that the expenditure does not have to be covered by the normal budgets of the enterprises.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take into account the criteria of the Oslo model for public acquisitions and to lay down similar conditions for the eligibility of enterprises under the business compensation scheme.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20444	There is a vote on proposal No. 40, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Sandefjord Airport Torp is operated even after April.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20459	There is a vote on proposal No. 39, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to developments in the economy of the collective societies and, if necessary, return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for additional appropriations in the revised national budget 2021.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20474	There is a vote on proposal No. 38, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to ensure that grants under the cultural incentive scheme are awarded in such a way as to achieve a broad and fair response, and to ensure that subsidies to beneficiaries are curtailed, in line with the guidelines of the scheme, if the net cost of the requested activity appears to be disproportionate’.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20491	There is a vote on proposal No. 37, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to assess a grant or loan scheme or a combination thereof for package travel companies that have had to cancel deferred travel.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20506	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35 and 36, from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party. Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose a separate grant in order to reduce the loss of income of the Norwegian destination companies.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for remedial measures within the corona support schemes for the industries and actors which are particularly affected by different forms of financing of operating funds providing different outcomes in the Corona aid schemes.» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20531	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–34, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the public to expand the target audience for the job so that it also includes women receiving social assistance.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back with a guarantee scheme for film and series productions.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess incentives for the part of cultural life that draws its income from international activity in order to maintain employment and ensure international demand for Norwegian culture.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a reopening plan for cultural life, which ensures predictability and measures to ensure that value creation can take place as quickly as possible. Such a plan must include both compensatory measures, incentives and labour-oriented measures.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the long-term consequences for artists and musicians who have lost remuneration due to cancelled arrangements and to return with compensatory measures for them.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a plan to ensure sport through the pandemic without serious neglect, especially by children and young people in families with poor advice, and without dramatic economic consequences for clubs and sports.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish compensation schemes for culture, sport and voluntary activities which limit the risk by planning major events. The arrangements must provide compensation for cancelled events, also for activities under planning in 2020.’;» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish a compensation scheme for organisers and subcontractors to compensate for lost revenues and additional costs based on average figures for the comparable period 2017–2019.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that the incentive schemes for culture, sport and volunteering are set up in such a way as to take account of any scale-down and cancellation resulting from a change in the infection situation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to come back with proposals for a guarantee scheme for cinematographic and serial productions.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks it to propose a valve arrangement that actually affects the companies that fall outside or come into poor condition in the compensation schemes.’ [[especially the smaller ones]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a separate compensation scheme for start-up enterprises. The scheme shall be limited to small enterprises and a ceiling on payments, for example: One million. cents per month.’» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to ensure that municipal and county owned enterprises such as VTA companies, cinemas, sports facilities/bathing facilities and community buildings also receive state compensation.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that VTA companies also receive State compensation.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for follow-up to Decision 494 of the Grand Duchy and to ensure that establishments which have extensive economic operations but do not have ‘eligible assets’ are protected by an economic compensation.’ [[2019-2020]] Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that municipal swimming pools, cinemas and sports facilities and similar facilities receive emergency aid in line with similar private facilities.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to guarantee that municipalities are compensated for the additional expenditure and the loss of income resulting from the coronary pandemic and, if necessary, to submit proposals for additional appropriations in the revised national budget 2021.’» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an exceptional one-off payment in the housing stock during the month of March to cover the increased electricity costs over the winter of 2021. This additional payment of housing aid to cover high electricity costs shall not be deducted from other benefits.» Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for equal treatment of all those who receive housing support during the winter 2021 and to ensure that those who did not qualify for housing support in March 2021, but qualified for this for at least one of the other winter months, are paid an equivalent additional amount.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: «The government is asked to propose a temporary increase in the income ceiling of the housing aid scheme until at least October 2021, with a cost framework of at least 500 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to limit rentals in such a way as to be permitted only in the case of pure vicariates, between production establishments and in agreement with trustees in establishments bound by a country-wide tariff agreement with a trade union with a right of suspension.’; Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a strategy to strengthen Nav’s role as a employment service.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate serious requirements even when purchasing below the thresholds, so that enterprises with permanent employees, trade union workers and apprentices can have more jobs, as well as to allow municipalities to award training establishments that are at risk of having to train apprentices and trade union workers, maintenance tasks at a pre-arranged hourly rate. The award shall be made in cooperation with the social partners.’;» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to impose an information obligation on Nav to provide advice on the relevant training and skills provision for the trainees and the unemployed. The obligation can be implemented in cooperation with other actors, such as county municipalities and regional career guidance centres. Trade unions shall have a significant influence over the above-mentioned offers.’;» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to make provision for parent companies in third-country jurisdictions on the EU blacklist not to be eligible.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of costs related to lost stocks as a result of the expiry of the date as a result of infection protection measures in the flat-rate, unavoidable costs compensation scheme. The scheme should be able to contribute to the donation of food which, due to its date, cannot be sold but is still durable to the food centres.’» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to adequately compensate the maritime industry for the unavoidable costs of supervision and maintenance related to ships in storage.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to provide that establishments receiving support from the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards undertake not to replace permanent staff and on a permanent basis with temporary and temporary staff.’;» Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asked by the Government to provide that establishments receiving support from the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards undertake not to pay dividends in 2021. As part of the regulation, the government is asked to grant an exemption from this dividend prohibition in very specific cases upon application.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The Government is asked by the Government to provide that undertakings receiving support from the business compensation scheme from the month of March onwards undertake not to pay bonuses, buy back their own shares, or increase management or management fees in 2021.» Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to exclude manning companies from the compensation scheme.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce serious requirements into a future wage support scheme. The requirements should be based on the criteria of the Oslo model for public acquisitions, including requirements for proof of paid taxes and charges, plausible explanations of auditor's observations and auditor's exchanges, as well as the requirement that there is no final decision/judgment against them in relation to labour-related crime, social dumping or tax evasion, nor for non-residential offences.’;» Proposal No. 34 sounds: «The government is asked to introduce requirements to ensure that the aid goes to employees and non-sharers, such as dividend restrictions, share buy-backs, bonuses and management salaries, as well as redundancies. Companies with parent companies in tax havens shall be excluded from aid.»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20714	There is a vote on proposal No. 101, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests derogations from the entry ban for frontier commuters who are frontier residents and commute daily from Sweden or Finland to Norway for work every day.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20729	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 103 and 104, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 103 sounds: «The government is asked by the government to provide for an exemption for industrial codes 'L - Turnover and operation of real estate, 68.1 - Purchase and sale of own real estate and 68.2 - Renting of own or leased real estate' in the compensation schemes for business.» Proposal No. 104 sounds: ‘The Government requests the payment of 100 % compensation for lost stocks as a result of infection protection restrictions for the period from 1 November 2020 to 28 February 2021.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20751	There is a vote on proposal No. 102, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to ensure the income protection of newly educated people who become unemployed after completion of education and who care for both students from VGO and students from higher education. [[e]] The scheme shall last for as long as other interim income assurance measures continue.» The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20768	There is a vote on proposal No. 106, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to use the House Rental Act § 4-6 to set maximum rates for specific rental conditions at 20 pst. reduction from the level of 1 March 2021 for lessors and lessors with more than 2 secondary dwellings.» The Socialist Left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20785	There is a vote on proposal No. 105, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the business compensation scheme does not provide support to companies that rent property and allow rentals to stand empty, rather than rent at a reduced price.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20803	There is a vote on proposal No. 107, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for repayment of aid from establishments which have not acted with due diligence and loyalty towards the objectives of the compensation scheme, including those which have reduced turnover in order to increase the payment of aid under the compensation scheme and establishments where the loss of turnover is not mainly due to the coronation pandemic.’ The Socialist Left and Red have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20820	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 110 and 111, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 110 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the criteria of the subcontracting compensation scheme applicable from May to August 2020 be continued for the remainder of 2020 and for allocations in 2021.’;» Proposal No. 111 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess the situation of Norwegian students abroad and return to Stortinget with proposals for compensatory measures.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20844	There is a vote on proposal No. 112, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a solution to reduce the loss of income of the Norwegian destination companies either by including the membership quota/partner contribution as permanent avoidable costs in the compensation scheme or as a separate grant to the destination companies.» The Labour Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20861	There is a vote on proposal No. 108, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to propose a solution to reduce the loss of income of the Norwegian destination companies either by including the membership quota/partner contribution as permanent avoidable costs in the compensation scheme or as a separate grant to the destination companies.» The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20878	There is a vote on proposal No. 109, from the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the revised national budget of 2021 with proposals for reduced ferry tariffs already for the current year and a binding plan for halving ferry prices for both national road and county road links. Solutions for lower rates for commuters shall be given priority and the reduction shall be financed by the State.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20896	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e20974	There is a vote on proposal No. 49 from the right, from the left, and from the Christian people. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2021 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e21046	There is a vote on proposal No. 67, from the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked by the government to include in the business compensation scheme the costs of lost stocks caused by expired dates as a result of infection protection restrictions in the compensation basis of the social welfare month of March. Establishments which are able to demonstrate large quantities of lost stocks as a result of infection protection restrictions in the period November to February shall be able to apply for compensation for this.’» The Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Green Party have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e21063	We have now voted on all the proposals that have been put forward and have come to the vote on the motion for a resolution. In the subsequent vote, the party groups are set to abstain from the vote they would normally vote – this in order to avoid a very time-consuming and partly complicated voting process, where the result is nevertheless given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against them on a later occasion. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23563	The Right Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23587	The right, the left, the Christian People's Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23606	During the debate, Stein Erik Lauvås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Sami languages are available in all public digital services developed from the outset and that all public bodies have support for Sami letters, so that Sami names can be correctly written in public registers.’ In the event of an incurrency, the Senter Party is not involved in the proposal. The Central Party, the Green Party and the Red Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23645	The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23765	The size would then go back to the treatment of today's map. The next speaker is the representative Seher Aydar.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23770	Municipalities are responsible for many of our most important welfare services. Redly put proposals for local democracy because we cannot allow profit-driven actors to ignore local democracy's ability to adapt welfare provision to the best interests of both the population and welfare services. The commercial market is increasingly dominated by players with centralised ownership. They take billions in profit from Community funds allocated to welfare services. In addition, private owners have some special advantages. Public services are subject to laws regulating public transparency and legal certainty. When the welfare services are outsourced to commercial operators, operating, manning and competence information is converted into business secrets and except for public transparency. But our welfare isn't business. We need more transparency, not the secret of welfare professionals. Special treatment also means that local politicians do not have access to adjust the number of student places in private schools or kindergartens in commercial kindergartens. In these areas, the commercial profit-based companies have a right of pre-emption in front of the community. Elections must be given the opportunity to make overall assessments and take democratic decisions based on what is best for the citizens. Municipalities must therefore be entitled to say no to commercial establishment and be able to adjust the capacity of all publicly funded welfare services, not just be forced to cut the public offer. Red is against the commercialisation of well-being and for profit-free well-being. When these companies first have to have the suction pipe well placed in the common safe, we should at least ensure better democratic control. This also applies to the right of municipalities to demand better manning standards than national standards. Municipalities must organise welfare services in line with the needs of the population, and it must include all publicly funded welfare services. It also implies that local elected representatives must be given the opportunity to stop or restrict the use of commercial actors. Local democracy must weigh more heavily than profit for the welfare profitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23791	Private actors are important providers of welfare services — both in addition to and on behalf of the public sector. Private actors are important employers and value creators who pay taxes to the community. Private actors contribute to the diversity of supply, to innovation and to the improvement of both public and private welfare services. The government's starting point is that municipalities themselves have to assess whether they want to use private actors to provide welfare services on behalf of the municipality. Within the framework of the various sectoral laws, they also need to assess for themselves what conditions are necessary to ensure that services are of high quality. Using private actors, both commercial and non-profit, municipalities will often be a good tool for getting more well-being out of each krona. The government is committed to ensuring that public funds are used to provide good welfare services and that the public has sufficient opportunity to control the flow of money. Regardless of whether private operators or the public itself provide the welfare services, it is the public responsibility to ensure that the services are of the quality that citizens expect and require and that the use of money is sound. In 2018, therefore, the government set up a public body responsible for monitoring the flow of money in publicly funded welfare services. The committee delivered its report to the Minister of Industry before Christmas, and the report is now at public consultation. The representative of Moxnes proposes, inter alia: providing legal support to municipalities in order to provide the same quality requirements for private and municipal welfare services. Within the framework of the various sectoral laws, the quality requirements they wish to impose on private suppliers are generally up to the municipalities. Where local authorities purchase services under the Government Acquisitions Code, these quality requirements will result from contracts between local authorities and the private sector. Local authorities’ own requirements for the quality of services are in addition to national requirements, which help to adapt services to local needs. The work of the Welfare Service Committee on following the flow of money has revealed what information is currently available on private providers of welfare services. The report thus provides us with a good basis for assessing whether the public has sufficient transparency in the private sector providing welfare services. The question of whether the scope of the disclosure law, the administrative law and the archival law should be amended will require careful evaluation. As regards the Administrative Act and the Archiving Act, it is natural that the issues are addressed in the context of a follow-up to the NOUs from 2019 with proposals for new administrative law and new archive law. I have also taken note of the views of the Committee and handed them over to the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23815	There is probably a large value difference between SV and Right in the view of commercial welfare providers. Private, non-commercial SV has nothing against it. So I don't think there's much point in discussing that. What I have been concerned about is, among other things, archive law and private institutions. For example, there are many private institutions in the field of child protection, and if they do not have the same documentation and records requirements as those of the public, it could be quite serious in cases that are raised afterwards, where there may be serious issues to be identified, or there is fundamental legal certainty for children and family and employees who are in the searchlight. What is the reason why the government does not see that there is a need for these institutions to have the same record requirements as a public child protection institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23822	The question of the archival law does not fall within my remit, but within the Ministry of Culture, so I would refer the representative to the Council of State in that context. Then the representative is quite right that it probably doesn't have much to discuss the diversity of the welfare services in Norway, and that we probably have different starting points. But it is worth remembering that SV and Right had quite similar starting points when SV put in government. Then SV was in order to have also commercial actors in the welfare. Not least private kindergartens were something that SV was interested in, and later thanked for contributing to full kindergarten coverage. I think it is a pity that SV has chosen to move so far from what was SV's starting point in this area, from a place where they acknowledged the role of the privates in this, to a place where they believe they have no place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23829	That history description is a little special, because at that time the private kindergartens were basically parent-run and small, ideal kindergartens. What has happened now is that it has developed a large market where international investment companies buy up these private kindergartens and create intricate business models, where, in particular, they manage to capitalize heavily on what is our tax money, including free land and sometimes buildings. It's never been for SV. What we were for was the small, ideal kindergartens. There was something that, among other things: Parents were driving ahead – I've been on it for a while – because the public didn't do what they were supposed to do. Doesn't the Council of State see a difference between commercial and ideal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23834	I am concerned that we should have a variety of actors, because it gives parents freedom of choice, and because it helps us get better offers, more innovation and also different ways of operating, which I believe is an unconditional good for the public as well. So, for example, Agenda Kaupang has done a survey that shows that private kindergartens save the public for almost 2.5 billion. kr every year. The private kindergartens went with 1 billion. NOK in profit and got 22 billion. kr in government grants, amounting to 85 pst. of what they had to operate for. So in total for society, it's very positive that half of the kindergartens are private, whether they're ideal or commercial. The important thing is that the parents are satisfied, that the children get what they need, and that the employees have good pay and working conditions. Besides that, I think diversity is a good thing and not a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23841	I just record that the Council of State has no problem that billions of dollars are being drained from the crowns that have been allocated to kindergartens. As far as diversity is concerned, a doctoral thesis about it has just arrived. It refutes the government's claim very strongly. There's no diversity in this. It's more about marketing and branding, as it's called in English, i.e. it kind of creates an image without any other content. And to the extent that there should be a different content, there can be business secrets and nothing that can help to develop the kindergarten sector in general, where new methods can be developed that might be interesting for more people. Here SV is concerned that the money we put into this is going to go both to the children and to the operation, and that there is going to be an exchange of those ideas and innovation... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23849	I ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23854	I do not agree that we also have private kindergartens, brave the community for billions. On the contrary, I referred to two figures, which show that the community saves billions of dollars that private actors also provide kindergarten services. As I said, in 2019, the kindergarten sector went by 1 billion. kr in surplus, while Agenda Kaupang has expected public savings of 2.3 billion. on the existence of private kindergartens. So it's net plus for the community, and that must be good. I'm concerned that it's good that we have a diversity. Studies also show that parents are very satisfied with the offers they receive, both in the public sector and in the private sector, and perhaps even a little more satisfied with the private sector than they are with the public offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23861	The Welfare Service Committee, as the Council of State pointed out, says itself that it was demanding to monitor the flow of money in publicly funded welfare services because the commercial misplaces where the money ends eventually. Now, public services are subject to laws regulating public transparency and legal certainty. Does the Council of State not believe that all of us who depend on welfare services and the community as a whole are served with transparency even when it comes to commercial actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23868	Well, I mean absolutely that openness is of the good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23873	Now the state council must be a little more serious, because when there are commercial actors operating in public welfare, which are publicly funded welfare, they are excluding public transparency in some cases because they are called business secrets. Does the State Council believe it is right that what is happening within child protection, kindergarten and old age homes can be called business secrets? Or should we have as much transparency in these services when they are commercial as when it is public that operates them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23878	I answered the question – clearly and clearly: I believe that transparency is good. I believe that characterizing it as unprofessional falls on its own unreasonableness. And yes, I'm still too open, so I'll answer that to the next question as well. I think it is good when the public has a contract with private operators, that there is as much transparency as possible about how this money is used, and that you can follow the money. In the past, there have also been major challenges in following the money in the public sector. This has been done, and it has become much easier to see how the money is used in the public sector as well. I think it's good, regardless of who delivers the services, that you have the most transparency possible. So there'll always be some things that can't be shared, both in the public and in the private sector, but I think as much transparency as possible is of the good. I hope we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23887	Does that mean that the Council of State is in order for commercial operators to be subject to the same disclosure requirements as the public in the welfare services?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23892	As I said, I'm in order for you to be able to be open about what it's possible to be open about. I believe that as much openness as possible is good. This applies both to companies providing services to the public and to companies in general. After all, this government has implemented a number of measures to contribute to more transparency in financial flows in general, ranging from tax agreements on the one hand to more transparency on different cash flows also in public service production. I'm a member of openness in general, and then there'll always be some constraints on it, whether it's the public or the private sector we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23897	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23916	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23923	It is the legal state itself that is being attacked when terrorists are making their own mistakes. It's the rule of law that's supposed to defend us against them. If you are accused of genocide or terrorism, it is important for the Workers' Party that you lose your Norwegian citizenship if you have two. Judicial proceedings are the result of this where there are criminal offences that must be the basis for the loss. Everyone agrees. However, we do not support the government's proposal that the loss of citizenship for fundamental national interests can be achieved by an administrative decision. We believe that this can only happen in court. Today, simply the legal state becomes a little smaller than it was yesterday. When the government wants the job as both actor, jury and judge, we say no. We don't want to give such powers to a political body, which is what the departments are. The Departments are secretarial services for political leadership. What the government is proposing, is to make our state of law less, so that it can be easier to defend. They obviously don't see the ironic in that they're building down – they say they're building up. In this room we must be more principled and long-term in our assessments of this matter than the government turns out to be. Citizenship has entered the heart of the nation-state. It's a visible proof of who you are and where you belong. It's a sign that you carry the rights that are managed in this room: the right to vote in elections and to go out and into the realm. Depriving someone of a citizenship is a very radical act. It's an action we're only going to take when it's absolutely necessary and right. The Court of Justice is the instrument of the rule of law. If you are in Norway and plan terrorism and the police believe it is a probability balance that you will carry out the plans, you will be put behind locks and beats. Whether or not you are deprived of your citizenship there or then is not decisive. This case has received a lot of publicity and has been characterized by heated rhetoric in the past. The Labour Party has been accused of running terrorists' cases when we call about the principles and institutions of the rule of law. In this room the heads must be cool and the words carefully weighed. Our decisions are not suffrages. They're the laws of the country. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23940	The representative Siri Gåsemyr Staalese then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23945	When the loss of Norwegian citizenship is dealt with in this case, it is not just about losing a passport. One will not necessarily have the right to stay in the country, to enter the country, or to use his Norwegian citizenship to harm Norwegian interests. If a person is a serious threat to the security of the State, it is important to have a legal basis in order to be able to withdraw citizenship. I think we agree on that. However, the parties have separated layers on the question of how such decisions can be made at first instance and whether this can be decided by the administration or by the courts. The fundamental question we have to ask ourselves is whether the system proposed ensures the legal certainty of the person who is at risk of losing his or her citizenship because he or she is perceived as a threat to the security of the country and at the same time gives us the security and security of the country and people, who must be our prime concern. The thing we have in front of us here now and discuss, has two sides. On the one hand, it concerns the fight against terrorism, the prevention and protection of national interests. On the other hand, it is about the legal certainty of individuals and the fulfilment of the obligations of the rule of law. This is the dilemma that we as legislators have to deal with here. The right-wing grouping agrees that the principle of power distribution, which distinguishes between legislative, executive and judicial powers, is essential. If the courts are to carry out proceedings at first instance instead of being the supervisor of the administrative decision — yes, the legitimacy of the courts may be impaired. At the same time, however, we are committed to ensuring the fundamental legal certainty of the individual. For this reason, it has been important for us that individuals should have the right to free legal advice without need testing, free conduct without need testing and exemption from legal fees. The State shall bear all costs. This bill suggests that no one should lose citizenship based on acts carried out before the age of 18 but acts committed before the age of 18 can be emphasised in an overall risk assessment. Furthermore, citizenship shall not be lost if it would be disproportionate to the person or his family. In matters relating to children, the best interests of the child shall be fundamental. It is important for us to clarify that no one should become stateless after losing their Norwegian citizenship after this bill. So this is about people with more than one citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23962	The primary task of policies is to ensure the security of the population and of the nation. That's exactly what this case is about. On serious security issues, there is always a balance between the rights of individuals and the security of the nation. We always have to weigh that up against each other, and sometimes it can be hard. Sometimes it is at the expense of the legal certainty of individuals, sometimes you have to weigh the opposite. In this case, it is not particularly difficult to know what to pay attention to. In this case, the security of the nation must be put first – rather than the legal certainty of suspected terrorists. It's important. I cannot understand and believe simply on the grounds of the Workers' Party, which is still opposed to the principle of the loss of citizenship by government, because there are no good reasons for this. Reference is also made to incorrect justifications. The Labour Party says it won't have anything to say in these cases if you do it by judgment or administrative decision. That would have a lot to say. If you have to act quickly for example. preventing entry for a person potentially posing a threat, such as: A foreign warrior returning to Norway must act quickly. Then you don't have time to wait for a trial. If you want to prevent avoidance by saying away your second citizenship in order not to lose your Norwegian, you have to act quickly. Then it is not useful to wait for a court of law. That is what is essential in this matter. That's why the election is really simple. I also record that other parties that in the previous round put a serious racket around this case have turned around. For example, when they are asked by the media why they have turned around, they are shown. to the hearing, where, inter alia: Amnesty International has said that there is a breach of legal principles and administrative principles to do so through management. But there has been no new round of consultation on this matter. The authorities that have thought it right to do this by judgment have meant it all the way, and Amnesty is against the whole matter. Depending on Amnesty's hearing opinions from a completely different point of view to justify having turned around in this case, only shows that you made mistakes the last time, and that you don't dare to do so. I think it's funny, but I think it's good that a majority has seen the sense this time and is going to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23973	The Party endorses the proposal in the proposal to introduce a legal basis for the loss of citizenship in the interests of fundamental national interests. In the hearings, it appears that Kripos and the Police Directorate consider the proposal to be of key importance if criminal proceedings are required. The Centre Party supports that assessment and considers that it makes sense to authorise the withdrawal of citizenship even in cases where there is no previous criminal conviction, if a person threatens fundamental national interests. The Workers' Party and the SV have made a proposal asking the Government to come back with proposals to ensure that the loss of citizenship is decided by the Court of Justice in the interests of fundamental national interests. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Stortinget decided on 9 December 2019 to continue and strengthen the system of administrative handling of matters relating to the revocation of citizenship due to incorrect information. The Central Party believes that there are strong arguments in principle against imposing administrative duties on the courts. The legitimacy of the courts will be impaired if the courts are to conduct proceedings at first instance instead of checking the administrative decision. The principle of power distribution, where a clear distinction is made between legislative, executive and judicial power, would be distorted if a judgment were to be given in the first instance. It is up to the courts to carry out legality checks, not to administer them. Matters of fundamental national interest could have an urgency which a system of court proceedings at first instance would not be able to deal with in the same way as its administration. The Central Party considers that an important point is that all relevant issues relating to fundamental national interests should be addressed in accordance with the same procedure. Management has gained experience and competence on such issues, and this is important in good future treatment. Legal certainty will be ensured by the fact that the case in question may be brought before the Court of Justice. The Contracting Party considers that the State shall bear the costs of the case, both the costs of handling the ministry and any costs of legal proceedings. The centre party would stress that it is a prerequisite for the loss of Norwegian citizenship that the person has a different citizenship in addition to Norwegian citizenship. No one shall be able to be deprived of citizenship to statelessness.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e23988	SV is for suspected terrorists to be arrested, investigated and brought to justice, not to be released outside the country, as it appears that the government and the majority believe they should. Terrorism must be combated by international police cooperation, and if it is to act quickly, it must be arrested while entering the country. Then you have control of the person suspected of such serious acts. Norway shall be a State governed by law in which a person may not lose citizenship without legal proceedings. SV is in favour of empowering the government to withdraw from any citizenship. I'm shocked by what I hear, that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have clearly turned around, and by what the Center Party also says. They refer to a hearing that concerned a completely different matter. It did not concern this matter at all. It is about the administrative withdrawal of citizenship in the event of errors. It is believed that UDI and UNE are competent. Yes, they do – on the wrong. But this is not about giving UDI and UNE such competence, it's about giving the government this competence. When the matter was up the last time, Left's Abid Q. Raja said that if the Progress Party pushes this matter through and expels this family from Norway, they have lost all our trust. So now the Left – the Christian People’s Party was also opposed – sits in government and presents this matter without even being stated in the government statement. I don't know what happened, but it's quite serious. The government refers to a hearing belonging to a completely different proposal. The previous round this was up, they pointed to a NOU. They claimed they had support for it in that NOU, while you went much further than there was reason for it in the NOU then. It is also believed that it is necessary to take from people the passport to go to this serious step of being able to deprive some citizenship by a political decision, for that is what this is. It's very misleading. There are wide-ranging homes to get people out of the passport code. If you take away any citizenship while they're out of the country, they've also taken care of themselves. To put it that way: there is international police cooperation, and there are signals like that coming into the systems and making sure that terrorists are actually being arrested and arrested. They have the passport with them whether you've taken it one way or the other. Legal certainty is the move of a staff stone in Norwegian policy. I'm shocked that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are involved in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24005	The last time this proposal came to the Stortinget, Sylvi Listhaug was Minister of Justice. The Storting voted down the proposal, Red put forward mistrust proposals against Listhaug, and she had to go off. Amazingly, both the Christian People's Party and the Left now say that they will vote in favour of this amendment, which was rejected in 2018, and as Left's Abid Q. Raja said at the time, "would erode the whole point of being a state, citizens' security and legal certainty". [[...]] It is still in favour of the legislative proposal that the Ministry should be able to remove people from citizenship without legal proceedings. That is why we are voting against it today. Even now, there are too many people living with the threat of losing their Norwegian citizenship. There are people who have worked, paid taxes and not injured any people, and who are now afraid of being deprived of citizenship. It has become government policy to create insecurity and suspicion against minorities. Red wants a time limit within which it is possible to withdraw citizenship. Today we are voting in a subsidiary way for the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV. Action against acts of terrorism are questions we should never take lightly. I therefore find it disappointing that the government, rather than presenting measures that could weaken the pit of extremism, once again makes proposals which are, at best, symbolic policies, and, in the worst case, can have a direct negative effect. Red stands for legal certainty, equality of law and policies that work. Much indicates that the government's proposal takes us in the wrong direction in these areas. Police are already able to withdraw passports for people they fear will commit crime while travelling abroad. Police can also jail terrorists. It's very important. The threat assessment by PST confirms that increased radicalisation to right-wing extremism is expected in the coming year. I miss measures that can actually counteract dangerous extremism. Symbol policies that weaken legal certainty do not provide the necessary protection against terrorism in Norway. Let's not forget that Anders Behring Breivik, Philip Manshaus and the right-wing extremists who killed Benjamin Hermansen, all had only one citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24022	The government’s view is that there is a need to exclude persons from Norwegian citizenship for fundamental national interests. Citizenship today can only be lost because of fundamental national interests if it is punishable at the same time for such matters. However, individuals may pose a threat to fundamental national interests without being convicted. After that provision, it is a condition that the person has Norwegian and other citizenship. In addition, the person must have behaved in such a way as to require action to prevent the person from implementing something that would be strongly detrimental to fundamental national interests. In order to apply the provision, sufficient information must be available to support the fact that the person has both the capacity and the willingness to do much damage to the Norwegian society. Furthermore, loss of citizenship must be considered as contributing to the prevention of the damage. The loss of citizenship will include, inter alia: could prevent a person with Norwegian citizenship from carrying out acts of terrorism. It also makes it possible to expel the person and thus help prevent the execution of terrorist acts in Norway. In all cases, a proportionality assessment shall be carried out taking into account all relevant considerations based on the seriousness of the relationship and the relationship between the person and Norway. In the autumn of 2019, the Ministry of Knowledge promoted a legislative proposal on the withdrawal of citizenship due to incorrect information. Prior to this, an in-depth investigation was carried out into the issue of court proceedings at first instance. In December 2019, the Storting took a position on the question of the procedure for the withdrawal of citizenship and unanimously decided that the withdrawal of citizenship in cases where incorrect information has been provided shall be decided by the administration of the first instance. The task of the Court of Justice, in accordance with the principle of the distribution of powers, is to carry out legality checks and not to administer them. In order to ensure legal certainty and human rights, the Government proposes that the decision of the Ministry be referred to the courts without charge to the person concerned. The person shall have the right to free counsel without any need-to-be examination during the proceedings in the ministry and to free trial without any need-to-be review during the proceedings. No legal fee shall be paid either. If evidence is to be given in the case which is otherwise to be kept secret for the sake of national security, the person will be appointed as soon as possible by a special lawyer to take care of his interests. Following the government's assessment, the examination and decision of the Ministry is the overall consideration of fundamental national interests and the best consideration for the legal certainty of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24043	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24049	When the government wants the job as both actor, jury and judge, we say no. We do not want to grant such powers. What the government is proposing, is to make our state of law less, so it'll make it easier to defend. The government doesn't see the obvious ironic in that they're building down what they say they're building up. A citizenship has entered the heart of the nation state and is a visible proof of who you are and where you belong. We believe that it takes something strong to get rid of it – that it is the court that should do it. Does the Council of State agree that the rule of law is getting a little less after today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24054	What I'm going to do now is that the Workers' Party is very critical of a procedure that the party has accepted in a number of other cases. This is, of course, the procedure applicable in other security matters under the Act on Citizenship and the Foreign Affairs Act. On 3 December 2019, the Stortinget took a position on the question of the procedure for the revocation of citizenship. In that case, the Stortinge stated unanimously that the loss of citizenship in cases where incorrect information has been provided shall be determined by the administration of the first instance. Why this should be so different in the kind of issues we are dealing with today, compared to the issues we took a decision on in 2019, I can't help but see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24059	There is a great difference between being deprived of a citizenship that you should not have and being deprived of the rights you have as a citizen of the state of Norway. So then I hear you right -- you mean that the law doesn't get any less today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24064	That's right. I'll think that too many people will almost be more dramatic to be deprived of the only citizenship they have, and thus become stateless than what we do today. The law we are adopting today is only about people who have two citizenships, that is. that the consequence for them will not be to become stateless, but to lose their sole citizenship, in Norway. I also want to say that those situations are very comparable, and if we think that treating it by the department at first instance is the right way to do it when we talk about recalls of citizenship, I think it's very strange that it can't be an acceptable way to do it when we talk about loss of citizenship, and that's also supported by a number of heavy hearing bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24069	The progress party is very happy that this home is coming into place now, but as I stated in my post, there is some frustration over several of the parties' arguments in the matter. Recently, we could read in the Class Battle that State Secretary Grunde Kreek Almeland of the Ministry of Knowledge explains the turnaround in that heavy actors such as the Supreme Court, the Police Directorate, the Foreign Affairs Directorate, the Government Attorney, Amnesty Norway and the Judiciary's Association warned against court proceedings at first instance during the hearing. There is an opinion on this matter. But the hearing to which it refers is actually a completely different matter. I find it strange to use Amnesty, for example, as an argument for a spin-off when Amnesty in the hearing of the case in question is actually against the whole provision. What does the Council of State think of such a argument?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24074	I think it's a little too easy to present this case as very black-and-white, and I also think it's a little sad when politicians can't admit that things are a little more complex than that, and that it can also lead to parties changing their place in a case. I believe that with the treatment we were undergoing in 2019, Stortinget concluded that recalls of citizenship could be dealt with by the ministry at first instance, and that it was the best way to ensure legal certainty. We have then taken this into account when we have prepared this matter that we are now submitting to Stortinget, and I also believe that this is the right procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24079	I believe it was not an answer to the question I asked. That this case is complex, it can all agree. It may be a difficult matter, I understand that too. But the truth is that in this case no new information has been provided. This is exactly the same case as last time. The government asked for legal proceedings, and the government returned and delivered administrative proceedings. I think that makes sense. But there have been no new elements in the case, there have been no new hearings. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Knowledge explains the reverse operation that actors such as Amnesty are warning against court proceedings at first instance. But the truth is that they haven't – they're against the whole thing. The Ministry of Knowledge then justified the reverse operation with a hearing on a completely different matter. Then I asked the Council of State again whether new elements have emerged in this matter which means that the Left has turned around.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24086	This case was originally promoted in 2017. So it's right that the representative repeats, that Stortinget asked for an investigation into whether it should be tried. In the meantime, we have dealt with another case, about the revocation of citizenship, where the question of whether it should be decided by the administration at first instance was thoroughly investigated. Then Stortinget unanimously argued that it is the most legal way to proceed, that the department treats it in the first instance and that it can then proceed to court. After that decision in Stortinget we have also agreed that this is the right way to do it, and therefore we have also taken this into account in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24091	I think it's a little important when a Council of State makes the argument for a case, that it should be right. I suspect that the Left has realised that they made a mistake in the previous case as they went very high on the track against the Right and the Advance Party wanted. It is not right for the majority to take the decision that the Council of State is now making. The majority at the time said the opposite, and the government doesn't follow it up. As I said, it is good, but I also think you have to be so neat and say that the reason given to the class struggle is wrong. There have been no new hearings or moments in this matter. Then only the question remains: Is it not the case that the left has now realized that they made a mistake the previous time, and is it not possible to admit that you are making a mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24096	What both I and others from the Left have said is that we have changed our view of the matter after getting a thorough investigation in 2018-2019 that argued well why it was going to be dealt with by the administration at first instance, was a right and a good way to do so. I don't have any problems telling you that the left has changed its mind. I think that in general is something politicians should be a little bit neater to do. That in 2017 we agreed to a decision asking that court proceedings should be investigated, and that in 2018–2019 there was a unanimous increase that was behind the fact that the right thing in this type of case is a treatment of the administration at first instance, and that we then follow up the way to do it now in 2021 – I think that is quite right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24101	It's a spectacular reverse operation left has done, and it's quite wrong that the hearing that has been about the waiver of citizenship by mistake can be compared to this case. This case is about the loss of citizenship by suspicion of terrorism – not the conviction, but the suspicion of terrorism – and it is not the administration that is going to make the decision, it is the ministry. It's two completely different things. I have to say that I am quite shocked by the Left, as the last time this matter was up, was so fundamentally against the fact that they took hers in government that the government could take the decision – at political level – to take away people's citizenship. Doesn't the Council of State realize this violent reversal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24107	The left has not taken hers into government on any matters of citizenship; that's not right. But what's right is that the left, when this case was up first, thought it should be tried. But after a thorough investigation and a thorough assessment, we have changed our view, and we believe that what provides the most legal certainty for citizens, and that makes this a paragraph that can be followed up, is that we are doing so in this way now that it is decided by the Department at first instance following exactly the same procedure that applies in other security matters under the Civil and Foreign Affairs Act, and that SV voted for on 3 December 2019 when a decision was taken on the matter of revocation of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24112	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24117	There has been no consultation in this matter. It is wrong — there has been a hearing in the case of the waiver of citizenship as an administrative decision when citizenship has been given in the event of a mistake. That's what's been at the hearing. There has not been a case of the waiver of citizenship as a penalty in the event of suspicion of terrorism at the hearing. That matter has not been at the hearing. So this basis on which the government, and especially the Left, says they've made a new decision, is simply not true. So it's not a matter of the administration of UDI and UNE making these assessments, as it is in the matters of the waiver of citizenship by mistake, i.e. people who should not have citizenship initially. Now it's the department. And that's a material error. I have also not heard anyone who has raised or said anything about what I believe is a very important point. If someone is suspected of terrorism, and it is known that he is entering the country, what is the reason why he is not to be arrested on arrival in the country, so as to ensure that that terrorist is actually being investigated, accused and convicted in the matter? It's a lot safer handling than just saying, "No, you can't get into the country." And then is he going to be allowed to be on the job abroad? Everyone knows that it is possible to plan terror from abroad and frame Norway. I thought Norway was involved in international police cooperation also to prevent terrorists from being on duty. Taking away from a suspected terrorist – for that is what this is – the citizenship of Norway and preventing him from entering the country, they are still in possession of their Norwegian passport. Then I expect that there is a message out there saying that the passport is no longer valid. Yeah, you can do that too. With the permission of today's passports, people can be deprived of passports. I don't know what's behind the Left and Christian People's Party agreeing to resubmit this matter, there must be some secret agreement with the Advance Party – I don't know what it is. But it is very shocking that this case is now going through, that Norway is going to be one of the countries that takes away people's citizenship by a government decision. It's not a legal state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24128	I feel a certain need to clarify something after the presence of the representative, because it is possible that I expressed myself unclear instead. It sounded like I had said that we had based ourselves on something that had come in as hearing statements now. I don't think I've said that, and that doesn't mean it's true. The matter, which is very similar to the one we are presenting now, was at the hearing in 2017. The matter we are now presenting is essentially similar to that proposed in Prop. 146 L for 2016–2017 – which was then at the hearing. The assessment was that since this is so similar, there was no need for a new round of consultations now. What has happened in the meantime is that the Storting decided in December 2019 that proceedings for revocation of citizenship due to incorrect information should be carried out at first instance administrative level. That's what's happened in the meantime. During that period, there has also been an in-depth investigation into the issue of court proceedings in the first instance of cases of loss of citizenship in connection with Prop. 141 L for 2018-2019, also supported by SV. That's the fact of the matter. In terms of the need to have such a permit, this is because, among other things, The PST has experience that with current legislation there has been no possibility of adequate action against Norwegian citizens, despite the fact that they are considered to represent a serious threat to fundamental national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24137	I'm glad of the Council of State's clarification. It's important that things are right, and you got a different idea instead. Then we are left with the fact that there are quotes from the State Secretary, to which I would like to refer, from the Class Battle. It's still wrong, but we have to leave it. The representative Karin Andersen again raised the question of having other opportunities to stop suspected terrorists intending to commit crime or terror against Norway. But in such cases, I rely much more on those who can do this than on SV. I rely on PST's statements. We had a discussion now about the hearing or not, and the matter was initially at the hearing when it was presented for the first time. The PST was quite clear that they have had concrete examples that, after today’s legislation, have made it possible for them to take sanctions or measures against specific people whom they consider to have bad intentions. Then we have to take it over. Then the police need a tool. Then the authorities lack a tool to protect us from terror, and that's the most important thing. I put my trust in that, more than I put my trust in SV's knowledge of the matter. It is also the case that a Norwegian citizenship can be used for much more than landing at the Gardermoen. If you have a Norwegian citizenship, you can move around much easier – passport or not – and get access to things you should not if you intend to commit international terrorism. There are more opportunities to abuse a Norwegian citizenship than just to land on the Gardermoen. I think everyone agrees that if you know when a person lands and you have the specific suspicions, action would be taken. But it's pretty naive to think that it's only in such cases that something like that will apply. I was also in the middle of a moment that no one else answered out, and that is the escape risk, because if you start a case and wait for a verdict in such a case, you have a big case. There are also a number of hearing bodies that have pointed out that there is a risk of avoidance by simply abandoning their other citizenship and thus clarifying the provision to lose their Norwegians. Then, by such an approach, we've solved a problem that we'll never get rid of, because if that's what we believe, that individuals should not have a Norwegian citizenship, we can't have a law that makes it easy to circumvent the law. That's why what we're going to adopt today, absolutely right, and we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24148	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24165	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24172	The proposal to be considered concerns proposals from the Ministry of Knowledge on amendments to the temporary law of 26 May 2020 No. 53, on adaptations to the Introduction Act to address the consequences of an outbreak of covid-19, integration package II. Now in February 2021 we still see a situation with many infectious diseases and high unemployment. It is difficult to know how long we need to maintain the measures of the temporary laws and the additional measures taken to adapt them to the ongoing coronary apathy. I am therefore pleased to see that the department is following the situation and is proposing changes on an ongoing basis, so that the participants in the introduction programme will get the best possible offer at these times. We've learned in the last year that we need to make quick decisions to adapt to extraordinary situations and times. The Interim Act on adaptations to the Introduction Act to address the consequences of outbreaks of covid-19, Chapter 1, deals with extended and reinforced introduction programmes and extended Norwegian training to address the consequences of covid-19 outbreaks. This proposition proposes changes to the law in order to implement the measures of the Integration Package II. The changes proposed are extended introduction programmes and extended training in Norwegian in Chapter 1 of the Act so that more participants in the introduction programme and in training in Norwegian and social knowledge can be included in the measures. These measures require changes to Sections 2 and 3 of the Temporary Act. The Committee's position is promoted by the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. These committee members note that the background to the measures of the first integration package was the impact of the covid outbreak on both the content and scope of training and the programme and on the learning outcomes of the participants. In addition, the outbreak led to high unemployment, contributing to even greater challenges for professionals with low formal qualifications and low professional experience. We have been concerned that the participants who are now approaching completion of the introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge meet a challenging labour market as those who were in the final phase of the introduction programme and training in the autumn of 2020. The Progress Party has chosen not to support the proposal, and I am counting on them to inform themselves about their views. There is otherwise a minority proposal in the case of the Socialist Left, which they would certainly like to comment on. With that, I would recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24191	We have had several of these cases, and the Progress Party has voted against such a warrant in some previous proceedings, and sometimes we have voted in favour. It's because these are difficult things -- it's not so good to know how to do this in the best possible way. Let me be the first to realize that this is demanding, and there are a lot of groups in a difficult situation. Now that we have come to the conclusion that we do not want to support an extension of the home, it is because this has now been very long, and the Progress Party is concerned about building up a large remnant of people who are artificially kept outside the unemployment statistics and can eventually disappear completely below the radar. When things go back to normal – and we've had a lot of people who just walk and move on to schemes that really don't lead to anything – we can build up bigger problems than what we could do in other ways. In today's situation, we have a wide range of ordinary measures to remedy those who are out of work, and then the coronary apathy has given us a wide range of extraordinary measures to remedy. Then it would be better for these to go over to the ordinary and extraordinary measures and not be kept in an arrangement that I'm afraid only builds up a remainder that creates greater problems in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24198	SV supports the proposal on the possibility of extended and reinforced introduction programme and extended Norwegian training to address the consequences of the covid-19 outbreak. We believe that it is a necessary and appropriate way of dealing with the difficult situation. Of course, SV wants those who have completed the programme to be able to get to work, or in other training and qualification — if appropriate — but this opening given here, it is necessary to give now because the situation is as it is. What we are proposing is that we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget at the beginning of May – that is, revised – with an assessment of the need for additional opportunities for extension, or other measures, to ensure that the introduction system, or other types of training, is now implemented, so that more people can get into either an ordinary educational situation or work. It is necessary for the government to bring it in May. In our remarks, we point out that it is necessary to have a good competence monitoring of refugees and other immigrants who are going through under the new Introduction Act. That's good, and then it's essential that you also get tents with non-formal competence. Because it's one of the things that maybe many people can have, and it's crucial that you can do both work and further education. Work, in cooperation with Oslo Adult Training, has developed a non-formal qualification scheme called Balance Art. We ask the government to ensure that such a non-formal competence authorisation system is part of the competence monitoring process that everyone is now going through. Finally, we would like to remind you once again of the job opportunities, which are one of the measures that are very important for women who are outside the labour market, and that it is about making a return to the system that was before, and ensuring that women who are so far away from the labour market that they are dependent on social assistance also have access to job opportunities. It has been removed by the government, without it being possible to find any reason for it, for this is an action that has proved to be successful, which actually makes people come to work. And that must be the way to use the measures that are best suited for people to cope with the future. So then I'll take up our proposal that's in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24211	The representative Karin Andersen then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24216	The situation of infectious disease control measures and high unemployment due to outbreaks of covid-19 persists. The government has therefore proposed funds for a new package of measures in the field of integration and is continuing, inter alia. extended Norwegian training and extended programme time for participants in the final phase of the introduction programme. The measures require changes to the temporary law to include the new group of participants and the legislative proposal requires funds to be allocated. I suggest that participants who are currently in the final phase of the introduction programme be given the right to extended programming time by up to four months if they need to expand in order to get into work or education. I also propose that participants who complete training in Norwegian and social literacy this spring be entitled to Norwegian extended training for up to four months. New arrivals are among those who may face major challenges in getting into work as a result of the pandemic. With the measures I have now proposed, there is more opportunity to increase their skills and improve their chances of getting into work or education. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals. A brief comment on some of the other points that have been raised in the debate: when it comes to extending the introduction programme, there will be some need-tested and therefore not all the participants, so I do not share the fear that the representative, Mr. Engen-Helgheim, raised, that we get a lot of people going in programs without applying for a job. Nor is there any doubt that this is an incredibly difficult time to get into the labour market. Now it might be worse than ever, very many places. There's reason to both hope and believe that the situation will be better as we approach summer. A comment to the representative of the SV's proposal: Of course we will make a new assessment if we approach the summer and see that there is still no improvement in the situation. We will then consider whether it is right to extend this, or whether other measures might be even more effective. I believe that the government through this pandemic has shown that we are looking after this group, and that we are providing measures that work well for them, and that ensure that they get the time of crisis to build their skills instead of just going into unemployment. These are measures that will ensure that people are given the opportunity to strengthen their skills, and it is consistently for many of the crisis measures we have provided, that we focus on education, we are betting on the possibility of building skills so that hopefully we will be strengthened in the labour market later on. We also strengthen the job visibility of the latest crisis package that has been delivered, precisely because it is an important, good and accurate measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24248	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a replacement of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government, and those who had to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24255	In this proposal for a document, SV makes more proposals that they will probably find out in more detail about themselves. The background to the proposal is Mustafa-saka, and the individual case illustrates the difficult dilemmas and deviations that can be faced both by society and by foreign authorities. The decision-making authority has decided on such individual cases under the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs Act. It is not the first time that there are proposals on regulatory changes, review of practices and outsourcing when there is disagreement about the outcome of a single case. It was also done when SV put in government without significant changes to the legislation. It is important to bear in mind that we have a system of treatment for foreign affairs to ensure non-discrimination and justice under the legislation. UDI takes decisions at first instance and may appeal to the UNE Board of Appeal. Thereafter, it is possible to ask for a change in the form of new information, and the decisions of the UDI and UNE may be reviewed by the courts. The majority of the Committee, i.e. all parties without SV, there is no reason to stop all returns in all cases where long-term children have finally been rejected, so that their return must be postponed while we are waiting for a review of practice in these matters in UNE. However, the majority of the members of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the SV and the Centre, wish to review the practice and thus promote it in the configuration. The majority of the size doesn't think it's necessary, so the setting doesn't get multiples here in this room. In 2014, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right were some of the reasons why there was a need to provide guidance for the assessment of child residence permits because of strong human concern or special connection to the kingdom. So it was after eight years of red-green government management and SV that we made changes to ensure that the child's best was given greater weight than before. Paragraphs 8 to 5 of the Foreign Regulation state today that an assessment of the child’s best interests and his/her relationship with Norway is to be made before this is balanced against immigration-regulating concerns. UNE gave its feedback in January 2016 to the Ministry status on the use of the foreign policy § 8-5. The report shows, among other things: the proportion of families with children with relatively long withdrawal periods in Norway, i.e. residence time over four years and four months, of which one year's schooling, which has been subject to the adoption of its decisions and the granting of residence permits, increases from 45 pst. in practice reporting one year after the high-level notification Children in flight, in June 2013 – i.e. under the red-green – to 82 pst. after amendment of the Regulation on 8 December 2014, i.e. following the Government of Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24268	The Workers' Party stresses the importance of ensuring that the best interests of children are of fundamental importance in all matters relating to children. Norway is obliged to do this through the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. No child or youth shall remain in Norway for years in an unexplained situation. It is very unfortunate for the individual child and their family, who have to put life on hold, and that is unfortunate for integration. Long trial periods may in themselves be contrary to the best interests of children. It is therefore essential to ensure a rapid and effective procedure on issues involving children and young people. The Workers' Party is concerned that we are pursuing a fair asylum policy which is the responsibility of the Asylum Institute. The asylum system is for the purpose of providing residence to persons who actually have a need for protection. This means that we must also have strict demands that asylum seekers be honest about their identity and other facts in the matter. In recent years, critical searchlights have repeatedly been targeted at the foreign administration’s practices related to children’s best judgements. We know that matters dealing with long-term children are often complex and demanding to assess, including: in relation to the balance between the best interests of the child and the different aspects of immigration regulation. The non-resident administration often has to exercise considerable discretion in these matters. However, the Administrative Act imposes clear requirements on the obligation on the foreign authorities to justify their decisions. This is crucial, among other things: in order to ensure non-discrimination and predictability in the management of non-residents. The justification must be such that it is possible to ignore why management has fallen to different outcomes in similar cases. Therefore, the Workers' Party recommends that the vote be taken today: ‘The government is asked to review the best practice of the child in foreign affairs, to explain whether the foreign authorities are making a concrete and individual assessment on each case and whether they are making their specific assessments sufficiently visible in these cases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24284	Once again, we are in Stortingen to debate matters for asylum seekers who have no need of protection. I think it's strange that we spend time over and over again on obvious issues where people who don't have a need for protection have managed to get politicians to deal with their issues, when we have major problems around the world with increasing numbers of refugees who really need our attention. But let me be the first to say that Mustafa has been put in a very difficult situation. And there are many with him who have been put in a very difficult situation. I think this matter has been going on long enough. It's been in the system for many, many years and probably should have ended years ago. I think it's strange that SV uses such a simple thing to get themselves the PR around its policy. The only thing SV has done in this case is to propose new deferrals. They want to postpone the matter even further. I'm afraid it only creates more frustration, more false hopes and more despair. If it is that SV believes that the legislation is wrong, I am surprised that they have not made a single proposal to change it. If you think the legislation is wrong, you have to make concrete proposals to change it, but the only thing SV has done is to make proposals to postpone matters. But I know why there are no proposals for changes to the rules. It's because you know that we need strict legislation so that it doesn't have to be free for people who don't need protection or people who otherwise wonder about coming to Norway and staying here for no reason. It's going to affect those who need it. It's easy to look like red and heartwarming by pulling up these things, but the whole thing is I'm afraid gets the opposite effect. I hope that we can start spending more time in the future to figure out how to solve the challenges together with an increasing number of refugees. How are we going to give the best possible help to those who need it, and how are we going to make sure that the places we have in Norway go to those who need it the most? It's possible I'm wrong, but I don't remember that we've been in this room discussing individual things where there have been people who really need it. To these reviews of whether the legislation is being complied with: there we have the courts. Everything in this proposal has been taken care of by the courts, and I see no need to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24299	The Central Party will conduct a decent and responsible refugee and asylum policy based on our international commitments, a fair policy that takes care of the institution of asylum, but also makes strict demands that asylum seekers be honest about their identity and other facts. Asylum policy is served by broad cross-political agreement, and any changes should come as a result of broad policy solutions. The proposers wish to suspend all return cases until a clarification has been made in the legislation on residence permits due to strong human considerations or specific links with the Reich, on the basis of a case-by-case approach. The size has placed the decision-making authority in individual cases under the Foreign Affairs Directorate and Foreign Affairs Act. The Director of Foreign Affairs takes decisions at first instance and may be appealed against to the Board of Appeal for the Study of Foreign Affairs. Then it is possible to request a conversion if new information is available. The judgments of UDI and UNE may also be reviewed by the courts. It is an important principle that the Storting does not deal with individual matters. The centre party would stress that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration in all matters relating to children. A rapid clarification that ensures legal certainty is important in all asylum cases, and we should ensure that no children remain in Norway for years in an unexplained situation. Long proceedings may in themselves be contrary to the best interests of the child. Things that deal with long-term children are often complex and demanding to assess. The Administrative Act imposes strict obligations on the foreign authorities to justify their decisions. It is important to ensure non-discrimination and predictability. The nature of the justification must be such that it is possible to ignore why the management has fallen to different outcomes in seemingly similar cases. In order to ensure that this requirement is met, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, promotes proposals for such a review. As regards proposal No: 3, it is clear that a child is a person under the age of 18 and that he will be considered to be an adult after that age. This means that residence time, in particular vulnerability and possible child protection measures will be included in an overall assessment after the age of 18. Proposal No. 4 deals with clarification of immigration policy considerations, which we consider to be taken into account in the preparatory work of the Act of Prop. 75 for 2006-2007, which clearly mentions the conditions to be covered by the concept of ‘immigration regulatory considerations’. The disclosure of incorrect identity, nationality, etc. shall not be profitable. There are reasons against the granting of a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24320	As legislators, we have a duty to see if the laws we have passed are working as they should. They do not do so today in the foreign field in the case of children who have been here for a long time. Today I have met Mustafa, as many have talked about in this matter, but he is not alone. There are several who are in the same situation, and there are also six sharp-headed lawyers who have sent a letter to the Stortinget, where they call an alarm because Norway violates ‘basic legal standards enshrined in national legislation and binding conventions’. That's what this case is about. I hope the government and the majority will soon hear the alarm, for the sake of children and for the sake of what kind of country Norway should be, because we can do better than this. Norway has legislation to ensure that the best interests of the child are taken into account in foreign affairs. Nevertheless, there are many things that get unfair results, because immigration-regulating considerations always win. And the courts and the judiciary are very little available to these people, because they don't have funds. They rely on private collections to take their case to court. Mustafa's case is one of many examples. He came to Norway when he was six. He's grown up here, until the summer he completes high school. For him, Norway is the home country. It's the same for other people who grew up here. But now he's going to be thrown out, because the alien authorities think his mother gave up something wrong when he was six years old. Mustafa can't do anything for this. His brother, Abdel, has been given residence because of strong human considerations and long residence in Norway, a quite similar matter, with two completely different outcomes. Norway has been convicted in a similar case in the EMD, Butt case, where it was said that if the child is not sent out with the parents, Norway cannot wait until the child is 18 years old and then invokes immigration-regulating considerations and sends him out. It is not an indication in a single case, it is a precedent that is binding on Norway. But the practice of the foreign student does not follow this. That is why SV is promoting proposals in Stortinget to this effect. If it's going to make any sense to go through these issues, the issues have to be put on hold, otherwise the majority here accepts that you continue to deal with these issues. – I have to ask for the word again, but I will address the suggestions included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24335	The representative Karin Andersen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24340	The representative, Andersen and SV, should be commended for bringing an important matter to debate at Stortinget. The left is often combined with the SV on asylum and immigration issues. But it was first with the Left and Christian People's Party in a committed, non-socialist government cooperation we got a more humane and fair asylum and immigration policy in the country. The left has always struggled to make the best interests of children more important when dealing with asylum applications. Children should not love because parents have done wrong. It was an important breakthrough when we made extensive changes to the foreign law § 38 seven years ago. The intention was crystal clear: Children who have bad roots should be here. Now, humanitarian care must outweigh immigration-regulating concerns. Since then, several families of children who have bid for a long time in the country have been reversing their decisions and having been given rest periods. Nevertheless, sometimes things emerge from the information that is publicly known are difficult to understand, as is the history of Mustafa Hasan, who has bid 13 of his 18 years in Norway. As you can see, it is very gratifying and important that the last Friday it was made clear that the government is now setting down a working group to look at how the legislation should focus on the best interests of children in matters of suspension. The working group shall review practices with regard to issues involving children and any need for regulatory changes shall be assessed. In the Granavolden Government Platform, we are also agreed to have a new review of the complaint in the foreign field. If it was up to the left, we should of course go further. But we're safe with the government, because the option is far worse. Just before Christmas, the Centre Party and the Progress Party supported – and thus several – the Workers’ Party’s proposal to further streamline asylum policy. It was a warning about what kind of policies we get if there's a government change. Under the red-green government, over 400 children were at risk of being sent out of the country – 400 innocent children, in total uncertain and in no man’s country, year after year. There are such heartbreaking things that have been monthly fewer after the changes in the rules in 2014. I hope that in any new government configuration, SV will not forget their fine primary positions again if they are to negotiate a new government platform. Never did the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24361	The children are the most important thing in our society, and the responsibility for their woe lies on the shoulders of all of us. We fight all our battles to be able to accommodate this responsibility. For the Christian People's Party, this goes down to the core of what keeps us KrFs together – the children and the family, in a fight where the children and the child's best are to be held high. It is absolutely essential that we all play our role. Children shall not be punished for their parents' faults. For a long time it has been clear to the Christian People's Party that there is a need for a comprehensive review of how the threshold for expulsion in matters affecting children is practiced. Today I am pleased that SV fights in its role as opposition party for a proposal that I also stood as the proposer when the Christian People's Party was in opposition. Today and the last weeks I have played in a new theme in this matter, but let me point out that I have not fought anything less for that reason. Norway has legislation to ensure that special consideration is given to long-term children in foreign affairs. The Christian People's Party has always considered that concrete and individual assessments of the child's best interests are important. That is why we received a big victory in 2014 by introducing sections 8 to 5 of the foreign policy. The applicant proposes that an assessment be made of the child’s best interests and the child’s relationship with Norway, and that individual assessments be made on the child’s best interests in each case. From the practice reporting from UNE, we see that the implementation of § 8-5 has had an effect. Despite this, there are still examples of issues that may have an unreasonable impact on the balance between the best, strong human interests of the child and immigration-regulating considerations. We are all affected by individual issues raised in the media one by one, and our job as politicians is to look for common features or structures that need new or changed policy solutions. I am therefore pleased that the government is now setting up a working group to assess the threshold for expulsion in matters relating to children. Deportation is a very interventional measure, and especially in matters relating to children. We need to take a closer look at how the child's best and immigration-regulating considerations are weighted. The working group shall now examine how the threshold of expulsion cases involving children is practised and shall make proposals for changes where they see the need for it. The Christian People's Party has long thought that such a review is necessary, and now it is finally to be done. The working group shall assess the need for changes in Norwegian rules or guidelines related to the best interests of the child in the foreign administration. We have high expectations that these will contribute to the child’s best being cared for to a greater extent than today. The children are the most precious thing we have, and consideration for them must weigh heavily. Immigration regulatory considerations shall not thwart everything. On the basis of the government working group, we therefore vote against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24381	On paper we have legislation to ensure that special consideration is given to children and young people in foreign affairs. Still, we see over and over again that that's the opposite that happens. So immigration-regulating considerations are heavier than children's best. We've seen it in the case of 18-year-old Mustafa Hasan, who has attended school in Norway since 1st grade and has his whole life here. The same applies to Tønsberg children Delnaz, Khairi and Della, all of whom were born in Norway. Common to them is that they are now being punished because UNE believes that parents have provided incorrect information. These matters affect the entire community. Young people stand up for their friends against government policies, which treat children differently depending on where their parents come from. This has brutal consequences for the children. The government says that children of immigrants are expected to be punished for acts that someone else has committed, while Red says no to racism. The local commitment, where neighbours, friends and others in the community are engaged, shows us that there is popular opposition to humanitarian considerations being set aside. In Norway, we do not punish children for their parents ’ actions. All issues relating to long-term asylum seekers must be raised until an independent review of the practice of the foreign student in such cases has been carried out. Red also supports the inclusion of cases of withdrawal of a residence permit and cases relating to persons with a long period of residence who have reached the age of 18. What we need is that the best and humanitarian interests of the child are actually taken into account. As a result of removing the reasonableness condition of returns, the threshold has been lowered in several cases. The unreasonable consequences of removing this part of the refugee right is natural to include in a wider review. Norway is being criticised by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees for this practice. We can't have it like that. So-called immigration regulatory considerations have been used to destroy too many lives. That's enough. Norway must stop deporting children and young people to insecurity. For children are primarily children, and now it's time for the government to take it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24394	The proposals in this case have their background in the case of Mustafa Hasan, who has aroused much commitment and much debate, and I understand that. Now Oslo has to reconsider the validity of the decision of the foreign student, i.e. a new assessment in line with the system we have for the review of administrative decisions. It is therefore my opinion that this matter does not give rise to the need to adopt any of the proposals that have been put forward. On the contrary, I believe that it would be quite unfortunate if we did not have to make any returns for long-term children pending a practical review, as proposed in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Redemption as such may be effected only by amendments to the law or regulation. I therefore believe that there is no need for any legislative change here. Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act ensures that the assessment of the child’s best is carried out – that there is a fundamental concern in all cases. In accordance with Sections 8 to 5 of the Regulation, more is needed to give decisive emphasis to immigration-regulating considerations as the child has a stronger relationship. The refusal shall also be sound in the best interests of the child. UNE reported on the use of the provision in 2016. Following its introduction in 2014, the proportion of people who stayed increased from 45 pst. to 82 pst. The increase shows that the best of the child and its relationship with Norway are given greater weight than before. Then it is my opinion that there is no need for a review of practice. Withdrawal cases are assessed according to § 38 and § 8-5 of the Regulation. The legislation is therefore in place. There is also a regulatory requirement for justification in all decisions involving children. Assessments shall be made, taking into account the child’s situation, immigration regulatory considerations and the balance of conflicting considerations. For those who have reached the age of 18 years and remain under the care of child protection, age and other conditions, such as residence, vulnerability and the importance of child protection measures, are all included in the assessment under Section 38. Finally, I do not think that there is a need for an independent investigation of immigration-regulating considerations. This is already mentioned in the preparatory work of the law, and § 38 also provides examples of what such considerations may be. The relevant considerations must be decided on a case-by-case basis in a specific assessment. UNE has a high level of non-discrimination awareness and has mechanisms to avoid such practices. As indicated in the Granavolden Declaration, it is decided that the Government should review the appeal procedure. We are now working on concrete proposals for changes to the rules, including: the right to attend, to attend and to consult children. We will be promoting a matter of that in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24416	It is important that people trust the administration and the foreign authorities because it is about having confidence in the asylum institution – that those who have the right to protection get it that those who do not have the right to protection have to return quickly and do not have to live an uncertain life for very many years. The Labour Party is committed to justice, non-discrimination and predictability in asylum policy. I think it's a sign of health when things that deal with children and youth, engage in society. It shows that we care. The government has pointed out that the regulatory change made in 2014 has contributed to the child’s best being generally given greater weight today. Nevertheless, in recent years, critical searchlights have repeatedly been targeted at the foreign administration’s practices related to children’s best judgements. Why does the government not support the Workers' Party's proposal for a review of the child's best practice in foreign affairs, so that we can have a common and quality-proof basis to assess and discuss this issue further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24425	It is simply because I trust that the change in practice and the change in regulation that was made have led to changes in administration. And I trust that the administration will take the necessary consideration in these matters. In 2014, we received an investigation, a R & D report – Children in Asylum Matters – an evaluation and monitoring of how the child’s situation is highlighted in the proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Department’s proceedings, including the consultation of children. It was a thorough report. All the evidence suggests that the cases were well informed in various instances, and there was no evidence to suggest that the cases were settled in practice without sufficient information under the Administration Act. It is also the case that specific requirements are laid down in § 17-1a for reasons contained in decisions concerning just children. In view of that, we do not believe that there is a need for the investigation that the Workers' Party is asking for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24432	It may be nice to get an explanation, because today representatives from both the Left and the Christian People's Party have said that they have received a victory, and that there should be a review of this. What is this group actually going to look at? For now, the Minister for Immigration really has defused what representatives from the Left and the Christian People's Party say.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24437	No, I don't. This working group will look at issues relating to the expulsion of parents, where there are children involved who are Norwegian citizens, or who have a residence permit in Norway. These are the things to review. One should not look at issues where children do not have a residence permit on their own basis, but issues of expulsion to look at the practice related to the best of the children in those cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24442	That's a little bit of the same starting point we have when we promote this proposal that the government parties choose to vote in the main hall. The Children's Convention and our own constitution state that all children have the right to be heard, and confirm that the best interests of children should be a fundamental consideration in all matters relating to children. UNE has carried out a review of 54 expulsion cases involving children, which shows that UNE did not hear children orally in any of these cases. What will the government do to ensure children's right to be heard in matters relating to them, as the Children's Convention actually requires?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24449	I just have to repeat that there are practices related to the expulsion decisions of parents with children to be reviewed. This might be where the misunderstanding arises. It is not for children who do not otherwise fulfil the conditions of stay. Families are a unit, and it's a unit that we, of course, very little as societies enter and dissolve. We look at the complaint review related to UNE's proceedings. It is true that when there is no doubt or substantial doubt, as it is called, in the decision, it is not possible to have an oral hearing. But we're going through it and we're going to come up with a case about it in less than a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24456	The Council of State indicates that Mustafa's case has now been taken to court, and that is correct. But it's a growing problem that UNE does not comply with judicial decisions, even in cases won by the Supreme Court. UNE then chooses to re-arrival and take new decisions. The judicial review of administrative decisions is an unwritten customary practice with the order of the Constitution. The failure of the Foreign Service to respect these decisions is a serious violation of fundamental principles of the rule of law, and it is alarming that UNE, which is a purely complaint subject, also acts as a first instance body in cases they have brought to justice. Do the Councils see these dilemmas? And is the Council of State familiar with these matters and this practice, among other things. that the case lost in the Supreme Court returns to UNE and is dealt with by one of its members alone? In such cases there must be doubt?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24465	I understand that the representative asked me about individual matters. I'm not going to comment on them, that's not the system we have either. But if it's the case that UNE is convicted of violating legal or administrative practices related to this, I would like to know. It's UNE not. On the contrary, the Court has recognised the UNE's procedure in the cases to which it is addressed – and I am therefore responding on a general basis, because I do not know what specific matters the representative refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24471	It is a little alarming that the Council of State does not follow up on what is happening in the judiciary in this area, and sees that there are such cases. This is one of the appeal points in the alarm that Stortinget has received from lawyers. The second is that Norway has been convicted in the European Court of Human Rights for a violation of the Convention, in a case similar to that of Mustaphaas, the Butt case. The parents left the country, the children stayed. They turned 18, and Norway said that there were immigration-regulating considerations and would throw them out. Norway was convicted, and not only in that case, but on a principle basis, that this was a violation of the Convention. How has the Council of State ensured that the practice of EMD that Norway should follow is followed in the administration?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24480	I just have to repeat that UNE is not convicted in any case for breaking its competence. On the contrary, the Supreme Court has stated that the general rule seems to be that the review bodies have the competence to take a new decision after the original appeal decision has been declared invalid by judgment. That is what the Supreme Court has said, if that is the matter to which the representative refers. Then, of course, it is that we should follow all our international obligations, and when there are changes to the international obligations, or a judgment in the EMD, it is made known through dialogue with our administrative apparatus, through circulars, through instructions, and through changes in regulations and laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24487	What the Council of State says now, is completely contrary to what the Council of State said last time we discussed this. The question then was: what has the Council of State done to ensure that this judgment is actually implemented and that practices are changed in Norway? And then the government replied that it hasn't done anything about it, because it's up to UNE and UDI to focus on. It's actually wrong. But if the government has now sent instructions and circulars and changed the regulations in this area, I would like to know what the government has done, because this has an impact on such matters that we are now discussing, namely that Norway has to deal with and interpret the obligations we have in the EMD, as the court says they should be interpreted. It is then necessary for the government to instruct and ensure that administrative practices are changed in line with the judgments of the Court of Justice on Norway’s practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24494	It was a rather bleak representation of my answer last time. I said very clearly that it was both UNES and UDI's responsibility to keep up-to-date with what is happening, both in the event of changes in international conventions and in the case of judges. So it's the case that the judges who dismiss us are legal sources for us in cases that are the same. Now it's very rare that two things are the same. What I said, in general, was that our responsibility for our administrative apparatus to follow up our international obligations, we take it through dialogue with the administrative apparatus, we take it through regulations, through circulars and through regulatory changes. There is a general answer to a question about how we keep up-to-date on case law internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24501	Then the cord shift is over. The following speakers also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24508	In this area, there is therefore a need for a review of the legislation, and I note that the Minister of Justice has now parked the so-called Left and Christian People's Party's claims to have these matters reviewed. It is sad, because I know that they really agree with SV in these matters, and I am very pleased with the changes that the Left and Christian People's Party has made in the government, also with the support of SV as an opposition party. These were issues that SV took on these in our government, because we disagreed very much about what happened. That's why it's very sad to see that you can't now take the consequences of what you actually know, and get these things put in order and go through the code. Because it is not that lawyers come to Stortinget and call an alarm for no reason. That's a reason, and that's that the practice is now slipping into the administration all the time. That's what's happened, because there's been a round of intrusions here, and then the Storting must intervene, and then you have to change the practice. And that's because the political climate is so that immigration-regulating considerations now seem to trump everything. I think I'm going to repeat: the Mustapha case is a single thing, but it's an example of how immigration-regulating considerations now trump the child's best to too much, and that's the point. And when Norway is convicted in similar cases – they look exactly alike – and there is no trace of it in dealing with the cases, we as legislators have to take responsibility for checking that practice is actually in line with what it should be, even with the judgments that Norway is obliged to comply with in the European Court of Human Rights. So being concerned with individual matters, which some people obviously think are wrong, is that as elected representatives and legislators, we have to see if the law that we have adopted is used, and when it is not used as we have said it should be used, we have to ask for it to go through, and that we get it fixed. I have even heard here today that SV has not made proposals for changes to the legislation. Yes, we have, also in this case, and in the next case, and in many cases, because there is a need for it. But we also want a review of the issues to see that we fulfil our international obligations under both the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why we want a review and that the matter is put on hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24519	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24536	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, the opportunity will be given for a sequence change of up to six lines with replies after contributions from members of the government, and those who have signed up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24543	The proposal of the representative takes on board proposals to reintroduce the requirement of reasonableness in the assessment of internal flow by amending Law 15 May 2008 No. 35 on the access of non-residents to the State and their residence here, proposals to withdraw the instructions of the Foreign Administration on the cessation of refugee status and the practice of cessation cases in line with the UNHCR interpretation of the UN Convention on Refugees and proposals that the Government should provide for a short period of time for proceedings in cases of cessation of refugee status. The Committee refers to the Refugee Convention Article 1 C(l) 5 and 6 on provisions for the cessation of refugee status when the need for protection is no longer present. In June 2016, the majority of the Storting became a member of the Board of Governors in order to remove the reasonableness condition that had previously been the subject of in-house refugee assessments. The condition for referring someone to an internal flight is that the applicant can obtain effective protection in this area. This means that the area must be safe and accessible to the foreigner. Norway is bound by the Refugee Convention Article 33 and the European Convention on Human Rights Article 3. This means that no one can be returned to persecution, death penalty, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. These obligations cannot be broken when reference is made to internal flight. In those cases where reference can be made to internal migration, consideration shall always be given to whether there is any reason to grant a residence permit under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, a residence permit due to strong human interests or a particular connection with the State. The considerations previously assessed under the reasonableness condition are now assessed under this provision. The majority of the Committee, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, support the proposal to provide for a short period of time for proceedings on matters relating to the cessation of refugee status. As far as the rapporteur is concerned. The working party considers it appropriate to retain the possibility of taking decisions on the cessation of refugee status in cases where the grounds for protection have lapsed before a permanent residence permit has been granted. However, I would like to stress that the cessation provision must be practised in such a way as to minimise its negative impact on integration and not place undue uncertainty and stress on individuals. An example of such an unfortunate practice was when, in 2020, the foreign authorities dropped cases to 600 Somalis after they had first received notice of termination and then waited four years in uncertainty about their future. The lack of clarification between the ministry and the non-resident management must have been a contributing factor in this situation. Such practices can be very damaging to integration and to individuals. The Workers' Party assumes that in the future the Ministry will ensure that all necessary clarifications and assessments have been made before issuing advance notice of termination of refugee status. In view of this, we support the proposal that the government should provide for a shorter period of time in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24560	This is not the first time SV has proposed reintroducing the rhyme condition. In June 2016, a number of Stortinget’s majority decided to lift the criterion of arrogance that was previously applicable to the in-house refugee assessment. Right thinks this was a correct and good decision, and we don't want to reintroduce the rhyme condition. Removal of the readiness condition is not contrary to the UN Convention on Refugees, as claimed by SV. It is true that no one is entitled to international protection if one can obtain adequate protection — if possible — in an area of its own country, in the country from which the refugee comes. Norway is, of course, bound by the Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights. This means that no one can be sent back to prosecution, death penalty, torture, or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Of course, these obligations should not be broken when referred to as "internal flight". The pressure on migration towards Europe is still high, and there are still many refugees and irregular migrants in the neighbourhoods of Europe. The right is that we must give priority to those people who have a need for protection. In the same way as in our closest neighbouring countries, as in Sweden and Denmark, it is also important for the Right that we in Norway can also withdraw residence permits and refugee status, and thus do not give right to further suspension when there is no longer a need for protection. Being able to demonstrate internal migration will ensure non-discrimination with new asylum seekers from the same country who are refused the asylum application on the grounds that they can take up residence in other safe areas of their home country. Right does not mean that it can be read by the wording of the Refugee Convention that internal flight cannot be used in termination cases. There are, of course, many examples of the fact that the practice of cessation of refugee status and withdrawal of residence permits may have a negative impact on individual motivation for participation in integration measures. Of course, the majority of refugees with temporary residence permits in Norway want to stay in the country. However, the right-wing point is that the concern that we should provide protection as long as it is needed, and not necessarily any longer, must go beyond the consideration of weight motivation and the lack of integration of the individual. In any case, training and participation in the labour market will be useful and positive for those returning to their home country. Implemented integration measures and initial training and work experience will never be wasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24577	It is also not the first time we are discussing this particular proposal. It is common for these cases to promote a number of claims that prove to be non-target. A common claim that was in the previous case and is also in this case is that Norway violates international obligations and that it also violates its own guidelines. It's a statement that comes out very often, but it doesn't hold up. The criterion of proportionality is not a binding rule of international law and the refugee convention is not violated by the implementation of Norway’s practices. There should be fairly little doubt about that. The Progress Party believes it is entirely right to have positions on the fact that most of the Foreign Affairs Act and the asylum policy legislation will be softened all the time, but it must also be said that it does not push arguments in front of it that are not correct, for Norway has a practice that is in line with the commitments we have. This has been thoroughly tested several times. We have recently reached an end to the High Court in the Farida case, which shows that Norwegian practice keeps water, it keeps goals. It is also wrong to present an image of unfair protection in a safe part of their country of origin. It's a wrong claim. It's actually an effective way to provide protection in their own country. In a lot of these cases, it's always like those who want decorations are trying to produce Norwegian politics as inhumane. You try to make it almost like a punishment if you can't be in Norway. So it's not a punishment to be in Norway if we contribute to protection elsewhere. The only thing that leads to this is that we take away some of the pressure on our own asylum system and are able to help more of those who need it, and fewer of those who don't have to be here to get protection. That really is the whole basis for the debate, because in all such cases an assessment is made as to whether it is reasonable to be in Norway and to be protected, or whether it is reasonable to be in their home country and to be protected, and then all considerations have been taken into account. I also respect the wish of the proposers to constantly soften the legislation, so that, finally, there are very few restrictions on who should be and not, but there should not be any other arguments in front of them that have been rejected over and over again. I think it's good that we've had a majority over several years now that's been taking part in many of the tightening-up of the Progress Party. This was one of them, and it contributes in the long run to a more humane and a better and fairer and responsible immigration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24588	This proposal for a representative promotes three proposals for the cessation of refugee status and also proposes the reintroduction of the reasonableness condition. It is proposed that the Storting should ask the Government to withdraw the instructions to the foreign authorities for the cessation of refugee status. The directive has its background in the asylum agreement in Stortinget, and the Central Party believes it is important that we have a predictable refugee and immigration policy and that the asylum agreement should be firm. The Centre Party considers it appropriate to maintain the possibility of taking decisions on the cessation of refugee status in cases where the protection basis has fallen before granting a permanent residence permit and therefore does not support the proposal. However, we would like to stress that the cessation provision must be applied in such a way as to minimise the negative impact on integration and not place undue uncertainty and stress on individuals. We assume that in the future the Ministry will ensure that all necessary clarifications and assessments have been made before prior notice of termination of refugee status is sent out. Furthermore, it is proposed that the government should practice the cessation of refugee status in line with the UNHCR’s interpretation of the UN Convention on Refugees. A broad majority of the Grand Duchy wants to take advantage of the possibility offered by the Convention of Refugees to recall refugee status when the refugee no longer needs protection. The centre lot will point out that there will be significant and permanent changes, not changes that are expected to be short-lived or where the security policy situation in the home country remains unstable. It is also important to stress that UNHCR recommendations are not binding on Norwegian foreign authorities. The majority of the committee proposes that we ask the government to provide for a short period of time. Termination alerts create uncertainties that may be unfortunate for integration, even in cases that do not end with withdrawal of status. When it turns out that it can take up to four years from withdrawal notice until there is a clarification of residence status, it is totally unacceptable. The procedure must be legal and sound, but it must provide for as short a period of time as possible. It will make it better for everyone, no matter what the outcome of the treatment is. Proposals are also made for the reintroduction of the reasonableness condition. During the examination of the asylum agreement, the majority of the Stortinge were in favour of lifting the reasonableness condition that previously prevailed in the event of an internal refugee. One does not have requirements for international protection if there is sufficient protection in another area of the country from which a refugee is living. It's in line with the refugee convention. The central party believes it is important to have a predictable refugee policy. That is why we took the initiative in the conciliation on asylum, and we stand firm on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24603	I would like to address the suggestions we have made in the vote. According to the UN, the refugee convention is not to be interpreted in the manner that Norway does in cessation cases. Termination is about individual relationships, volunteering, i.e. your own desire to return, that you have lost original citizenship and can get it back when you have a different and new citizenship and voluntarily establish yourself in the country of origin or another country, says the United Nations. That is not what the majority and the government have adopted. The use of internal flight in cessation cases is particularly critical because Norway no longer makes the assessment of the reasonableness of the individual to be returned to internal flight. This means that the situation is not stable in the country to which it is returned, which is a prerequisite for its cessation, as the United Nations says it is. It is a bit outrageous to hear that Norway is clearly not obliged to do so, but this is not about what I mean, what the Council of State thinks, or what representatives here think. This is about how these obligations are, how the Convention is and how it is to be understood. I hear more people say that Norway's practice is within reach, as it should be understood. It is contrary to what the United Nations is telling the Storing and the Government when matters are being dealt with. It is contrary to what the United Nations says to the Norwegian judiciary when these matters are being dealt with, and it is contrary to what UNE also said to both the government and the Stortinget when the proposal was up. Then UNE said: ‘The state practice we have outlined here argues that Norway is obliged by international law to have a reasonable condition in the event of an internal migration It means, once again, that it will not be sufficient to grant authorisation to the applicant under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act.’ [[...]] It said UNE, who should be the government's expert body on this. There is no doubt that what the United Nations has said to both magnification and government is that it should be what they call the ‘reasonableness criterion’, which is, of course, reasonable conditions, and that they are obliged to have it. I see time goes out here, so I get to ask again for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24621	The representative, Karin Andersen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24626	No person seeking asylum shall be entitled to international protection if internal migration in their own country is possible. In June 2016, a majority at Stortinget agreed that the reasonableness condition should be lifted in the event of an internal flight, and I believe it was a correct decision. Norway is not obliged by international law to have such a condition and the suspension ensures non-discrimination and clarifies the legislation. I believe that our national legislation should be clear when there is an obligation to give refugee status. Then it is important to stress that in any case Norway cannot return anyone to persecution, death penalty, torture, inhumane or degrading treatment or punishment. Foreigners’ authorities shall also always assess whether there is a basis for granting a humanitarian residence permit when reference is made to internal migration. In November 2015, a majority of the Stortinget decided that if the need for protection had fallen due to changes in the country of origin, the cessation of refugee status would be more likely to be practised. The government followed up the Storting decision in an instruction to the Foreign Affairs Directorate in the spring of 2016. The purpose of the refugee convention is to provide protection to persons who cannot receive it in their own country. The Refugee Convention has its own provisions on the cessation of refugee status, which have been retained by the Foreign Affairs Act. The government's instructions are within the framework of both the Refugee Convention and the Foreign Affairs Act. I have noticed that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, does not recommend the use of internal refugees in termination cases. To that end, I would like to point out that the UNHCR recommendations are not binding on Norway, although they are normally given great weight. I also point out that the issue has recently been dealt with by the Supreme Court, which believes that internal migration can be taken into account in termination cases. It is a goal that all cases under the Foreign Affairs Act should be handled correctly and without undue delay. Termination and revocation are an important and priority area. Unfortunately, the procedure has proved to be too long in many of the cases in this portfolio. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is in dialogue with the UDI on this matter and closely monitor developments in the course of proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24649	When the United Nations says to the Storting that the reasonableness condition is part of our obligations under the Refugee Convention in Article 1 A, paragraph. 2, and says that the amendment adopted in June 2016 constitutes a violation of international law, so the government says it does not. UNE said in the same case that what they explained spoke of Norway being obliged by international law to have a reasonable condition in the event of an internal flight. Can the Council of State confirm that it is only a purely political decision and not a legal assessment of our obligations that lie behind the government's position in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24655	I can confirm that the UNHCR has made a recommendation to Norway. Then I can confirm that the government, the Stortinget and the Court of Justice do not consider that we have such an obligation under international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24660	This is not a recommendation; this is an interpretation of the Convention given by the UNHCR. As I understand it, Norway, by joining the Convention on Refugees, is also linked to the UNHCR as a guide in interpreting the Treaty. If it does not mean that every country can interpret this as they please, and that there will be no legislation that will regulate how to deal with difficult situations that may be of major political disagreement, for example. Does that mean that the Council of State believes that UNE, when they believe that we are obliged by international law to have such a reasonable condition, is also wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24665	I see that the representative disagrees politically with the government, with a majority in Stortinget and with the Court of Justice. Of course you can. It is therefore the government, the Grand Duchy and the Court of Justice's view that we do not have an obligation under international law, that the UNHCR's recommendation is not binding, but that it should, of course, weigh heavily. That's what I've been explaining, and that's what the government has and the Court has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24670	I'm not the one who disagrees with the foreign agencies and UNE. It is the Council of State and the majority here who disagree on how that interpretation is. I am dealing with the interpretation given by the United Nations and UNE of our obligations. But with regard to the abolition clause in the UN Convention on Refugees, it might be interesting to hear the Council of State explain what it is like and how it should be interpreted. For what is going on now is not within the scope of the termination clause of the Refugee Convention either. So I'd like to hear the Council of State explain how the termination clause is and is to be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24675	I think it's very special. We dealt with just the previous case, where the representative at all did not base the UNE's interpretation of his case, of his competence, but on the contrary believed that UNE was completely wrong. In this case, the representative therefore believes that it is UNE's interpretation that is the only right – when the government and a majority on the Stortinget, and the court, have said that it is not. So we have no obligation under international law, but we do a thorough examination of each case, and we assume that we should not return people who are subjected to torture, punishment or other inhumane treatment. So this is a rule where we satisfy the human consideration requirement in all ways. But we're not going to have to have a reasonable view, because we don't think we're obliged to have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24680	The councils combine two completely different things. This is about UNE's interpretation of our obligations under the Refugee Convention, and the second was about developing UN practices in dealing with cases. But back to my question, to which I was not given an answer: can the Council of States explain how the termination clause of the refugee convention is and is to be understood, as it is now interpreted quite differently from what I have been informed by the UN and the UNHCR that the cessation clause is to be interpreted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24687	I totally disagree with that. What the representative said in the previous case was that UNE's understanding of the law and its practice were de facto errors. I don't mean it, but the representative meant it. So it is now believed that UNE is the only legal source of interpretation – in this case. It may be, but it tells one thing, and it's that lawyers can often disagree on the interpretation of laws. In this case, therefore, the government, a majority of the Stortinget and Norwegian courts have a different view than the representative. Then, in my transmission to Stortinget, I have explained how we perceive this. That statement has been given to the representative, and I have also explained it in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24694	Replicate cord shift complete. The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24701	Clearly, the Council of State will not recognise that there is a great difference between an interpretation relating to our responsibilities in terms of the reasonableness condition — to have it in Norwegian law, the advice given — and the practices developed in relation to long-term children in the UN. These are two very different things. In addition, the UNHCR is very clear that we have a duty to have a level playing field. This reasonableness condition becomes even more important when the government and the majority of the population want to use the cessation clause in a way that is not the basis for the refugee convention, for that provision is about volunteering, that the whole country of origin is safe, that there is a stable situation. So here the government and the majority have tried to use the termination clause in, for example. a number of issues relating to Somalia. You don't have to be very much informed about the situation in the world to know that the situation there is in no way stable. In addition, by adopting this case of recalling the use of a lot of resources, you have created a lot of insecurity in a whole range of families. One day they are asked to integrate, to become Norwegian, to learn Norwegian, to start working and beating roots, and the other day they say that you might have to withdraw your residence permit after many, many, many years. So this is going to be zero. We've used a lot of resources here. In 2020, the Ministry of Justice and Defence posted 600 cases for Somalis, who had had to wait four years for a decision. It is not just that this can have a negative impact on integration; it is well documented that such a practice is destructive to integration. So here's the government and the majority on the wild roads. This practice and this provision have simply to be removed, and that is why SV now deals with these matters. As this has now been, no one has had any use of it. You've only used a lot of resources, created a lot of insecurity and achieved nothing. That is why SV is promoting these proposals today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24710	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24727	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes per party group and 5 minutes per government member. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to six rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24734	This is a proposal by the Socialist Left Party, based on the events of May 2020 in the United States, where George Floyd died in connection with an attack that generated some demonstrations in the United States, but which also later created demonstrations in Norway where claims were made about Norwegian police, and then in comparison with the police in the United States. In concrete terms, the SV proposes: ‘1. The size asks the government to ensure that all ID checks are logged, in line with the Circular of the Police’s exercise of foreign controls on the territory, including in border areas [[RPOD-2020-11 – RPOD-2001-21]] 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to ensure that the statistics on the ID controls under the Foreign Affairs Act become publicly available and searchable.» This does not get a majority in the committee, nor here in the Chamber. I am very pleased that the committee unanimously states that there is no reporting or research to support the fact that Norwegian police are characterised by extensive institutional or structural racism. The proposals from SV will be put to the vote. Then I will take off the case rapporteur's hat and choose to be a little more clear. I would like to see that we avoided dealing with this type of proposal in this room. You've been involved in creating a picture, an impression of the Norwegian police that doesn't belong to reality at all. You draw parallels to the situation you've seen in the United States, which is very different from that in Norway. The demonstrations we saw in Norway last year, and some claims made in the media, made from the very left side of Norwegian politics, were directly unprofessional and harmful to Norwegian police, and totally without any foundation in reality. The situation cannot be compared with police violence and intimidation in the United States with the situation in Norway. Norway may have the best police in the world; well-educated, withholding the use of power where it is not necessary — very detained, yes, some might say for detainees. Trying to claim that you are engaged in ethnic profiling or in any way trying to compare Norwegian police with the racism claimed elsewhere in the world is going to be directly wrong. I mean, from my party's perspective, that it helps to lower the debate to a low. I would like this proposal from SV to never see the light of the day, because there is again a kind of impression that the Norwegian police are engaged in ethnic profiling, and that – under-communicated – there is something more here, which is not at all correct. The Progress Party is proud of the police we have. We have good police training, we have good police officers – politicians, policemen – who do an important job in society every day, and they don't deserve to be suspected in the job they do. That's why I'm very happy that there's a very large majority here today. It's not just the Progress Party and the government parties that are helping to vote this proposal down, it's actually the Center Party as well. That is good, because we must have a continuous approach to the Norwegian police. We cannot accept that the Norwegian police, who sit on the monopoly of power use, will be a victim of political debate, as we have seen in other countries. It does not serve the police, it does not serve society, and it does not serve the confidence of the state as such. These proposals are rejected, and that is good. Then we'll be glad that in Norway we have a completely different situation than what you unfortunately see in many other places in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24762	This matter is about being sure that the police are properly carrying out ID checks, and in a way that does not contribute to a greater distance between the police and parts of the population. I think the police themselves are interested in that too. Our impression of the Norwegian police is that they are concerned about getting clean and not increasing the level of conflict, and also having good communication with all parts of the population. For the Workers' Party, this issue is about ensuring legitimacy for the police's work. We are pleased that in a joint committee comment, the entire committee stresses that there is no reporting or research to support the fact that Norwegian police are characterised by extensive institutional or structural racism. We also have great faith in the police. They are competent, professionally qualified and also able to endure a substantive social debate here in the main hall. For the Workers' Party, it is important that there are no unnecessary obstacles to the police's efforts to carry out identity checks in order to prevent people from staying in the country illegally, but we believe it is appropriate to ensure proper logging and statistical management. The fact that the police are logging checks in line with the guidelines of the Police Directorate itself, and that the statistics are being made public, suggests that the Workers’ Party could give legitimacy to police work — possibly giving the authorities the opportunity to rectify if it turns out to be an unfair practice by discovering that a proportion of ID checks can be claimed to be based on ethnic profiling. We have no research or statistics on this, but it should not be controversial that this debate is addressed, that it should be made aware of it, and that it is said that ID controls should be regulated, and also be sure that it is regulated and logged in line with the guidelines set up by the Directorate of Police itself. It's far from suspecting a skilled Norwegian police force. I will address the proposals on which the Workers' Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24773	The representative Martin Henriksen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24778	Preventing illegal residence in the country is an important task for the police, in particular in terms of security and prevention and prevention of crime. Control of the identity and residence of foreigners is also an important part of Norway’s international obligations, and it is important that we have mechanisms in place to ensure that these obligations can be met. As a result of Section 21 of the Foreign Affairs Act, the police may stop a person and require an identity when there is reason to believe that he is a foreign national, and the time, place and situation provide the basis for such control. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that when the police carry out such checks, it is desirable that the inspection be knowledge-driven and directed towards places where the police are aware, by experience or on the basis of tips, of the fact that persons are not legally present or work without the necessary authorisation. The proposers claim that there have been several incidents in Norway that give rise to suspicions that persons with a minority background are being controlled without sufficient grounds for doing so. In this context, it is important to stress that there is no reporting or research to support the fact that Norwegian police are characterised by extensive institutional or structural racism. I'm glad that Norway has one of the world's most educated police, and I have full confidence that they're doing this job in line with passed law. The State Council's letter of reply to the Committee also refers to the fact that the Police Directorate is planning to revise the existing guidelines for the implementation of foreign controls under the Foreign Affairs Act and that the need for clearer log management procedures with a view to achieving a consistent practice will be considered in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24791	We are committed to supporting the police, and I would like to say that everything I have seen from police practice in this area provides a basis for confidence and to believe that they take these questions very seriously. I am also pleased that a majority in the committee expresses respect for the demanding everyday life in which the police stand. For many years I have been following the work of Oslo police districts in vulnerable areas – when they perform at the center of my community or elsewhere in the city. I have been in a lot of situations where the police have worked with young people and met them where there have been events and other things, and I must say that I have never seen anything that has not been in line with how I think the police are acting in a good way in the situations. I have never seen anyone get away from me and say that the police have been racist or driven by ethnic profiling. They may not use those words, but you see what I mean. I've never experienced it. On the contrary, I've seen a police officer trying to justify and explain why they're there, and what they're doing. I have followed and studied with the police a course they have in the Oslo police force: a day course they have developed called a fair police force, and they are also working to get out to other police districts in cooperation with the Police Directorate. It is a one-day course that all operational crews, all preventers, etc. in the police district and where it is found that it is the police who should be the adult party in these situations, in the difficult situations they are in. They should not be frustrated, they should build good attitudes internally, not talk wrong about the people they work with, but at the same time they need to figure out how to manage laws and rules when, for example. young people do not want to talk to them, have decided to have a fuck the police attitude, or have a hostile attitude to the police. What the police themselves say then, is that they get their human vision challenged every day by working with it, because they face threats, they can be spit in the face, they even meet stone throws. In 2019, according to Avisa Oslo, there were 1,071 incidents with threats, violence, obstruction of police work and police harassment, on which the paper collected figures before Christmas. The police are in difficult situations when they meet pre-conceived attitudes – when you pull the racist card against the police and have pre-conceived attitudes to the police. They're so careful to build their attitudes and their human vision, but they don't get a chance if there's people spreading these "fuck the police" attitudes, that's gangster environments that spread this trend among young people. Then the police are not given a chance to establish a contact. They tell me that every time they go into good conversations, there are some environments that meet them in such a way that the conversations don't get started, because it is perceived as control and that the police are enemies. What the Oslo police have asked me to do is that we politicians and we who are social debaters must do everything we can to not reinforce the suspicion of the police in these environments, to build dialogue, to get the young people, the young people they are facing, and those who are being controlled, to understand that the police have a job to do on behalf of society, on behalf of the Bigton, on behalf of democracy. I believe that we in this Chamber must also come up with this when we discuss these questions. I have asked the police in Oslo what is the case, what the police officer in Oslo has said. Then I was told that she has not said that there is racism in Oslo police district, but that she has said that there have been complaints about racism, which she takes most seriously. There have also been questions about whether they say that it is a planned ethnic profiling. No, the Oslo police say there may be a bias in where the police operate because of housing in Oslo, the integration in Oslo, the differences between East and West, because of where they are currently in control, live, for example. as regards who may be a foreign national. There's a difference in the city, the way the city is built, which makes it a bias. But it's not ethnic profiling. This is about the police doing a job on behalf of democracy, on behalf of us, for which we must have respect, and we must not put that job in a bad light.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24812	The President would point out that 'fuck the police' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24817	No, but it was a quote, President. Those weren't my words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24822	Nevertheless, I recommend that a person try to use such expressions at least possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24828	I think we're going to take this discussion down a little bit and not base it on caricatures about what SV might think, about what is – I was saying – our intention to swear the police or claim that the police in Norway are racist, etc., as stated in the statement to Per-Willy Amundsen. I don't know if it's parliamentary to say, but it's just nonsense, President. It is not parliamentary, but I have to say it anyway. Jan Bøhler's personal experience is not very valuable either. There's a lot of work we do here at Stortinget that we can't prove that we have personal experience with. So we also have to rise a little bit above that. It's really not very relevant. This proposal is based on the fact that there have been a number of reports from individual communities, we have to say, that people have been unnecessarily checked and checked by the police. It has not been documented – that is quite correct – but reports have been made of it, as the previous police officer in Oslo also tells. After the major demonstrations this summer, concerns were expressed about the behaviour of individual police personnel in meeting minority communities, and then I will quote Prime Minister Erna Solberg, who said the following to Dagbladet on 9 June last year when she was asked if ethnic profiling is going on, which Jan Bøhler totally rejects, but the Prime Minister said: ‘Yes, it has happened and happened. I also have friends from other countries with a different skin colour, who live in Norway and have been stopped by the police and asked if they have a residence permit. Especially in youth. Adopted that is stopped because they have a nice bike», etc. The Prime Minister confirms what Bohemia believes he personally has no experience with, but it has to be. It is quite right that the police of course have the opportunity to check whether there are illegal immigrants in the country, so this control system is then provided for in the Foreign Affairs Act. SV does not want to remove this scheme – for all things – we just want to regulate it, so that we avoid some of the challenges we have around it. Of many, this control system is seen as a problem, especially in minority settings, and I have met – it is my personal experience, to Jan Bøhler – many young people who are still under control and who interpret it as discrimination. But my personal experiences and what I have heard are therefore not relevant in this. Norway has received international criticism for this. The UN Human Rights Council has written that it is a problem that Norway ‘is concentrated that section 21 of the Immigration Act’ – they are criticising Norway for promoting ethnic profiling. So I don't want to be devalued. We have a challenge in Norwegian police too. This does not mean, of course, that we have a structural racism problem in the Norwegian police, but we have a challenge that we should take seriously, in line with the representative Henriksen put in place. We want to regulate this in a simple way by making the police do what they are really required to do: they have to keep a proper log of this and statistics, and it has to be publicly available. In this way, the police, and the rest of us, will be able to contribute to a better control of the police. In addition to this, SV wants a receipt system that is such that if you are controlled by the police, you can only get a receipt on the app from the police that you have been checked, and when an hour or two afterwards a new policeman gets away and is going to check you, you can show it: Jammen, Mr./Mrs/Miss police, see here, I was checked an hour ago. Such a system, introduced in several other countries, could create a completely different level of trust in the police and could help improve the trust between the police and the minority communities. The rather general reason why we want to address this is that we are concerned that the minority communities in Norway have confidence in the police. We know that in many minority communities and in their families, one may come from countries where the police are seen as an enemy. It's a challenge that these environments don't have enough trust in the police, and we can get unwanted reactions, anger the police, which can also create a kind of increased crime. This is not an action to criticise the police, but to help build a bridge between the police and the minority communities and to build confidence that they will also be taken seriously. With this I submit SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24857	The representative Petter Eide has drawn up the proposals he referred to. The representative is quite right that 'customs' is not a parliamentary expression, so it is best not to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24864	Ethnic profiling is not a police method. Everyone is going to meet with respect and tolerance, and I'm assuming that it's going down on all discriminatory behaviors. The police contact with the audience must have a low threshold. This contact is a necessary part of police prevention, and anyone in contact with the police may have a legitimate wish not to be found in a register. Some of this contact may be followed up by a switch to a control situation. I understand that this transition can be perceived as burdensome. As regards identity checks under Section 21 of the Foreign Affairs Act, I would like to stress that preventing people from staying in the country illegally is important, not least in terms of the security of society and in order to prevent and prevent crime. The verification of the identity and residence of foreigners is also an important part of Norway’s obligations under the Schengen Agreement. These checks shall be logged. It follows from the police circular 2010/011. Such logging is mainly carried out in the border and territorial control system and registry of the police, GTK, but may also take place in other systems, depending on the control situation, which creates challenges in terms of search functions and statistical management. I assume that the requirements for logging under the Foreign Affairs Act will be followed up. I do not believe it is natural for the government to be instructed to follow up a circular in the police case, as the proposal states. However, I expect the department to grips with deviations that are identified. Although the intention is the best, I would also be reluctant to support the proposal that statistics under the Foreign Affairs Act be made publicly available and searchable. Since logging takes place in several systems, such a solution will require a review and compilation of several systems, and I do not think that will be a proper resource use.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24881	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24898	At the request of the Justice Committee, the speaking time of the debate will be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes, and the President will organise the debate as follows: Labour Party 25 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Centre Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Environment Party Green 5 minutes and Red 5 minutes. Moreover, within the allocated speaking time, six rows of replies will be given after contributions by members of the government. In addition, those who may subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24907	Thank you very much to the colleagues in the committee for your cooperation. This was a long setting. Norwegian police are probably among the most outlying police in the world. Our police have great confidence in the people. We are proud of the police, of what they do in everyday and crisis times. For the Labour Party, it is absolutely central that the police should still have a civil character and be based on the ten basic principles. The news of corruption we are dealing with today, takes note of the no situation, passes through parts of the reform of the neighbourhood police, looks at a changing picture of crime and shows a number of statistical overviews of the evolution of crime. As a case spokesman, I would also like to show that we have dealt with this matter very carefully. It sees one of both comments and suggestions. Romartala I-VI are proposals from the Committee which will receive a majority vote on Thursday. Several times I have said that, sometimes it is used in a slightly wrong context by the Right, but the Norwegian police are better in some areas today than before the police reform. We've got new methods in the police, we've got a national emergency centre in place, and we've got a new police helicopter in place. The sharp preparedness has rightly improved, and the professional environment has also been strengthened. The police themselves report that they work more knowledge-based and experience-based than before. But has the near-police reform brought the police closer? Has the near-police reform made them more visible? Did we get a scholarship for the investigation? Has the work on culture, leadership and restraints been given political priority? No, my work party. The Labour Party believes that the government of Erna Solberg has our chaotic influence in justice policy. The police were supposed to be reformed – it was widely endorsed. The serious report of the Gjørv Commission showed us why, and it was important for the Workers' Party to take that commission seriously. Therefore, we were concerned about strengthening cultural and leadership measures, clarifying clear national crisis management, and, not least, ensuring commitment targets and decisions on the key response resources in the Norwegian police, namely the local police, as the Gjørv Commission clearly said. Unfortunately, we have to measure the government for more of what they do and not always what they say. As you can see from the position of the Judicial Committee, there are many examples of the fact that the near-police reform adopted by the Stortinget is not the reform of the right government, with their eight government councils, seven from the Progress Party, implementing. Police capacity analysis shows that there are two more operational annual works in the patrol since 2015 – two! The Parliament's rather critical report shows that the government has not been right when they have claimed to have moved their efforts from the street to the data. The National Audit Office writes that the situation is serious and that the Ministry of Justice has not prioritised ICT crime. In the message, the government wants to consider allowing private transport. It's totally out of date for the Workers' Party. You can also see in the message that the government would like to reorganize its expression policy. We are very pleased that a joint Judicial Committee today states that the reorganisation of the UP is not going to matter. Thus, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV propose to stop all ongoing or proposed centralisation in the police districts for an evaluation of the near-police reform. It is quite right to do so, and it is a pity that the Progress Party will not support that proposal. Again, we ask for an overview of resource use, expenditure development and police assistance from the fire department and the ambulance in the period from 2016 to 2020. We know that the amount has increased, we know that the fire and rescue services must be more extensive than before. It is good that the proposal to reopen some police arrests is given a number. It makes sense to adjust parts of the structural reform. It is positive that one also sees that the quality of criminal proceedings has improved. Still, I'm worried about the quality. I, like many of my colleagues, meet a lot in my capacity as a big-time representative, and in recent years I have met too many girls and ladies who report negative and difficult meetings with the police, either in front of the high-ranking, in the uphill or in the follow-up – if one has reported to the police, for example. assault or warrant. We know that many of those who report these cases to the police are afraid. They sometimes have election alarms. The victim has a very rare reverse voice alarm. I mean, I can do better than this. We need to do more to improve the care of those who are victims of electoral and criminal acts. As we've been through before today, my experiences aren't necessarily what's the whole picture. So we need more research in this area. For this reason, we, together with the Centre Party and SV, propose that we follow up on the quality study of the State Attorney from 2020 – often with an analysis in the Stortingen on the situation, but also an evaluation study on how insults in criminal matters experience their meeting with police and prosecution powers. It is not like a complaint or suspicion against the police, but I get too many stories that it is not good enough. The Labour Party has close and good cooperation with the trust leaders in social organisations, as well as in the justice sector. When I ask Are Frinkholm, who is a leader in police law, what he would say if he were to take part in the debate today, he says that he believes that the integrated prosecution authority seems to be forgetting the message we are dealing with. I agree with that, and I'm perhaps even more in agreement with the fact that there is a lack in the budget for the current year. When I ask Terje Skararud, who is a leader in the NTL Police, he and they demand a stronger commitment to multidisciplinary competence and say, as the Labour Party, that no one is well-informed that police officers are in civilian positions. When I ask Sigve Bolstad, who is the leader of the Police Union, he says that there has been a lot of good in the Norwegian police, but it is decisive for the confidence in the near police reform that an actual sheep gets to a local police force that is anchored and present where people live, and that we are not there today. For the Labour Party, professional-political cooperation is important, and we have often asked in the debates here in Stortinget that the government should listen more to those who have shoes on. The Labour Party has high ambitions for the justice sector and the police of the future. We disagree with the government and the Minister of Justice in what the police report says, that the growth in the police budget seems to be over now. We can't say that now, because it won't be free to provide for a really stronger neighbourhood police force. If we are to have an appeal vow that prevents the victims of crime from standing in long, unworthy queues, it will cost more money – or to keep up with the developments that the Riksrevision also points out when it comes to online crime and digital tools. The Labour Party thinks it's time to make a general settlement with the lack of right-wing government's ability to carry out the near-police reform in line with what the Storting has agreed. I would like to remind you that it is not just the Labour Party, the Centre Party, or the SV, for the sake of the cause, as it says, that there are strong, critical and important voices also among those who are trusted, where the Joint League of Police has repeatedly said that they feel that they are being fooled. Several interim evaluation reports are highly critical for implementation, and a researcher has said – and I have used that quote many times – that if this reform had been carried out in a private enterprise, it would not have been the only one to be added again. We need a government that may adjust the course when necessary. Erna Solberg and the eight Justice Ministers have shown that they do not have the capacity to implement in line with agreements and decisions reached in Stortinget. The working party is often indebted to measure the situation. Then I just want to show that the criticism we make, along with the tinted rose, should be listened to. The budget, which has been delivered since the close police reform was adopted and to date, has been too high, along with a red tape and efficiency reform that has made the operation of police districts too tight. We need a government that shows that she is able to strengthen the local police in line with the Yurv Commission also said that she was the most important response resource. We need a real investigation lift and better local preparedness. I look forward to the debate and take up the proposals on which the Labour Party is all about and the proposals we have with the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24960	The representative, Mr Lagen Vågslid, has drawn up the proposals to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24965	The police briefing is a good and important opportunity to discuss all aspects of the Norwegian police force. After working in the Justice Committee, we have got a position that must be one of the most comprehensive things we have ever delivered. It could actually have been published as a separate book. I'm a little uncertain as to which genre that book would end up in, but at least it's certain that it has both high peaks and very deep valleys. At its very best, the attitude points to some challenges that we can all agree that the police have, and at our best, we find ourselves together, co-signs and solves problems that the police are facing, in a good way, in common. It's a long time to admit it, but the opposition also has constructive and good suggestions on how the police can do better, and we all share a desire that the police be as effective as possible. What we cannot agree on is how important and decisive the police reform has been. When we look at the setting that exists now, unfortunately, there is only one word that can sum up the left-hand impression, and that's black-painting. It's not just the reform that's being black-painted, but there's actually much of the police's operation and business that's being put in a very bad light. Sometimes I wonder what those who are employed in the building think about how we view their work, their working day. I think it's hard to recognize in such a one-sided and unhealthy criticism. I think there is no reform that has been so ugligent, so criticized and at the same time so incredibly important as the police reform. There have been war headlines. There's been a lot of rattling. It's stormed. There has been an accusation of breach of contract. There has been a lot of harelation and a new whistling, etc. Not least, there has been a nearly impressive systematic campaign over several years that has gone to tell people that now the police are gone, they are no longer present, they no longer move out to the same degree, they are no longer there to keep us safe. It's been an impressive systematic campaign. You're left with the impression that they've disappeared in some central office, that you no longer have the local connection. That's just not right. It has no connection to reality. Nor has it been a week without journalists calling and asking for a response to one criticism after another about the police reform. What strikes me is that every bit of criticism has had a short-term perspective. If there's something that doesn't work in the police right here and now, like the police reform, it's the fault. If the police move out a minute later than last year, the police reform is to blame. If trust in the police has grown but has grown a little less in the districts than in the cities, the police reform continues to be blamed. If the fire department has arrived first at the scene a few times, it is obvious that the police reform has failed. Is there any entry-level problems at the operating centre, technical challenges with interconnection, etc. - Yes, there you go, it's the police reform again. But what happens when we get results and feedback that the investigation starts much faster than before? It's quiet. What happens when we get feedback that the investigation is getting better, that you can solve crime to a much greater extent than before? It's kind of quiet. What happens when the standby works and goes on the rails? It's quiet. What happens when the operating centres suddenly start to work, and we see that the response time goes down and the quality of the response that the audience receives rises? It's pretty quiet, too. When stronger police districts provide the local police with extremely much better support and follow-up than they had before, that is still not a word. It is quite clear that not everything has gone on with the police reform. If that were the case, we would most likely have set a world record, or it would have been pure propaganda. The police have about 17 000 employees. They have 22 billion. kr in the budget. They have strong employee organisations that say clearly from. They have a critical media and searchlight on them all the time, and everyone in Norway has some strong opinions about how the police should act and what their expectations are. It is then clear that there will be trouble when we carry out a major reform. But that's right now, in those situations, we're faced with a big challenge. Then there are politicians who use the opportunity to inflate the contradictions, to exploit the situation, who live by that dissatisfaction, and then others who withdraw, try to discharge themselves, blame others. We picked another line. We chose to look for solutions. We chose to stand up for the reform. In every debate we set out. We tried to answer every reading article, defend the basics, and then adjust the course where it was necessary – safe control, calmness, patience and a basic belief that what we have designed, and what we have built, is actually going to stand and make the police better. When this day is over, there is one fact that remains, and that is that the police reform is over. In fact, the police reform has been trusted once again, and, once again, it has been joined in this Chamber. The number of districts is preserved. The number of police officers is preserved. The number of officers' offices is preserved. The number of operational centres is maintained. The commitment to rapid and good investigation is preserved. The requirement for better and larger professional environments is maintained. The demands we make for strong police management are preserved. The requirements for preparedness and alerting are maintained. I could still, but the summary is that the modern police we wanted, we've got, and it's preserved. The police that I want to characterize as a 1990s police force that many people dream of remain in the past. I think we give the police something as important as both reform and budget millions. It's that we give it rest, and I think the police need more than ever. Reform, budgetary resources and working order are our recipe, and it has brought benefits. Now the results start to come, and they're very strong. Arne Johannessen is a man who is going to be quoted a lot from this pulpit, and everyone in the hall knows him as a critical man. He has said that 2020 was “best ever” for the police locally, and the queue of other police officers coming on the track now is getting longer and longer. In the future, I have three wishes for the police. The first thing we have to do is kill the myth that the police are centralized. If we roll back to 2013 and look at how many have been transferred to the police, a rather different picture is drawn than what committee leader Lene Wagslid sketched from the pulpit instead, namely that no one would work in the department if the police were a private company. We have added almost 4,000 new members of staff to the police record since 2013, and no one should be fooled into believing that it would have been possible without the reform. But more importantly, the myth of centralization is wrong. It's not like these people work in an office in the center of Oslo. They don't work in the Police Directorate. They don't even work in Oslo. They work in the districts. They're out on patrol, but not just that. Maybe they're sitting in an office too, but they're not sitting and they're washing thumbs and moving paper. They're working to keep us safe, to do research, to do preventive work, to hunt organized criminals, to hunt robbers online. They're working to keep us safe. This comic book story that every good policeman or woman belongs behind the wheel of a car, we have to leave. A modern police force is so much more. The second thing I want is for us to have respect for the police and the police officers. In this room, it's very easy to jump on proposals for detailed regulation of the police, but let's all take a little check-up and ask us, does this perhaps belong at the police chief's place instead? The last thing I want is that we give the police stability and working order. Whether you were in favour of the reform or against the reform, I think it is time we put the debate on the police reform to death, put it behind us and agree that we should build the best possible police force, we must do so with the foundation we have laid, and look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e24999	We don't get away from the police reform when we discuss the police report. There have been several people who have already had posts about it, with quite – let's say – different considerations and descriptions of reality. I will allow myself to be a little moderate – neither on one side nor on the other side – and I believe that with the following: Everyone knows that there was a well-founded reform that the government started in its time. The results are many, and I have to agree with a lot of what the previous speaker said when he referred to results. The police reform was well-founded, and it was imperative. But then it is that in a reform period, when a reform is implemented, very few are adhering to it – for reform is equal to change, and change is equal to discomfort. There are many things that are thrown around, there are many that experience changes in their everyday lives, and when criticism is raised based on change, it's very easy to become opponents. It is even so easy to become opposed that even those who were parties to the agreement and who were involved in initiating the reform choose to escape when it becomes a bit tough and a little hard, as it happens when you carry out a reform. Then, of course, I'm going to the Workers' Party. But the reform is a fact, it was necessary, it was well-founded, and we are already seeing good results. Then there is no perfect reform. If you're looking for perfect reforms, I think you should limit yourself to China, to Cuba, to the old Soviet Union, or to North Korea. Perfect reforms are being carried out. But we have to learn from what's going on along the way, and part of the lesson that the Progress Party has drawn is that we have to deliver even more on an existing local police force. And yes, it's about more policemen behind the wheel, it's about more policemen in patrol cars, it's about visible police, it's about police close to people. It has been called for in several rounds, including in connection with this communication, and we are also promoting concrete proposals, with figures. In fact, we are so concrete that we are promoting proposals to strengthen the police operationally – i.e. increasing the number of patrols – with a minimum of 30 pst. by 1 January 2023. It is therefore only the Progress Party that supports that proposal – when it becomes concrete. We also take the consequences of the realities, because, on the part of the government, it seems – it says in the Communication – that now the growth in the police budget is over. Now you have to be stable. At the same time, we point to challenges that I think obviously require even more policemen, and that make it entirely illogical to reduce the educational capacity of the high school. This is why the Progress Party promotes proposals, together with the Centre Party – and, in fact, SV – to increase admission to the School of Police. The Labour Party is against this, and it's interesting. Unfortunately, that proposal does not have a majority, but it shows that you have to follow up. We need more policemen out there, and then we also need to train more policemen and have more ambitions than the government puts up. Then I am very happy that today we get a majority to reopen several arrests where the police are reduced to a transport business, and where in many cases – at least I have been told it – they let go to the step of bringing people in, simply because it will require so much resources transportable. We've made too many arrests. I think we're going to take that lesson, and then we're going to have to reopen a few more. I also think that recriminal challenges put particular pressure on us to ensure more operational personnel and a high level of presence, especially in vulnerable areas where this is a everyday life and a reality. It will also have a majority in favour of today's Progress Party, and I am pleased about that. The working party is voting for it, and it requires more staff, but they will not train more personnel. It's not quite right. We also get a majority to protect the identity of police officers, and I think that's very important. It's about taking the police seriously when you feel that in your private life you get discomfort because you have the job you have, and the position you're in. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, we have seen that many end up in the police, simply because it becomes so uncomfortable to sit in those jobs and take that responsibility. We will never have that situation in Norway — we will never have Swedish states in Norway. Then there are two things that the Progress Party is alone with the Center Party on. That's interesting enough. I think it's time to take seriously and take the consequences of what we say. When we want to have a more productive police force out there, more police close to people – the police that solve matters, like that. combat violence and abuse against children, something the police have become much, much more proficient at – then maybe we should spend a little more money on it and a little less money on those who move papers and do case studies and such incomprehensible things as: to propose the removal of the term ‘lensman’. In full seriousness, there are people in the Police Directorate who are working on this, trying to figure out what you should be called instead of a lieutenant. It's a public task that the Police Directorate is running. This is of course a little bit – let's say – comical, but it's real. Then you might have a little bit too much of that kind of thing, and you might be able to do something about it. That's why the Progress Party, together with the Centre Party, believes it's natural to put the Police Directorate down when we're done with the reform. We should also have confidence in the police districts and the police officers. I think it is perfectly possible to lead Norwegian police districts, lead the special agencies, from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It actually went on earlier, and then we had far more police officers and laymen. It can be done very well. We can also get rid of a lot of communication staff in the same sling. There are many people who are just employed to tell us what things are, instead of doing things. Unfortunately, in several areas there are many proposals that the Progress Party is promoting, where we stand all alone. We believe it is time to separate the police and prosecution authorities. One is in the discussion phase of that, but I believe that the discussion phase should be completed. We know so much about this that it should be perfectly possible to implement a distinction. We are also alone in stressing the importance of facilitating the police's necessary respect for the exercise of their authority. Me and the Progress Party believe that a large part of the explanation of what we see of the emergence of juvenile and recriminal crime is that respect for the police is not what it once was. It is about the fact that in many ways the police are very limited in what power they can use and to what extent they can use them. We want to give the police more power. The police must have respect in the street, otherwise it won't work. But this is a proposal for the Progress Party alone. And again, once again, we are alone in wanting to arm the Norwegian police. We are about the last country in the world, with the exception of Iceland, which has no armed police force. We also agree that it is good that we get a weapons register in the sea. There's a majority in the Biggest going in for today. I am also very pleased – although it may surprise a couple – that we are maintaining the emergency police force in the shape it has today. Now is by no means the time to implement the major changes to the agencies. The law enforcement is an important resource, and there are some misunderstandings about what their task is, and how important they are in very many situations. In the last few days there has been a discussion, a debate, on which I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the Progress Party. It is about the fact that the police are supposed to have carried out 2,800 missions for or in relation to child protection in one year. These are quite surprising numbers, and it should of course be interesting to know the background of those numbers -- what they contain, what they actually entail, what kind of mission it is. What I don't like is that the Children's Ombudsman and others, through almost anecdotal evidence, are trying to present it as if the police are using too much power in these situations where they are involved in child protection. You don't have any evidence to claim that. That's why I would strongly distance myself from it if you think it's a quick fix solution in a way to limit even more the police's ability to use the means they need, given the situation. I do not think that is a good solution, and I would strongly warn the Minister of Justice against that. But it would be wise for the Minister of Justice to contribute to that knowledge and information. I think it's best if the Minister of Justice prepares for himself. In principle, we do not want to support the proposal made by the Labour Party, but if we are forced to do so, we will do so. But then it's to get that knowledge and that information, and not to help – I kept saying – communicate that the police are doing something wrong in this context. In that case, you must first have that knowledge, not act backwards by now imposing further restrictions on the police. There is no basis for that, and I really do not hope that the Minister of Justice or the majority of the population wants to do so – but we have to have the knowledge. In terms of these 2,800 missions: based on anecdotal knowledge, like everyone else who has discussed this, I think it might be about a municipal child protection that fails in too many areas. This is an important message that I believe in the main, although we are discussing many things, gives us the image of a police that is unusually good, of which we are all proud, and that delivers in very many areas. Then there are some challenges to which we, as politicians, must contribute to raising and delivering better solutions. But in general and overall – and I think everyone here agrees – we are proud of the Norwegian police. And although we are implementing a major police reform, I also hope that the necessary adjustments can be made along the way to the very points pointed out by the Progress Party, because that, I believe, will help to make a good reform even better. I would like to address those proposals of which the Progress Party is part, and then I would just like to end by saying that we were waiting in excitement for the government's proposal to change the word 'lensman' to 'police leader'. I would like to see it as a proposal that reaches the Stortinget, because it may not be among the most thoughtful proposals we have seen in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25037	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25042	Our own noticing stories could help to characterize the history as well. We're fully aware of that. The Right Party and the Progress Party, which was the government party behind the so-called near-police reform, have such a strong interest in decorating the results. The problem is that they're still showing it as if we in the Center Party were painting the situation in the police after the reform. The representative Frölich said that much of the operation and the police's business is being blackmailed. What must be hard for the Right and the Progress Party is that in the Central Party we are still getting new and large supplies of raw materials for this so-called black poll from people and the environment who have qualified opinions and facts about the police reform and the status of the police case. Only the name of the reform is critical. The near-police reform – such a name for such a centralizing reform is the most glaring example in political contexts of making a very small bride before the wedding. We in the Center Party commend all the policemen who make a phenomenal effort on the terms they have. There is no black measurement of the state to point to what the government has not produced from the results. And we don't have to exaggerate, we can easily refer to it, for example. The National Audit Office says that there is a serious lack of police work against cybercrime. From now on, this winter’s quote: ‘The police’s ability to detect and clarify data crime has accumulated considerable weaknesses.’ The government was going to get better preparedness in our long country by releasing resources from all these unnecessary relief agencies and police stations around. Such offices were referred to as empty shells, without any particular function, and over 120 were put down in the name of progress. This grip would allow for stronger and better opening times in the remaining offices, those that were not laid down. Not least, there would be much more police on wheels. Police investigation of the police's capacity in the field of police operations shows that developments in the number of annual works prior to patrol operations have been on two additional annual works, not even two additional patrols, in this country during the reform period from 2015 to 2019. Five researchers from among others OsloMet, University of Oslo and Police College have called police policy the government ‘principleless and contradictory’. Then it's no longer just a question of black measurement from the Center Party's side – or? When the judicial spokesman in Right, Peter Frølich, said to NTB last week that the position of the Justice Committee on the police report is a hallmark of police reform, it was about very creative political accounting. For the government, it is responsible that more than 120 officers' offices were laid down without more than two additional year's work being put in place for the patrols. About 350 police posts were centralised away from these places. We know that many of the rest of the county offices have been so much less staffed that some of them can actually be counted as decommissioned in practice. The government says that crime has gone from street to data, but it can't even show a lot of results before the suppression of data crime, as I showed by the Riksrevision instead, and they seem to forget that in much of the country we don't have streets, we have roads. The government would have benefited from a multi-field reality orientation. Fishing crime and organised crime are examples of law offences that are not a high priority of today’s government but represent significant problems in different districts. In addition to centralisation disease to the government and the majority of the population, we have bureaucracy disease, which is probably not intended, but which has come as a sad side effect of massive structural changes. This has been an enormous increase in the number of members of the central police bureaucracies and the use of consultants. Communication advisors, too, seem to be becoming increasingly necessary, as criticism of police reform has begun to emerge from more than the Centre Party. The Centre Party has its own alternatives to centralisation and bureaucracy, and it is a real strengthening of the remaining Länsmann offices and police stations and the reintroduction of city rentals at all offices. We will also set up several such offices in towns and cities, including police posts where appropriate. We have in the long term the goal of getting at least two policemen per thousand inhabitants in place in each police district, because we believe that today's target of two per thousand in the whole country does not seem to be enough police in all parts of the country. We also want to strengthen police lawyers. Furthermore, we want to give room for more local priorities and assessments in the police districts, because our country is so often. We want to maintain the expression police, the UP, as a separate agency. We've been busy for a long time and we're really excited that the committee was in agreement on that. I don't think a should underestimate the power of the selector and the sense measurements for the moment. Why in all the world are the Progress Party and the Right now against the structural changes they were before to work out? Well, that's because unnecessary structural changes and centralization are far more difficult to implement when the Center Party has the select wind in the sails. The voters don't welcome us now because we're blacking out, but because we have ground contact and we share concerns and facts that the government should also acknowledge. I understand that it is tempting for the government to present us as a rear-rower, but it is not backward to work for more local police, who can both work well for prevention and make important preparedness. The reality of people in the Right is different than ours. The representative Frølich said that what we're saying doesn't have a connection to reality. I notice that Right now loves to quote Arne Johannessen, who is the leader of the Sogn and Fjordane geographical unit. He's right for this reform and cheers, and then it's fun to quote him. I notice that they don't quote the many, many, many policemen around the country who have critical objections. That's why I'm leaving some of the few seats in the Great Council's pulpit because, if I can count it, I'm quoting some from four different police districts: Lensmann Egil Netland, at Sirdal Lensmann's office in the South-West police district, stated in the Official Journal of the European Union on 26 January: «For Sirdal and the small offices, we must realize that it has not improved. There has been a strong reduction and the readiness for those living in the countryside has been significantly weakened In recent years, I have been largely alone as a police officer. [[...]] [[...]] People, and especially the elderly, are not safe when it gets like it is now.’ The head of the Central Troms geographical unit, Andreas Nilsen, said to the Police Forum in October: «The plans were that we would have a growth of 10 years from 2017 to 2021. The growth that has occurred in the period has mainly ended in the police house in Tromsø. It says something about how the priorities have been in the years that have gone by, and it's going to get worse if you look at what you're going to think about in the future." Lensmann Svein Engen in East Police District with 42 years of experience from the police saying to the Romanesque magazine: ‘The policy reform has helped me look forward to a retirement life. I feel like we've lost contact with the people and local knowledge. I've always believed that talking to people helps. With the so-called near-police reform, the distance has become too great.’ Head of Police Station in Trondheim and leader of GDE Mid-Trundelag, Arve Nordtvedt, spoke to the Police Forum in September: «Although the police have given many jobs in recent years, we see that many of the jobs have gone to tasks other than primary ones. In our GDE we have not strengthened the crew on patrol or investigation, and there is no particular difference between the number of employees there today, than it was in 2017 or 2010.’ These voices are not the Right refers to. That's why I'm taking the time to quote these people. Our point in the Center Party is that we have to listen to the many voices that dare to criticise, and not just those that cheer, because it is infinitely much easier to cheer than to criticise, especially in a reform period, when options are at stake and it is hard to know what is happening to your work. I would like to end by saying that one of the proposals we in the Central Party are that police officers no longer have to set goals, which means that they know they can be out after six years, and in particular do not risk being reinstated if they have been critical. We want them not to be committed to years, but to be committed, as was the case before, and to provide room for these strong voices that we also need from police officers. I think that some of the reasons we've seen so little criticism from that point of view are precisely the set of goals. I'd like to address the suggestions that the Center Party is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25105	The representative Jenny Klinge then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25110	When Stortinget now deals with this comprehensive police report, the treatment may show that the Stortinget has great confidence in the police. The communication covers a number of issues, many comments have come in, many proposals, but despite the fact that there is a minority government, very few proposals are getting a majority. So the story has confidence in the police – in line with the people, it can look like when you read this – and that's really nice. The comments are mainly about adding more resources to the police, the various parties are making proposals for reorganising the police to give priority to specific areas, and the opposition has, of course, been concerned with preserving the decentralised structure, which we believe is very important. I also believe that the comments bear the mark of caution in criticising the police. There are some issues with the police that we discussed in the previous case, and that it had been possible to raise, but that are not clear. So it's not like the Stortinget sees the police properly in the cards when you read this note. So I think that both the Minister of Justice and the police can be quite calm after this treatment. There is very little follow-up to the police and the Minister of Justice after this deliberation. So I choose to talk about a little bit different things than what is in this message. SV's proposals and comments get to live their own lives in the text itself. We have also joined forces with the Workers' Party and the Center Party behind a lot of those things. Then, after we gave this position, two-three relationships have emerged in the case of Norwegian police. They would have been covered in this setting if they had come a little earlier, or if we had given it up, for example. today. One is, as Per-Willy Amundsen said, the detection of police work in support of child protection. I'll be right back. The other matter is about the claw with the police station structure in Oslo and it announced the rematch that the police want to take on the Storting decision from 1 December. The third relationship is about the way the police behaved when it came to throwing out a family of young children on the Tøen last weekend. The last two things I'm going to do in the next article, I'm going to spend a little time on the child protection issue. It is therefore true that Stavanger Aftenblad, through his own studies, made a national survey showing that in one year the police have been brought in for assistance from child protection 2 800 times – 2,800 times in one year: a large amount of police contributions to child protection, frequent use of uniformed police, use of handcuffs against minors and use of saliva masks against minors. We get to know Ida, for example, who has been exposed to 50 police missions in a year and a half. She's been put into cuffs, it's been used "bodycuff" and pepper spray. Ten-year-old Alex was laid on the floor by the police in a child-rescue office, was put on handcuffs and carried into a cell car by several uniformed police officers. What we're reading about here is shocking relationships -- very shocking relationships. I'm not going to criticize the police, because we're going to deal with those who are responsible for the police, and it's the political leadership that allows us to actually have such a relationship. What Stavanger Aftenblad also shows is that there is no overall overview in the police that shows how often this is done. Then there is a relationship with me that concerns me, because several of us have asked the Minister of Justice written questions about this matter. I just have to say that the answers we get back are mechanical, dry and bureaucratic. It's like there's no child behind the procedures and systems. But there are children, the most vulnerable children, and we can't get out of the Ministry of Justice a single concern about the way these children are treated. I'll end by just saying that this case is going to get a follow-up in Stortinget. A separate proposal is made to this effect, where the aim is to make these matters clearer and to make police procedures much clearer on the agenda – and perhaps get regulated the way the police use power, and what coercive measures we should allow the police to use in such cases. With that, I put forward the suggestions that SV alone is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25139	The representative Petter Eide then mentioned the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25144	The police communication that is being discussed today gives a good picture of the police reform that has been carried out in recent years. Many have been critical of the conversion of the police, and this is inappropriate especially in the Central Party. Now that major changes have been made to the police, there are fewer who share this reality description of the police. As the representative of Klinge, I would also like to quote different votes. One is from NRK Westland 21 January, and then, like others, I quote the chief of police in Sogn and Fjordane, chief of police Arne Johannessen, who says: ‘The truth is that we have left behind perhaps the best year in history when it comes to police development. We've got new resources and we're getting very good results." I would also like to make a statement in Helgelandsblad in February 2021, where Länsmann Tom Giertsen in the Outer Helgeland County of Lensmann states that he is satisfied with many aspects of the police reform. The article in Helgelands Blad says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The police reform has worked positively on several points, including through the establishment of police contact, which has contributed to a greater presence in the municipalities. [[...]] The capacity has also increased. This has led to more knowledge-based — and thus better — police work and intelligence, says the report. According to Giertsen, the district has reached full crew, and the target of two policemen per 1000 inhabitants has been achieved.’ Police figures show that crime has changed dramatically in recent years. Traditional profit crime has fallen by 40 pst, while sexual assault has gone up by 160 pst. In addition, crime is becoming more complex and cross-border. The Internet is a new and different area for crime and investigation. It allows crimes such as child abuse, ID theft, financial crime, illegal organisation and hate crime to a very different extent from what we have seen in the past. This reality is a crucial reason for the police reform adopted in 2016. Since 2013, more than 2,800 people have been employed in the Police and Len’s Senate. More than 1,650 of these jobs are purely police posts allocated to police districts as needed and crime prevention. In 2020, the target of two police officers per 1000 inhabitants was reached for the first time. As crime became more complicated and shifts to the Internet, the aim is to employ several other police professionals, such as the police. IT technicians and economists. For me, these facts show that modernising and reforming the Norwegian police force was most necessary in order to be able to meet this reality. From the police briefing we can see, in areas by area, that although – as many have pointed out – there is still a lot to do, the reform was nevertheless, and the start of it, necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25165	This police message we are discussing today sets out the status of the reform of this government that may have the most misleading name, the so-called near-police reform. While the government boasts of achieving a minimum target for the number of police per capita by trickling with the numbers, the reality is that this reform has taken the police further away from people, both in the districts and in the big cities. And this policy is to continue with the government. Police offices shall cease voluntarily only after having been drained for years. Police training is weakening, and centralisation is draining the police for local knowledge, competence and resources. Red fears American states if these developments continue. It's about trust, and it's about how the central link overrides local knowledge and competence of the police people who know. It is about preventing and building trust among people being replaced with stricter penalties, more censuses and so-called effectiveness – all of this while private security actors are taking over more and more of the police’s tasks. The gradual closure of the police where people live, combined with an excessive focus on so-called efficiency and transfer of resources to key functions, has led to an increasing degree of privatisation of the police’s core tasks. The police on the floor have been warning about this development for years. In a 2019 research survey, three out of four policemen say that resource shortages go beyond problem solving. Nearly two thirds of the police go home with a bad feeling about not having a job as good as they want. A clear majority sees how the weight industry is taking over police duties. With this big message, it is not only snow privatisation, but it is also stated that the private should be allowed to transport property prisoners. Why the government thinks it's a good idea, they haven't even taken the trouble of putting in a good reason for. Maybe that's because this government, no matter what the question is, will answer privatisation. Red thinks it is fundamentally problematic that private people should do the police's job. We can't risk privatising the trust between the police and the population. That's precisely because we can end up with states like the ones we see in the United States. But fortunately, we're not like the United States – so far. People in Norway trust the local police and want to keep them where they are, as we've seen it when it's been turned around decommissioned police stations at Manglerud and at Holmlia. It's a big mistake to put down the local police with people who know the locals. With large units, it's a coincidence which policemen leave, and it makes for worse relations. Today, people who look like me, my neighbors and friends, are exposed to ethnic profiling. At the same time, when the government parties today vote down proposals that could have helped to end this practice, they add to the further weakening of police confidence among the majority of people. This country needs a break from the failed police reform of the government. It is time to let the public's declaration of trust to local police stations around the country be translated into a policy that ensures a current police force of civil character that knows and can play on teams with the population. The alternative is seen in its full effect in today's United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25182	When the government joined in 2013, the police were in a difficult situation. The Yard Commission had detected failures and deficiencies in police preparedness and crisis management capabilities. We heard stories about resources that didn't find each other. The police analysis revealed major differences in the way police were organised, the quality and effectiveness of their tasks, and the way each police district organised the service. Everyone agreed that something had to be done. We grabbed this in two ways. We strengthened preparedness, and we carried out a comprehensive reform for the police. The reform was widely endorsed when it was dealt with in Stortinget in 2015. The changes were necessary, and much improved. The reform has provided better quality and more consistent services. We've never had more police officers in the whole country before, and the police are now better equipped to fight serious crime. Overall, the police provide better services now than before the reform, but the police must continue to adapt as society develops. We must have a police force with capacity and competence adapted both to today's and tomorrow's crime and to the security and preparedness situation. In the future, the police will need different skills to solve these problems. The last year has shown us how important it is for society to function in a time of crisis. The police have played a central role under the pandemic. They make a great effort for the community, and they do it well. The built-in study confirms this. People have confidence in the police, and trust has increased through the crisis. Preparedness is strengthened. We have put in place emergency services and new police helicopters and strengthened the preparedness team, and we give response personnel throughout the country more training. Preparedness in Norway has also been strengthened by better cooperation between emergency seats. We saw an example of that in New Year's Weekend. The Gerdrum breed showed how the resources were located. Police, fire services, health services, municipalities, civil defence and volunteers showed the best in the cooperative model. We now have 3,600 more police officers than in 2013. By 2021, 400 new permanent posts will allow us to pass the target of two per thousand. The positions shall, when the pandemic is over, strengthen the geographical holdings. Although much has been achieved, work must continue — in the criminal field and in the fight against recriminalism and the prevention of violence in close relations. Violence and child abuse should remain a priority area for police. More police work needs to be digitised in the future. The audience expects, and deserves, to be able to interact digitally with the police much more in the time to come. The legislation must be continuously modernised, for example: when storing IP addresses. New security and crime challenges need to be met in new ways. As crime continues to move to the Internet, the police need to increase and further develop their ICT skills and make use of new technological opportunities. For many years, the government has made a strong commitment to the police. The police coverage has increased considerably, the police budget is record high, and so is the number of employees. The police are well equipped to meet the future. Finally, also in the light of Amundsen's visit, I would like to comment briefly on some of the comments that have been made in Stavanger Aftenblad in the last few days relating to police assistance to child protection. I am recording that someone has thought that I have provided incorrect information to the Stortinget relating to statistics on this assistance. Of course, that wasn't meant to be. The meaning was to respond to the number of tasks related to the use of power against children. We don't have that kind of statistics. Therefore, when Stavanger Aftenblad claims that there are 2,800 child assistance missions per year, that is not correct. These are many kinds of assistance. It's child protection asking for help. There may be assistance to assist child-restraint workers, there may be assistance related to the search for children who are not where they should be, and there may be assistance to disabled children. It's interesting to know more about this, but we have to do this first and foremost by asking child protection why you're asking for assistance and what kind of assistance you're asking for. I am interested in that, and I would like to discuss that with the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. So it's interesting to know how the police handle children and young people. That work is already under way by the Police Directorate. I think that's very important and very good. In conclusion, the announcement of the rape of the police is important. It is strongly in demand and has therefore been given high priority in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. It was presented on 23 June last year, and I am very happy that we now have the opportunity to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25221	The Labour Party believes that the government has failed in the main intention of implementing the near-police reform. I've been a member of the Justice Committee under eight Justice Ministers, and I've asked the same question to all eight that I'm about to ask. My question is, how does it work, when one has a goal of strengthening the local police, and one has decided in Stortinget that all the remaining places of service should be strengthened with crew, that today we are in a situation where this is not the case? About all the representatives of the Right are busy talking about not having a 1990s police force, and talking almost as if one has left the whole main intention of the near-police reform. So the question is, is it that one has left the main intention, or is it such that it was never really the intention, at first, to really strengthen the close police and the most important response resource, as the Gjørv Commission so clearly underlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25226	It was intended to strengthen the police at all stages – both in readiness, in crisis management, in culture, in the organisation of a clearer police force, in strengthening the community services and in strengthening the provision of the population. I believe we have. But we're very different about this. While the Workers' Party counts employees in a local office, I count: What units do we have – analysis, investigation, joint criminal action – what kind of organisation do we have? How do the organization agencies operate? I think everyone remembers an operating centre that collapsed, which consisted of a person and a yellow note. So we can't have it like that. That's why the police are strengthened at all stages. Where we're going to further strengthen the police now, is in the geographical units. That is what the 400 police posts are supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25231	Does it now mean to me that the decision to strengthen all remaining service locations does not apply? That's what I hear when I ask -- strengthening the crew locally, as the Stortinget has agreed, and as a saying in the near-police reform is a goal, has an abandoned one. Can I get the Council of State to confirm that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25236	No, no, no. So when you call for a police patrol that's out there and comes, you call an operating center that's strengthened. The Community units assisting the patrol are strengthened. The patrol is strengthened, more specialised, and there is more investigation on the ground. All units of the police are strengthened. So it's not possible to count employees in an office. You don't work in a vacuum. It is not the case that the common units are, as it were, established for their own part. They are established to detect and prevent crime. There are strong operating centres, and we have prevention units and network patrols. We work in a completely different way than we did in 2013. All parts of the police are strengthened, but then we need to further strengthen the geographical units with the 400 posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25241	Thank you for the review of the police organization card. That's not what I asked for. I noticed that I did not receive a response from this Council of State to what I asked for. The Labour Party has also for a long time been concerned about the commitment to the crime of working life. There we think the government's efforts are too weak. The straw government often answers when we challenge them on this, is that they have the a-krim center. A short time ago, it was found that the government has not ensured that the police's efforts for the a-crime centre have been settled and clarified in the legislation. The President of the Ecocom said to the VG on 7 February that the police could have broken the law, and the Minister of Justice told her to review it. My question to the Minister of Justice is: When did the Minister of Justice get to know these missing homes for the a-crime centres, and will the Minister of Justice clean up this, while at the same time making sure that the obligations between the authorities, as one has done in Sweden, are lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25248	First, I have to say that I completely disagree with the representative's description of our efforts in this area. I don't think any government has ever been able to say that there has been so much bet, with meetings between everyone involved, with the establishment of the a-crime centre, and with strategies that have been renewed every two years during this government – now last summer. A-crime cooperation has evolved, and it is such that the leader of Ecocrim has said that there may be challenges, not linked to the police’s ability to move out with other agencies – that is something to which you have the authority – but who should, for example, be involved. stop work? The Labour Inspectorate has the opportunity to do this, so it does not have to be done by the police. There's been an investigation. It's going through the Police Directorate. I think it's important that they do, and if they need the other homes, they'll get it. With regard to the sharing of information, a proposal to the Stortinget on a basis under the Administrative Act to share information is now being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25260	I would like to ask the Council of State for the follow-up to the decision in Stortinget before Christmas on the process of merging police stations in Oslo and the presence of police in the community. I am aware that it is the Police Directorate and the Oslo Police District, etc. – probably in consultation with the Ministry – which takes the final decision, but once the Stortinget has taken such a decision, it is a problem that this week has been signalled by the continuation of the process of merging into one station. This is about Manglerud and Stovner police stations. I am concerned that there should not be an unnecessary conflict between the police in Oslo and the people in these neighbourhoods, who are concerned about the proximity of the police. I understand the police's need to gather their specialties, but I would like to ask the Council of State: what has been done since the last time to try to find a solution that can more meet both parties, to get out of the conflict that is now lying there?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25267	I don't know about any conflict, but I know the decision of Storting, which I strongly warned against. But as I said in Stortinget, it is my job to inform the police about the Stortinget decision, and we have done so. Then I see that the Oslo police have done what the Stortinget asked, namely to carry out an independent impact assessment, and that is the analysis I perceive that the Oslo police are now discussing with the City Council and the city council. Besides that, I'm not up-to-date with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25272	Thanks for the answer. I have another question that concerns the situation of the police in Oslo. That is what the representative Frülich said in his statement that the police are now much stronger than before in resolving crime. Last week, the figures for reported crime in Oslo came from the Oslo police district. It appears that in 2020, the percentage of clearance in the Oslo police district was 35,5 p.m. There was a decrease of 3.4 pst. in relation to 2019. The last figures we have for the national percentage are 50.9 pst. – they have been picked up from 2019, which is probably not yet 2020 figures. So there's a difference over 15 pst. in percentages of information between Oslo and the national average. Of course, there is concern in Oslo when it comes down to a third of the reported crime being solved, and many who are victims or exposed to it are concerned about what happens when their cases are not resolved. Will the State Council commit measures and processes to the police in Oslo to increase the percentage of clearance?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25279	I am very concerned about both the percentage of information and the time involved. It's important. So we don't know the numbers nationally for 2020, we get March 15th, when we get the police's annual report. What we know is that a lot of cases have increased a lot. Sexual abuse against children has increased a lot in recent years. We know that things get harder, they get more complex, and they require more resources. We also know that we're using about 30 pst. of the resources of the 3 pst. the most serious cases. I think that's the right priority. But of course we have to go through this when we get the numbers, and then I think you have to be prepared that by 2020 we had a very special year, a coronary year, and that there will also be an impact in these numbers. But of course I'll go through them carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25284	First, I just want to commend the Minister of Justice. She has been fantastically strong in the difficult time we are in, and I fully understand that there are different things – both locally and so on. – for which it is impossible to keep a complete overview. I have to follow up on what Jan Bøhler brought up. We agreed with Stortinget on 1 December that Manglerud police station should not be closed, that it should not be merged into a new police station. Nevertheless, the Oslo Police Department has now submitted an application to the Ministry of Justice for precisely that, which is at that time contrary to the Stortinge decision. State Secretary Sethem says to the evening post on Friday that the application is pending. In other words, he keeps it open about the Oslo police getting what they want. So there is a real chance that the Ministry of Justice will approve an application that is contrary to the Storting decision. My specific question is: can the Minister of Justice now confirm that she will reject the application from the Oslo Police District?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25293	With all due respect for the fact that I have not made the decision from Stortinget in front of me, I believe that it is not correctly reproduced by the representative. I believe that what the Stortinget requested was that an independent impact assessment be carried out before a decision is taken. That analysis is – as I see it – Oslo Police have been carried out, and it is at the heart of their desire to merge. Then I haven't got a case on my table, but I get it for sure, and I have to deal with it according to the Storting decision. But I have to take a closer look at this, because I think the wording was a little bit different.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25298	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25303	The Labour Party has high ambitions for the justice sector and the police. We do not agree with the government, which writes that the growth of the budgets is now halting. It does not agree with the need for a real close-up police force, for the fight against violence in close relations, or for the need to remove the queue. The chairperson of the Labour Party said in his statement that a settlement with the inability of the right-wing government to implement was necessary. Right fractional leaders replied that it is difficult to carry out a perfect reform. Yes, it is probably difficult to implement any reform when you have given responsibility to eight different government councils and Erna Solberg has chosen to give most of that job to the Progress Party. Somewhere you can see the lack of implementation is what I want to use most of my post on – the effort against labour-life crime. The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a major effort in a safe and fair working life. The National Audit Office has criticised the government for a weak and little deterrent effort to combat labour crime and states that the government needs to do more to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate's checks and police investigations into these kinds of cases. The most crucial thing in the fight against criminal gangs and organised crime is that the police are running a stable and long-lasting effort over many years. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that reinforced efforts in police districts are needed through increased capacity. We want to make the a-krim centres stronger and more operational, provide the basis for better cooperation between the departments and provide them with increased resources and instruments. Therefore, we are concerned that we have for some time returned so that Ecokrim has investigated the legal basis the police have had in the a-crime cooperation, and that Ecokrim goes far into concluding that the police are not yet allowed to participate in the workplace. It's serious. It does not help to establish a-crime centres if the establishments do not have the necessary prerequisites for effective cooperation. The A-crime centres have been the straws of the government when we challenge them for the lack of commitment to the crime of working life, but when the government has not even taken care to clear up doubts about the police's homes, the lack of action shows. LO says that their members in the field report that the police are no longer on oversight, as they have been accustomed to. They report that the police can no longer be involved in operational work in the workplace. Then the consequences are great because the police are unable to act on possible offences on the regulatory basis of other agencies, as they have done up to now. It is quite incredible that the government has not ensured that the police's efforts at the a-crime centres have been justified, clarified in the legislation. After seven and a half years and eight justice ministers, the government has failed to put in place legislation to ensure that information can be shared between the police and the other law enforcement agencies. It does not help with a-krim centres if they are not allowed to cooperate, and this needs to be corrected. Finally, I would like to raise a matter I am pleased that there is agreement on here in the Chamber. Every year, when the police have provided their murder statistics, 77 victims have been missing in the survey for the last ten years. This concerns the 8 people in the government quarter and the 69 people in the Utiya who were killed during the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011. This has been referred to only in a footnote in the police list of killings. When a statistics on the number of killings is compiled in Norway, but omitting the biggest killing incident in the last ten years, the picture becomes misleading as to what has actually happened in Norway. Then the road is also short for the statistics to be abused. Therefore, I am pleased that the Stortinget agrees to correct the fact that the official statistics in Norway have omitted 77 killings in the last ten years, and that Kripos says that the list of killings is constantly under development. It's good that Kripos is responsive to recording, and that the list of killings can be discussed. And it's nice that we get a more accurate picture through the fact that the Storting now agrees to make sure that all killings committed in Norway are listed in the main general statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25328	Since the accession of this government, there has been a strengthening of the police and ready-to-use has been a main priority. After the tragedy of July 22, 2011, the Gjørv Commission described a police force that was too rusty, organized and run. The police analysis drew a similar picture. The aim of the reform is a police force with increased preparedness, enhanced operational capability and improved internal cooperation. For the government, two measures have been central to the development of Norwegian police: we have strengthened the staffing with over 3000 more staff in the department. We have improved quality through a police reform that ensures a more modern police adapted to the time we live in. There are still things that can and should be better in the Norwegian police, but on the way to this, we must rejoice over everything that has become better. In its report, the Directorate for Administration and Financial Management writes: ‘The Operational Centres have become more professional, police contacts and police councils interact well with the municipalities and police patrols in new ways through on-site police work.’ ‘Joint scaffolding contributes to better investigation in the initial phase and is better reported in 2019 than in the past.’ The Riksadvokat wrote in 2019: ‘There can be no doubt that the quality of criminal proceedings is today higher and progressively more uniform than in the past.’ I haven't met a single police officer or an employee of the police who wants to go back to the old structure and the way to work. They all say that the direction is right, and that the reform work must continue. Despite major changes in the sector, new surveys show that people feel safe and have confidence in the police. Today, we have a police force that is far better able to deal with today's and future crime than we had before the reform. We've got similar services with better quality across the country. The police are now complying with national response time requirements for all three agglomeration categories over a period of four months. The police respond to nearly 98 pst. of all calls of 112 within 20 seconds. And the police have top positions on Ipsos’ annual reputational survey. It would almost not believe when one listens to all the criticism from the opposition. To maintain the confidence and security of the population, the police must be able to deal with various forms of crime – from terrorism and violence in the physical space to abuse and fraud in the digital space. When crime changes, it requires a different organisation of police work, closer interaction between different resources in the police, locally, in the district and nationally. This was requested by the professionals in 2011, and we have now delivered it. I am pleased that no major changes are being adopted in the Storting. The reform, which has been discussed by many, has produced good results and must continue. Strangely enough, the Centre Party and the Labour Party do not propose any major changes – something you would believe after years of complaining about everything they think is wrong in the Norwegian police. Both the Central Party and the Labour Party use quite a lot of words, but when it comes to the content of the reform, they get strong support here in the Stortinget. That's good, and it gives the police work to do their important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25357	I note that there is quite a ghastly criticism from many teams against the situation in the police after this reform. People experience a more absent police in their communities. They feel that they have lost contact with the police in their communities. And I'm recording that the Riksrevision isn't very impressed with some of the things they've seen. After all, these experiences were not highlighted by the government when the near-police reform was presented, nor were these experiences promised by the government when the near-police reform was adopted. We see quite clearly that the government has not followed up what was promised, and we have to tell you about that. We must say clearly that this reform did not come as promised by the government. It's a lost opportunity – that's what it is. Among other things, I see today in the Smälen Newspaper that it is now going to disappear six posts from the Ashim Police Station. The Namsmen's people are to be moved away from the Inner Eastfold Municipality and to Ski. It was also not the Inner Eastfold municipality that was promised – these five municipalities: Merge them, and we will ensure that more state jobs are added, it will be a stronger environment, you will be given jobs. Work is now being centralised away from the Inner Eastfold municipality. That's what's really happening out there. I just have to say that I can understand the municipalities that have done a great job – it is probably the largest municipal merger in the country, so far, these five municipalities – and was promised that at that time you would get a backlog from the state, you would get a job of competence, you would get a job of government. You grabbed it locally, and you were to get the reward from the central team. Well, now it's centralized to Ski. However, the inner Eastfold municipality did not become large enough for the government. I am pleased that we in the Labour Party have put forward proposals to stop this type of centralisation pending an evaluation. It has probably not received a majority, but I note that what has been proposed now in Askim to move these jobs to Ski, is done with the Ministry of Justice's warm approval. There has been a walk in there, if my information is correct. If not, the Minister of Justice will correct me. So to another challenge: the education of new police students. It is well read and decided that the Police College in the Major Room is ripe for moving – the premises and the location are not in time. I just want to say that I feel it is soluble. The Labour Party is making a proposal here today that now the job of getting a new police high school started. The debate has been a long time, and it is time to start the concrete process. Then I am very happy to be able to help the government with a quick solution. In Moss there is a ready - to - build plot that can house a good new police high school. The municipality is ready to accept a new university. The business life that needs to take care of other things is also clear. You can get to Oslo with the commuter distance with a new Follotunnel – you can barely open Facebook before you arrive in Moss, and vice versa. And E6 is well – what is it called – ‘the straight road’, if you need to get there by bus or car. In addition, I would like to say that there is a very good exercise area just a few kilometres away. There the police students can jump, and there they can run shooting, car drills and other things they have to train, and you can do it pretty much without investment because the Rygge Air Station is there with these facilities already done. I hope the government will work quickly on the matter of new law school. Now at least the location is served!
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25376	The police reform has meant a major but necessary conversion of the police and relief services, and it is not unnatural for a reform of this size to be experienced both challenging and demanding. But now we see the results that the reform is right. The police, in turn, fulfill the objectives and expectations we have seen when it comes to the important societal tasks they have. The trust of the police is very high in Norway, and people know themselves basically safe where they live. We should be glad about that. I am very impressed by the work that the police have done over the last six years to build a facility that is rigged to meet both current and future challenges – a stronger police force, with significantly increased resources, better methods and modern material. There has been a lot of noise and criticism from the opposition here in Stortinget since the reform work started. Personally, I think that this criticism is right behind me, because the goal of the reform has been so important to meet the new societal and crime challenges we are facing. In meeting with the police, one of the main concerns they now have is that what is built up should be torn down again. There is a continuous feedback about calming down and completing all parts of the reform. Now I can't quote Arne Johannessen any more, because it's been done so many times here, but what he had in the newspaper Firda came with the background in an endless stream of reading articles from the Center Party about how crazy everything is in the police, and that this comes from the police reform. I understand that the police feel the need to protest when the Central Party takes a long way into the police's alternative communications department, especially when the information they release does not match the police's own experiences. Then we can move a little further north in Sogn and Fjordane, to the Gloppe, where the Center Party has been running coherently since the 1960s. There, police officer Roset spoke to newspaper Firda Tidend when he was asked what had changed in the police after the reform: «I think it has been a smooth slope in the curve, and as I see it we have improved in all fields. It is good to experience that quality and organisation are more similar across the country. Of course, there is still a lot that we can get better at, we are in no way as good as we can be in all fields, but we have quite clearly raised ourselves a lot." He also stated that the office is now fully staffed for the first time since 2010, that the nation-wide police-related relationship has strengthened communication internally, and that cooperation between and increased competence among them strengthens operational work. The Sunnfjord and Sogn men express the same and fully support the police reform. It may be time for the Center Party to put down its verbal weapons and surrender. The police reform has come to be. There are few who are asking for the reform of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25393	I'm trying to take the debate a little bit, and now I see that the representative Amundsen is not here. It's a little bit of a shame, because I can't really take it seriously when a former Minister of Justice from the Progress Party, who has managed to cut the admission to the Police College in two budgets, attacks the Labour Party not to vote for a proposal to increase the admission of the PHS to the fall. The application deadline for admission to the Police College expires in a few days. It's not a realistic suggestion, unfortunately, to get it to the cottage. But the Labour Party has in both rounds where cutts have been executed, seen by money and opposed to the cutts that Amundsen, the Progress Party and right-wing government carried out. What the Progress Party and Amundsen should do is send a thank-you letter to Knut Storberget, who cleaned up after Odd Einar Dørum and made sure to increase the recording again to the Police College. Then I see that the right in social media is writing around that now we can set a point for the police reform. Dear all the world, we really can't! Then the government party is worse than I fear. I thought we were at least a few that, after the implementation has been completed, an evaluation should be carried out. If there's no point in evaluating an implementation, yes, then a maybe set point, but it doesn't intend to. I think that the main intention and background of the reform was right, and he was important, but the implementation of what the Storting has agreed has been very relaxed and challenging. I think it's a "disease sign" when someone who has been in government for as many years as Right now has, keeps so many posts completely free of self-criticism. It is a recommendation, as well as, of course, boasting of good results — it should be one when one is in government — to be able to address the challenges. The representative Peter Frölich claims that there will be a campaign against police reform. It is not to take the criticism and all those added to the police that are organized in the Police Union, NTL and Parat, seriously Yes, even in the Norwegian Police Leadership Team there are people who think it is part of the implementation that is critical. I have great respect for Arne Johannessen, but it says a little bit when Right has one person to quote from the pulpit. I believe in what Arne Johannessen says as a GDE leader, and I think a lot more places are done in the country. But when are the representatives from the right-wing party going to take seriously what the critics are saying? It's like it's pluralizing. It's a little dressy, and it's evidence of a government arrogance that goes way too far. The matters in Stavanger Aftenblad in the last days and weeks have been mentioned. I think this is incredibly important to get illuminated. The Minister of Justice came here with some nuances that I believe we should also take with us when it comes to what we are talking about, but when we talk about such a large part of police aid, police missions, child protection, we should ensure that, regardless of the approach to the matter, we get better overview and control. For this reason, the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV have put forward a loose proposal to get to it, and as I hear the Progress Party at least speak from the Chair, even if they are no longer in the Chamber, I hope that we will vote in favour of that proposal on Thursday. There has been a little debate about the gentleman's title and some other alleged name changes that have not been real, in the week that passed. But it is a fact that in 2019 the Stortinges decided to make the titles of the state gender neutral. Then the government will follow that decision. Now we don't have to criticize the government to follow up a decision when we largely criticize them for not doing it. What the Labour Party wants to do in that context is to make an alternative proposal, because we think that 'police leader' is a slightly bad proposal. That's right, at the top, out like a bureaucrat that's been sent out. Difor has made a suggestion, inspired, among other things. by Ove Sem and Jorod Asphjell from Trondelag Arbeidarparti, that the government should consider the title ‘near police chief’ instead of ‘police leader’. We thought it better and said a little bit more about the role, and then maybe a new government can fill it with even more content for the cottage if we are so lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25412	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25417	The nostalgia comes rapidly crawling when I think of the bilgeman in the village. I've been working as a janitor for ten years at a small janitor's office, and I know how important it is to be close to people and be where people are. When I worked as a janitor, there was a raging development. It was the digital thing that challenged us in the LEN's office, and I felt that the lentil man no longer did the same thing in the arenas where the young people were. And then the Workers' Party and the Center's party can savor as much as they want here today over expressions like 'from street to data' but that's the way it was, and that's the way it is. The structure of many small bilge offices was quickly out of date, and it became rapidly vulnerable. Something had to be done to secure the population. The raging crime trend has changed, and I'm not in doubt that it was entirely right to lay down more offices and gather more power into larger units. The situation now is that the profitability has fallen by 40 pst. in recent years. The new daily crime is about corporate owners and individuals in the towns and cities being tricked into giving away money through online movements. Often the tracks lead out of the country, the Internet knows no borders. The number of sexual assaults both online and otherwise is increasing violently, and the number of family violence cases is also increasing. There was a need for greater specialisation and a pool of resources. But, you say, we couldn't have gotten to both of them, couldn't we have managed to keep both the janitor's offices and at the same time bet on measures that would allow us to face the new crime? The structure of hundreds of small lumbarians' offices has been vulnerable, and it's a good idea to organize themselves in a little larger professional environments. Getting it in hundreds of offices is not realistic. But we've made sure to spend the money so that people all over the country experience increased security and good preparedness. I still get nostalgic when I think of the loner, but I have for the most part realized that when society changes, the police also have to change, so that people get the help they need in a new era with a new threat picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25430	The representative Klinge was hurt because she perceived that the Right Party and the Advance Party accused the Center Party of false black paint. Now I'm not going to paint, I'm going to quote: "The central party is driving a direct reduction of the police's efforts and our results here in Sogn and Fjordane." That's what Arne Johannessen says to the NRK, and mentions among other things. they have received 9 new posts in 2020, 19 new police cars and started building 3 new police houses. So Lene Waogslid accuses us of quoting only Arne Johannessen, as I just did, but Frida Melvær had probably three or four other quotes in his post a few minutes ago. I can also add what the police officer Boeen in Møre and Romsdal have said. So it's also about wanting to listen. The police department must continuously develop its competences in order to keep up with the evolution of society and crime. Police high school is navigable in all police education, and the school must be given the best framework to provide training for new police students, continuing training and research. A framework factor is to have a state-of-the-art construction that can be operated in a cost-effective way. This has been discussed for almost 15 years, and there is a broad consensus that a new police high school must be built. Both the school itself and external reports have pointed out that there are significant savings in operating by establishing a new school in addition to the Bodø department. Government parties together with the Advance Party have been aware that different funding options need to be considered when planning a new school. In fact, the financing solution itself can be one of the keys to getting work done. It should be possible to find a broad majority in this Chamber in order to be able to open up to accept a solution, for example. with competitive buildings. Competition construction was just the approach of the red-green government to the construction of several police houses and district courts in its last period of government. Localization often creates a lot of debate, and I could of course choose to give many good reasons why a new police high school should be added to Moss, but the debate on localization must come at a later stage and based on an overall assessment. First, the decisions of principle must be taken. The police of the future, which we are debating today, need a timely competence, and before the government can start working on where a new school will be, it has to be determined what it should offer, what the long-term needs of the establishment are, and then we can ensure this through a good and modern school, considering both the academic composition and the physical framework. The police reform is gaining renewed confidence today. Some parties use big words and are extra high and dark in the debate, but when it comes to substance, the reform today receives strong support from a majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25445	I would like to say a little about the proposal under V, which is promoted by the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the SV and the Centre Party, and which is therefore a proposal which has a majority: ‘The government is asked to set up a national weapons register to be added to the Brønnøsund Registers and to the Northern Police Districts with Administration in the Sea of Lake Mess.’ This is an important proposal for several reasons. Both for the police and for hunters and arms dealers, it is very difficult and time consuming that it is not possible to apply for permission to own weapons online. Now, in fact, young people who take the hunting test before the summer vacation may not get to buy their weapons in time to participate in the harvest hunt. We can't have it like that. I'm glad there's now a majority for a digital weapons register. Cooperation between the Brønn Island Health Registers and the Mos Sea Police Environment is a very good example of how public innovation can contribute to very good solutions. But what worries me is the very negative attitude towards this from the Ministry of Justice and the Government. The Central Party’s proposal for a representative, Document 8:67 S for 2020-2021, points to how the arms application process will deliver the highest benefit of digitising. In other words, there will be a socio-economic gain of approx. 270 million. DKK over 10 years. The concept study points to a number of benefits for people in full digitisation. How many jobs this will provide in the Lake of Mosque, for example, is a question that the Ministry of Justice hassles with in the media, and it disappoints me very much. In fact, the lake has lost 51 state jobs in recent years, 19 of them in the police force. It is quite certain that this cannot compensate for the jobs lost by the police in the sea, but it is very important anyway. Parts of the administration shall be kept out in the police districts. It is very important, because there are many issues that will still require physical handling of weapons and personal encounters. We need this interaction between a national digital weapons register and arms management at the local police offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25459	In 2015, a broad majority of the Stortinget Police Reform passed, and today we are continuing to point out the course for how the police will meet tomorrow's crime. I was in the Justice Committee at the time the police reform was adopted, and I had with me the debates that preceded the reform – about a police that did not find the resources, and about lack of leadership. There were many analyses and reports that showed the need for police reform. Now the reform has been for nearly six years, and we have learned what has happened in the police over these years. The police, like all other important social actors, have to follow in the social image we live in, and have to change as it does. The police are willing to change and have done a formidable job. It is simply nice to read various interviews with police officers around the country who are absolutely satisfied with the police reform. In my own neighbourhood in Helgeland, too, the police have expressed satisfaction with the reform. We should be open that not everything is top-notch – but that just means that we have to let the police continue to evolve, be allowed to change as the crime scene changes and with the development of society. What makes me sad and frustrated is to hear the repeated record from the Central Party saying that all the changes ‘it is fali’, it’. No office was to be closed, even though it did not prove to provide the necessary safety and quality, and the police on wheels and on-site investigations just removed them. Perhaps they should have listened to several of their own rapporteurs, like Dan Håvard Johnsen from Lyngen. He said it clearly to the nation last year, that before the reform, the police were so little present that prom drive and fights were not reported. ‘If people were driving jokes around, they would rather clapp to them and say, ‘Now you're getting yourself together.’ It was at the limit of self-justice in the community. Then came the police reform. You can say a lot about the process in it, but the result has been absolutely amazing for us." So these are statements from a satisfied Senterpart rapporteur. Now we have two police officers per thousand inhabitants in Norway. It is an important milestone that has been reached. We've got a modern police force that investigates matters faster and better. Not enough, the police response time has also improved in all the categories in which it is measured. There was someone from the opposition who earlier today from this pulpit talked about that we had to be more rusty. Yeah, maybe the Workers' Party and the Center Party are about to start getting a little bit louder and talk the police and the police reform. Listen to regional man Ole Johan Skogmo in Nord-Troms. He said clearly that they have improved their skills in all areas, and not least they have more employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25481	One thing I was excited about when I broke up with the police, was what it says about organized crime. It has previously been mentioned by the government in a 2014-2015 big news release as one of our biggest security challenges, in line with terrorism, but unfortunately in this big news, organised crime is only mentioned to the extent – I kept saying in a petition – related to international police cooperation. The more positive it is that a large majority in the Grand Duchy, consisting of the Centre Party, together with the Right, the Labour Party and the Progress Party, have proposed Decision III in the vote: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that all police districts of the country take immediate action to avert and combat recriminalism [[...]] It is an important proposal that is being adopted. There is a great need to strengthen efforts in all police districts. Through the contact I have had with many of the police districts, I have seen that the org.krim units that were built up towards 2013 in all the police districts are now far fewer. They are merged and are part of large so-called FEE units, and there are far fewer who work continuously with organized crime than before in the police districts with which I have been interrogated. It's important that we put this effort in order, because in many places around the country, I've seen the criminal networks, which are often based in the Oslo area, also operate across and across the police districts, and that there are events with famous environments that are involved completely elsewhere than in the Oslo area. One of the things that is determined, and as Ecokrim says in his December risk report, is that the recriminal environments are now much more involved in what we regard as traditional economic crime, as fishing crime, and are backers in a different and more advanced way than we are used to. What has also become more advanced is that they use a type of communication that is encrypted. It's encrypted telephony. There are data solutions that are difficult for the police to penetrate. There is the use of cryptocurrency, etc. One thing I want to ask the Council of States is the status of following up the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. After that, the lawyer brought in a temporary directive that the police would not make data seizures, such as seizing cell phones, if there could be communication with lawyers or priests or anything else on them. This has led the police to doubt what they are about to do about data acquisition. They're going to send them to the District Court, it's called, but they don't have the equipment or the skills to do those reviews. I would like to hear about the status of it from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25495	I myself sat on the Justice Committee when the police reform was being discussed, and it was an exciting and interesting time. The Labour Party promoted many proposals, together with the other party, to improve the draft of a near-police reform, for which it was both a majority and not a majority. But in my Retriever account, which I have had since then, it still ticks in daily reports of negative reports of the reform – not from the Center Party or the Workers' Party, but from the police themselves about how they experience everyday life. I think it is important that we take into account ourselves in this matter. It is about government reform and lack of commitment to police, preparedness and social security. This, of course, is contrary to the intentions of the near-police reform. Some have suggested that, on the contrary, the police have become more distant, and that police are no longer an integral part of the community. Obviously, if that's how it feels, we have to take it over. When I heard the representative Amundsen, who has previously been Minister of Justice, a person almost believed he was wearing a footlink and was not moving out of this house, out of the party office of the Progress Party, listening to what people are experiencing, and how the police also work. The closure of local offices and offices also affects the settlement of policemen, who then naturally centralise where the places of employment are established and where they grow. It means a lot to a community. There will be larger municipalities, there will be larger regions, and then the police will move away from the local environment around the country. Like the Joint Union of Police, the Labour Party agrees that the intentions of the reform of the police are good, but so far it has not achieved the main objective, namely that one should be closer to the inhabitants. PF Trøndelag had just a look at the Police Forum and in the address related to this that they have not succeeded in being close to people in the districts. There's nothing the Workers' Party or the Center Party sums up, it's the police themselves and the police's trust-elect that sums up that situation, and we have to take that into account. The crime scene is constantly changing, and the police need to adapt their efforts and resources accordingly, so that people feel both security and closeness to the police in everyday life wherever they live in the country. There are many issues that can be improved in such a reform, such as developing the police contact role, which would replace the man in charge, but in addition, the police need more dedicated preventers to follow up the primary strategy, which must be prevention work. Police employees do a fantastic job, and we have the world's best trained police on every day doing a solid job to solve the community mission, regardless of whether you're a cop or a civil servant. Time went a little fast, so I'm coming back with the last part of the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25510	Literally as we stand here and debate this matter, the centralization of the police services continues. In Eastfold, there are now the namsman functions to be centralised. In Fredrikstad, it is moved out of the center and out into an earth outside Sarpsborg, car-based, in violation of all other strategies this country is claiming by day. For Ashim's part, it was like that Ashim Police Station was established about ten years ago under the red-green government, but it was a volunteer, it was a bottom-up reform, where there was a mutual understanding between the municipalities that chose to give up their LEN's office in order to get a strengthened function in Ashim, among others. an increased prevention function. What has happened during this government? Well, first they moved the passport services, then they moved the foreign services, and now they move six civilian officers from Ashim to Ski – and despite the fact that the Right said that when you became a large and robust municipality, you would have more government jobs. So this is going to be the exact opposite. I also want to use a few words at the Police College's premises. They have expired on a long time ago, and a broad majority have found it. But the government has neglected and repeatedly exposed it. The process has been going on for over 15 years, and it's time for the government to speed up. A new, modern building will contribute to a reduction in the cost of operating more cost-effectively than the current building mass. A transfer of the Police High School from today's premises centrally in Majorstua will also trigger significant released funds in capital, capital that may be invested in new buildings where the land and construction costs are lower than central in Oslo. We're not going to decide where to move a school like this, but for an east fold it must be allowed to strike a blow to move it to Moss. It is within daily commuter distances by train, and it helps to strengthen Eastfold and the Mosse region, which currently have very few state jobs, and increasingly fewer with this government. So now it's moving with the Namsman six more from Ashim to Ski. A central college will contribute to strengthening urban development in Moss. The concept that has been launched is, in my view, a good concept that could provide a building quickly and at lower costs. In Moss, there is also a good opportunity for various good operational training conditions needed by the police, such as the shooting path, the availability of driving, the training centre and cooperation with other public agencies, among others. Defense. Although I am convinced that Moss is the right location, I understand that the Storting will not make that decision tonight. The most important thing now is to start planning for a new police high school. Every day is a lost day, and it's a lost day both economically and competently.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25527	During this period of government, the police have been greatly strengthened. The target of two policemen per thousand inhabitants has been reached, and there have been over 2,100 more policemen since the government joined. Let me just take a few examples from my own police district on what this effort has meant. In Trøndelag we've got a total of over 200 more police officers, and almost 170 of them are police. We've got real budget increases of well over 140 million. kr, or 21 pst., since 2013. Police districts have managed to meet all the response time requirements in 2020, including in the least populated areas. We should not believe that when we hear the Labour Party and the Central Party in this debate. But if they don't want to believe in the numbers, maybe you should hope and think that they would listen to some of what the police themselves say about the reform. Already in 2017 we could read at Nrk.no that the result of the merger of the Länsmann offices in Malvik and Stjørdal was a more visible police in the Værnesregion. From having a lenner's office with short opening hours, a wheelman's office gave several visible and operative policemen in the Værnesregion. At the same time, Jon Paulsby, who was then a lieutenant in Meråker, Selbu and Tidal, told the address that he supported the reform, and that people in the village told the office that they had not seen so much police in Meråker before. As late as January, we were able to read in Trønderaviese that the police in northern parts of Trondelag also did not want the Workers' Party and the Central Party police. Snorre Haugdal said on January 12 to Tronderavias: ‘We have improved staffing, better equipment, professional environments and technology to be present and available without having to sit in an office in each municipality.’ He also said that he did not want to reopen the closed cannon offices, but rather that he wanted to strengthen the presence of the police. That is why both I and the Right fully agree, and that is also why the government has said and still says that the geographical holdings should be strengthened in the future. The solution for a better police in the future is to stand on the police reform and build on the perhaps all the most important principle it has, that the police always have to adapt to the time we live in, and the crime scene in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25550	I thought it might be in place in this debate with a story from the real world about how miserable a local loner's office can be. A few years ago, I was a spokesperson in the Sund municipality when the community was hit by a babysitting. A man is later convicted of the murder of Monika, who was eight years old, but a mother and a community are standing empty-handed because of the serious fraud committed by the police. This betrayal of society, as I call it, is fixed in several instances, among other things. by a review group of the Riksadvokaten. The police specialty unit condemned the police for gross insensibility in the service, and the Wiersholm report also criticises the police's actions. The police officer in Hordaland has admitted that the mother of this child was subjected to an extreme additional tax resulting from errors made by police and police personnel. It was a violation of internal instructions, prosecution instructions and criminal proceedings law. Both research leaders, local coordinators, local research leaders and many others were involved in different ways. Required research criteria locally based on the current instruction were not followed. The police lied to the mother in disgust and even used a crisis psychologist in an attempt to get Mother to Monika to understand the police's conclusion on suicide, a conclusion they most likely had already made the night of the killing. The witness came to me as a spokesperson and complained that they were not called in at the Länsmannskontoret. One set on the same bus as the killer. A lady saw the man killed in the road, just like the city of the killing. The sniper that pointed back the outside door and the window that was broken meant that the window was broken from outside. He was also not signed up to the police, because the police said that the route was broken from within an eight-year-old girl who just afterwards killed herself. The health agency in Bergen called me one of the first nights after the police theory was known and told me that in medical literature it is almost unlikely that an eight-year-old child will take her own life. There are very few examples of that, she said. Nevertheless, the local police held to their locked theories. I think that the time with the Flexes in the head that shouts «It is my mayday, my mayday!» must definitely be over. For me and many others, the police reform is about us having a police force and a loner's seat out there that gets them the reinforcements and the specialists they need when the need arises – this is for the benefit of society and the inhabitants, who both the police and we as the populace are set to last.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25563	In fact, I no longer feel that we in the Center Party and the many others who criticise the police reform are being blamed for black measurement. What about the image that the Progress Party and the Right paints of the police action before the reform? One would think it was the only big swamp of incompetence and dubiousness. And then they're always going to get us who want the inhabitants to have public services approaching, to stand out as prehistoric. We certainly don't get new technology coming, nor is there any change in society. The representative of Elvesuen, from the Left Government Party, said in his speech that the Internet is a new crime scene – but increasing online crime has already been brought forward in the police reform that was adopted more than 20 years ago. We in the Central Party are able to understand that data crime is serious and important, and that it is important to fight it, while we do not trivialise other crime. For young people and adults who are subjected to physical abuse without being filmed, there is no debilitating circumstance that spreading abuse on the web is increasing. What we're talking about today is a strange story written by the Government Party and the Progress Party. This includes: Strangely, none of these parties mention the terrorist incident in Bærum in August 2019, where it turned out that there were fewer patrols in Asker and Bærum than before the reform. The patrol that was seen on the mission used Google Maps because this patrol from Majorstua didn't have local knowledge. So I thought it was almost parochial how the quote from Arne Johannessen is being overused, both in articles in newspapers for the time being and in the hall today. I wonder if Right ever reflects on the fact that there are largely leaders who are responsible for implementing the police reform as praises for their own job. I also wonder if they understand how difficult it has been for police officers through the implementation of this reform, and like it now, actually to criticise the reform. When there's as much criticism as it actually does, it costs something for those who come with it. The representative Frølich once mentioned this because we don't document well enough what we say, but the documentation from the government party here today is clearly Arne Johannessen. But the criticism that we have seen in our position – what the Central Party is in the position of the Justice Committee – is based on research. He's based on the National Audit Office, the National Attorney and the police's own reports, including that. it appears that the rate of clarification for criminal cases for 2020 was the lowest in 10 years. It is fully possible to increase the police budget and introduce new technologies and working methods without carrying out massive centralisation reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25578	I like the title "lensman." I'm used to it. I know what a bilgeman is. Although I realize that it may feel strange for a girl who is going to choose a career, to say that she is going to be a ‘man’ – whether it is a lieutenant, sailor or co-pilot – I don’t think it’s crucial. It may not be that we've gone from calling it a policeman to calling it a police officer, which makes half of the high school students now women, but I'm not going to rule out that it helps – a little, at least. When the Central Party says to Nettavisen that if we change the name of "lensman", we take "distance from our own culture and nation", I have to say that populism has taken over, and that the understanding of history is weak and on the border of human vision. Our culture was once that men ruled: our nation was governed by men, and our history was written by men. Fortunately, it's no longer like that. Now we're writing history in common, and it's more important to include more than cultivating such a outdated way of thinking. Our culture is not defined by "man" in professional titles, nor is it our nation. Was it the Center Party in 2019 that took a distance from our own culture and nation when they agreed with us to ask the government to provide gender-neutral titles in the state? Or was it the representative Liv Signe Navarsete who took a distance from our own culture and nation when in 2010 she pointed out that making state titles gender neutral was one of the Center Party's performance projects? So has it been the Centre Party's achievement project to distance ourselves from our own culture and nation? I'm just asking, and it'll probably be a long time to admit. But now they're turning their heads for the wind and fishing in upset water. I actually don't think that's worth it. For a conservative politician, gender-neutral positions are not developed in the state of horn music in the chest. It's not such an important matter – the ‘lensman’ or the ‘police director’, it doesn't mean much. What matters is what this profession can do to build trust and security in our society. It's an important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25591	In order to continue where the previous speaker was not speaking, I fully agree with the point that the most important thing must be what the police are going to do. The Labour Party has been very clear in my comments on what I see as the Joint Association of Police is very concerned about, that if a person makes changes in job titles, etc., it is a purely linguistic change, and that it is important that a reference to the negotiations between the social partners should be made in order to make other changes. I would just like to make a slight suggestion that one should be able to consider the title of the ‘near-police chief’. But that's not why I took the word. I simply agree with the representative Mari Holm Lønneth from the Right that the most important thing now is to strengthen the remaining service locations and the local police. She points out that the police themselves say that in Trøndelag they don't want to restore the canned labour offices. I understand that, because one must primarily focus on strengthening the local police, as the Stortinget has agreed. What I just want to remember is that 'geographical operational unit' doesn't say so much. There's a lot of nice likeness in the police, but that's for example. old Telemark police district. It's big. So the decision of the Storting is much closer than that. So what the Right actually does -- now that we're going to strengthen the geographical units -- is to withdraw from the decision that Stortinget has made. We expect a decision to follow, but it doesn't look like that. There are a lot of suggestions. The Labour Party has been fighting for a long time for a digital weapons register in Brønnøysund and a government in the Northland police district, and we are very happy to get through that matter. We might not have believed that, as it looked in the media in the weeks before the treatment, but it's a very important decision, and it's urgent to get it in place. I myself was the case spokesman for changes in the weapons pledge back in 2018. So it's a happy thing. When we talk to people around the police, we sound very different, and that's a fact, the representative Jenny Klinge from the Center Party says, that right should think about where the rose comes from. For what I feel as committee leader when we visit police districts – where it is done very well, the police should boast that they may stand on throne budget lines, etc. – is that the distance between those with leadership responsibility and those without it is very great. Then I agree with the representative, Klinge, that we have to stick to the results we see, and not just who we're talking to, and it's so that it's not a strengthening of the local services. We see from the police's capacity investigation that there are two more years' work in the operational patrol. If one is satisfied with it, it might say more about the government party than about the criticism from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25604	It's getting very late in the evening, and I'll try to make this very clear. There are three issues that are not mentioned in the police communication itself, but which are still being dealt with here today, through loose proposals. One is about the police's support for the child protection we've been talking about. I'm not going to repeat the content there, but we're putting forward a loose proposal that doesn't get a majority. The red-green parties will still support it, and it gives good signals to a new red-green government, which has to follow this up. It's about wanting clarity and understanding of the extent to which the police provide assistance to child protection, and what kind of means of power are being used, and, if necessary, in the next round, whether or not to regulate them. This case will return to a new treatment in Stortinget later in the spring. The other is about police stations in Oslo. I mentioned it so far during the exchange of lines. We agreed on 1 December that the Stortinget did not accept the closure of Manglerud and Stovner police stations, nor the construction of a large police station to cover the whole of Oslo East. Then I just have to correct the Minister of Justice a little bit, because we actually agreed on that. So the size is going to be the same. ‘a comprehensive and long-term plan involving the continuous presence of police from police stations or police posts in the outer parts of Oslo South and Oslo East’. The majority has decided that there will be police stations in the metropolitan districts of Oslo. It will therefore be a breach of Stortinget's decision if the Oslo Police Department's request to shut down these stations and build one unit is approved by the Minister of Justice. That's why it's worrying that the Secretary of State left this open; it should have been rejected immediately. We're going to stop this in a loose proposal today, so it's going to be a decision no. 2 on the same matter, which the Minister of Justice must bring back to the Department. I would like to mention one matter very briefly: Last week we became aware that the police had assisted the reputable in throwing out a family of children on the Tøen. The police were armed – there were three or four children – and they also used shields. There was no drama present. The police behaved politely, but they carried a rather heavy equipment, and the family was startled. The police justify this because they are equipped with a general weapon and have to use weapons. We have made a proposal today that we believe there should be a derogation from general armaments when the police are going on a mission where children and small children's families are present. Neither does it get a majority, but it's supported by the red-green parties. We'll take it with us in the next round, until the fall, when there's a new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25622	You have to leave the Chamber, even during the debates. Then there are usually very good reasons for that, but the Storting has provided us with good technical aids that allow us to follow the debate anyway. The vote of the Advance Party on the loose proposals in the Chamber today is being called for, and I shall be happy to help with that. The Progress Party will support the proposal by Petter Eide on behalf of SV, on police stations in Oslo. We believe we have a big decision that should have been followed up. It has not been done, and then we will help clarify that decision. So it will support the Progress Party, proposal No. 19th@item: inlistbox Furthermore, the Progress Party will support the Workers' Party's proposal No. 20: ‘The government is asking the government to start planning a new police high school and to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.’ We will support that proposal. We're not going to support what the Workers' Party has given itself to, namely, competing with the Police Directorate in figuring out new words. You don't think the head of police department is a very good proposal, and I'll agree with that, but I can hardly see that the 'near-police chief' is so much better. We have a 'lensman'. Let's keep him--or her. I find it interesting to register the discussion that is around the Children's Ombudsman, about these matters in which the police have been involved. I perceive the signals from the Minister of Justice so clearly, as to provide information. Because there's information the Progress Party is after. We have no wish to pre-conclusion on the basis of statements made in the public or on the basis of anecdotes. We need knowledge, that's how we implement good politics. We will not support the proposal put forward by the Labour Party on that point. So I want to warn you about this kind of ta-a-a-nguish that some people have. We have a police force that is given authority and power, and that has a monopoly to use power on behalf of the state, on behalf of society. We have to recognise that. That means that in some situations the police have to apply that power. The fact that, in any situation when it looks a little difficult and comes up with criticism, we should narrow down and narrow down and limit the police's ability to exercise that power, I strongly warn against. It's emotional, it's not knowledge-based, and it's about to make the Norwegian police unable to carry out their social mission. We will not support that proposal, but we support the two proposals I referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25640	First, Jenny Klinge claimed that I had said something such as that the Center Party does not justify its claims well enough. I didn't say that. But I could have said it in a good day, so I like to take ownership of that quote anyway. What I have said is that this reform has been given a stamp of approval. The Central Party has doubted this from the pulpit. But then we almost have to deal with gravity forces and look at what's been given to the majority, and what's not given to the majority. I'm never going to claim that the Center Party welcomes this reform. We've been documented on 100 pages. Unfortunately, this also applies to the Workers' Party. No one is taking the wave of police reform in the opposition. But the foundations are in place. It's not suggestions that are close to rocking them. It means – despite the storms, despite the war headlines – that the reform has received a stamp of approval, and that is good for the police. Then there's another thing I want to grab hold of, and it's this claim that comes all the time, that the government doesn't follow up the decision that the L.A. Offices should be strengthened. It's a proposal that also the Right in its time was in the storeroom, and I want to say that that's exactly what happened: the Lensmann offices are strengthened. We can stand there straight back and raise our heads and say that. They have access to completely new and modern operating centres, they have received strong and clear management, they have access to joint units that provide much better – much better – assistance than before, and they have access to new equipment and research methods. There are a number of points that make it possible for us to say with our hands on the heart that the LEN's offices are strengthened compared to what it was like before the police reform. And now, in addition, new jobs are coming out in the GDEs, and that's going to be the priority in the future. So that's all reason to go with the raised head. The last thing I want to say is about the weapons register, where Siv Mossleth has now been in and created hopes of many new jobs in the sea. I think it's problematic that a majority goes in to locate a weapons register to the lake without being able to tell what it's all about. What are the dimensions? How much is it going to cost? How many jobs are there going to be? And most importantly, what functions are there to lie there? On the one hand, the majority of the population are clear that the arms management must be local. I'm assuming that the bulk of the population doesn't want to centralize it to the lake. But the register must still be there. And the Justice Department isn't trying to hoarse, they're pretty much A4 and gray. They say straight out: this doesn't give jobs. When we point this out, the Vice President of the Workers' Party says they don't want any polemics. But they must be able to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25651	Unlike many other countries, trust in the police in Norway is very high. This is justified by the fact that we have a lot of police, and we have a well-trained police force – this is a prerequisite for us to have confidence in the police. We look from investigations, including: in Trøndelag, that when you get further away from central strokes, the residents have less confidence in the police because of the distance. We must take that very seriously. It gets a little weird when the Right takes credit that there's never been more police than it is now. I have to remind you that when the Labour Party joined the government in 2005, the number of police students was 270. When we left in 2013, there were 720 newly educated police students, including Stavern. That was the increase, and that's what this government is reaping the benefits of. What are the numbers now? Well, now we're back to 400 a year. Clearly, it will affect the development of the police the fewer students we have, and it will affect the quality of the police in the future. So those who want the credit for having enough policemen are not this government – it's the Stoltenberg government with Knut Storberget in the head as Minister of Justice. We need to ensure the presence and competent and effective neighbourhood police where the population lives, and at the same time we need to develop a good professional environment that is equipped to meet today's and tomorrow's crime challenges. It's changed, and it's definitely going to change. Then it's not like we're going to put the police reform to death. All reforms will have to live forward in order to develop the police, develop the security of the population – we will not put the line and say that we are now done. The Labour Party always has that in focus: how are we going to develop the security of our society in the best possible way for the population? I mentioned the title ‘lensman’ earlier, and the representative, Lene Wagslid, also mentioned it. It's almost been around for a thousand years. It's the symbol of the local police in our time. I think the title "Police Department Manager" creates a distance. That is why I think the government should look at the proposal that has been promoted on the title of the ‘near-police chief’. If the government wants to stand by the reform of the police with more police contacts, with active police councils in close contact with the citizens of the municipalities, why not listen to the proposal to have a close police chief who is close to the people and who can be measured? I think it will be very much appreciated, and it will be a position that people can trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25662	One of the most fundamental things that people elected to the National Assembly of the country are going to do is to try to ensure the security of people's everyday lives wherever they live in Norway, in the countryside and in the city. It's to make sure that people can get help when they need it, within a reasonable amount of time, and it's to make sure that we gradually strengthen the police and the police's presence in people's everyday lives. That's the opposite that happens. I listened to Frølich's posts earlier this evening, where he said that the myth that the police were centralized was killed. And not enough with that, he says it's been an 'impressive systematic campaign'. One thing is that that criticism hits the Senterpartiet – we live well with that. But it is a criticism of skilled staff and police around Norway, who honestly and sincerely dare to stand up and tell us what reality is like, among other things. Svein Engen, who earlier this evening has been referred from the pulpit here, who through a lifetime has worked in the police in Rome, and who sees the police being removed from people's everyday lives, and how the police are centralised. He warns and asks us as politicians to take action. If it is the case that the representative Frölich and the government parties are so sure of what progress has been, that there has been no centralisation, why in the world can they not then support the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV that one should present the developments in annual works at the various labour offices around Norway? If it's the case that no centralization is going to take place, one should, of course, be on the proposal that one stop the processes that are going around in police Norway and that people report on every single day. The point is that it's not an honesty about what's actually happening. You try to give the impression that it's a near-police reform, but we see the result: it's become a massive closure of offices, and of the offices that are left, have a set, for example in Rome, how they've been clipped and emptied of content. Finally to the representative Asphjell: Dear, friend Work Party! There has now been a debate about removing the concept of a member of the public, and then one comes up with a proposal from the Workers' Party that one should replace a ‘lensman’ with a ‘near police chief’. I know that the Workers' Party has a certain ownership of the reform of the local police, since they supported the government parties in it, but now one has just been shown that this is not a near-police reform. Let's keep the gentleman – support the proposal that the Central Party has about it, and then we can scrape that debate once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25675	I'd like to elaborate a little bit before the Council of State comes up and will certainly answer, what I'm adding to the concern about the police's ability to make data seizures and analyse them. A directive came from the National Advocate General on 17 December following a judgment in the EMD Court on the same day. It is a matter of not being able to seize and go through mobile phones, tablets, computers, etc. if it is not manifestly false when those who own this claim that there is a communication with a lawyer or other person there. The concern of the police is, of course, that now it is announced to the criminal community that it can only be said that there is communication with, for example, the police. a lawyer or a pastor on the phone, and then it cannot be seized. This has created considerable uncertainty in police investigations into many types of crime. Even more traditional criminals, who we don't associate with it, have learned a lot more from the technology of using encrypted phones, using the dark web, using cryptocurrency, etc. It's surprising to the police how many people are now starting to master that kind of technology. And now, as the Council of State answered me on a written question on 12 January, it's going to be a strict assessment before doing what the Advocate-General says is the alternative: sending it to the courts – it's going to be a strict assessment because the courts have little capacity – it puts the police in a difficult situation. I am told that there is a need for clarification. The Council of State replied to me in the same reply on 12 January that she has initiated a trial with the National Attorney General and the Police Directorate to try to find a solution to this which is more feasible for the police when they want to fight crime in a good and effective way. My concern is also that, on 17 December, there was no interaction with the police to assess the consequences and how such a directive was to be drawn up. As far as I'm aware, there has been no kind of contact about it, and I find it critical that when you have to create a solution quickly, you don't take time to round about what is a possible way to practice it. As I said, I'm worried about this, because there's a lot of the research we're dependent on, that stops. I also believe that the rights of property across the country are concerned if they are given this type of seizure, because I know they do not have the capacity, competence or equipment to analyse advanced encrypted communications. It is almost only Kripos who have equipment and resources to do in Norway now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25686	First of all, I must have a clarification on Oslo, because the representative Eide was up and referred to a decision, but I also have another decision, no. 237, and it says: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that an independent impact assessment of the plans is carried out in the context of the planning of structural changes to police stations in Oslo. The impact assessment has to review how the bundling will affect the provision of services, changes in police work and methodology, etc. - So it's a combination. If the majority in this Chamber did not mean what they adopted, I will react to it, because the police chief has now done what the majority asked for. If that majority says that the police chief in Oslo is not allowed to conclude a new contract at the end of the lease in two police departments – one of them is not otherwise open to the public – and is not allowed to create a new, better station, then I simply need to know. Then this work happened in vain. I am not very surprised by the Senterpartiet and SV, but I am surprised by the Arbeiderpartiet. I thought they had confidence that the police officer and the police in Oslo were making this assessment. Then there are questions related to a judgment in the EMK that came all the way at the end of December. It is absolutely right that the limited ability to confiscate, unless it is obvious that the information coming is not correct. The Department, the Legal Department and the Police Department are now working with the POD to look at temporary solutions related to the prosecution directive, and to look at legislative and regulatory changes, for that is probably what the answer is. We have chosen not to appeal this judgment. I think at all that it has been a good debate. There's a lot of consensus in the room about the police, and then there's some obvious disagreements. I feel that the distinction goes between those who want to turn the clock back, those who want to go back to a police ano 2013, and those who want to go forward. So we want to go forward. The committee's head called for self-esteem that not everything is perfect. I have to say that the police report is very clear on the challenge picture, very clear that everything is not perfect. I have been very clear on this in all my articles about this. But very much is good, and we're going to build on that. We're not going to turn the clock back. It doesn't need the police, and at least it doesn't need the Norwegian people. A lot still has to be done, and that's a job we'll never finish. Many, regardless of party membership, have boasted of the police. That's very good. It is good that we all agree that we are proud of our police. There is a great job of civil servants, police officers, police districts, police Directorates and our special agencies. We can be very proud of the police in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25705	The representative Petter Eide had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25710	Let me clarify these two decisions we made December 11th. One decision was that we wanted to maintain a local structure at the police station in Oslo; we didn't want any closure. But within that framework, there is, of course, room for structural changes to the police, and if structural changes are to be made, we are asking for the impact assessment reported here. This does not mean that the impact assessment will end with a breach of Decision I. Decision I stand firm. The structure of the local stations shall be: There should be no aggregation but an impact assessment of other structural changes. That's how Stortinget's intention has been, and if the decision in the department is to shut down these two police stations and create a new station for Oslo East, it breaks with the majority decision of the Stortinget made December 11th.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25717	We've been busy with a lot of different things in this treatment, and over time the Labour Party has also been concerned about the number of police missions associated with mentally ill people. We have written in the statement that we believe that the government should listen to the police chaplain in the Oslo police district, who is asking to get started on psychiatry bullies. We have a very good experience with this from, among other things. The mountains, and the health politicians in the Workers' Party are very concerned about this. To the representative Frölich: How can it be that people in Norway react so strongly to the fact that the local police are not strengthened, when it is so absolutely brilliant, so one can right it from the Right? I could give you an example. When the inhabitants of the municipality of Hjartdal were told that their Länsmannskontoret would lay down, they went along because they were told that the police station on the Notodden would be strengthened, and the total supply and patrols would be strengthened in the area. The same was true of my home town, the valley of Tokke. There was a federal office. There were not very many protests against it, because we were told that one would strengthen the police in West Telemark, and that there would be more police locally. When we see that the police station at Notodden is missing the crew and becomes weak, the speakers in Notodden and Hjartdal react to it, because that is not what was promised. I don't really think this is so hard to understand, but I have the impression that the government party is now seriously jumping from the promises and goals and redefine the near-police action. I often feel that we from the Labour Party are asked questions about: What is really close? It is important to be close to the Internet, and then we see that the Riksrevision is not, to any extent, impressed by that effort either. The center party will have to listen to us when it comes to titles. It's not the most important thing. I don't think there'll automatically be more policemen out in the country no matter what it's called. The most important thing for the Labour Party is to provide for a stronger operating budget for the police districts, to provide an appeal for victims of crime not to be in unworthy queues, and to deliver on what we promise the citizens when the police reform was made: a more like police throughout the country. We hear from a lot of articles here today that we're not in the vicinity of being there. The job is far from done. I want to warn everyone from the Right who today believes and tries to say that we're now seeing a dot. Absolutely not – should there be a government shift to the fall, I believe that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV will come much further into that work than we have now seen from the Right and very many government councils from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25732	Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25737	As I was in my main post, only in countries where old GDR reforms are well received in the initial phase and the subsequent implementation phase. After a few years, everyone actually thinks it was a pretty good reform, and one finds out that this might have been smart anyway – a bit like when we introduced color-tv and the centre party voted against. I think the Center Party has removed it from its program. Since the Workers' Party has launched an idea of the replacement title for «lensman» and it all starts to become – let's say – a bit of the humorous battle, I allow myself a late evening hour to launch another concept, which is even gender neutral. Why not 'Sheriff', and we can put that debate to death?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25744	The representative Jenny Klinge has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25749	The centre party believes this police department leader's proposal is bad, and we want to keep the 'lensman' as a change of heart. Must be something other than a 'lensman', we have to come to something other than a 'police leader'. The name 'near-police reform' has been made so crazy by, and rightly so, that calling the lieutenant 'near-police chief' instead would be parody, in my opinion. I just wrote on Facebook that I included myself in the outline 'northman'. "Man" and "man" mean not only men in some expressions, but also men and fives about both sexes. Then I think it's up to us as a society if we choose to be historyless and cut out words like 'lensman', which have existed for 900 years, to make everything so-called gender neutral, or if we prefer to have words like 'lensman', 'northman' and 'all-men' still five of us women too. I vote for it. In practice, gender-neutral demands in gender, and both ‘leader’ and ‘manager’ are male genders.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25756	I just have to point out, without being a troublemaker – I have no desire to be – to decision No. 237, which reads: ‘The impact analysis has to review how the aggregation’ — the aggregation — ‘will affect the service provision’. So the chief of police has done the job that Stortinget has asked for. If you've changed your mind, it's fine if the police in Oslo find out. If you're forced to have an office structure that's not forward-looking or appropriate, if you're forced to make agreements, maybe the bulk of the population will have an opinion about the address, the square meters, the rental price and the kind of thing, and in that case it's nice to know it. But what was meant by the word'merging' and the analysis of a merger? I believe that this is absolutely essential for us to be able to follow the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25765	The representative Peter Frölich has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25770	I just have to say that I think it's very serious and sad that my wish for the police, that we should respect the police and the police officers and their responsibility, is broken already in the first turn by a huge majority going in and actually taking over the role of police officers. It is important to bear in mind that if we do not give responsibility, we cannot assume responsibility either. This deludes well-established responsibilities that we have been practicing since the morning. I think this sets a very, very unfortunate precedent. If I had been a police officer in Oslo today, I would have been confused, but I would have also felt that the bulk of the population is trotting over a very serious and fundamentally important border. I don't like evolution, and I hope that the bulk of the population thinks about it before Thursday.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25777	I shall not withdraw the debate unnecessarily, but I thought I would make an explanation of vote. The Labour Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 18, from SV. Then I need some clarifications when it comes to proposal No. 19, also in view of what the Council of State says from the pulpit. Now I'm going to look very carefully at that decision, the vote is not until Thursday, but I'm pretty sure – and someone can correct me – that what we asked for was an independent statement. Then I would like to have an answer as to whether that is what the council believes she's got. We might also have the opportunity to see it. I just want to notify you that the vote is on Thursday. We'll take a look at what's being said, but for our part, it was absolutely crucial to make sure that we got an independent investigation, to prevent a merger of the two police stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25787	Jan Bøhler has spoken the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25792	I just want to confirm that it says ‘independent’, as the representative of Wagzlid now said, in that decision of II. In point I, it is stated that the representative Eide referred to: ‘continuous presence of police from police stations or police posts in the outer parts of Oslo South and Oslo East’. So that's what the two stations cover. I see the decision that there is a room for the police to investigate possible location, i.e. how to have a presence in Oslo East and Oslo South. I had hoped that a process had been initiated to find that room, to show that one would have a presence in line with the decision of the I. With aggregation, I also perceive, for example, that specialists working in the same field need to sit together, and you need to have solutions for that. The police have their needs here, and the people have their needs. I wish you would have shown a little more willingness to develop a model that is good for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25806	Just to be very clear, what I asked the Oslo police to do was to make an independent analysis according to the Storting decision. I perceive – I have to say I perceive – that this is what the police chief has done, and that is the information she has shared with the City Council and with the city council politicians. Then I can't say anything about the content of that analysis, I haven't got it on the table, but when this is being pushed out what decisions we – I – have to make based on the decision of the Storting, we have to deal with this. I perceive that there has been an independent analysis, and it is about being present in this part of the city, and it is primarily about being present on patrols outside among people, doing preventive work. There's a huge job in Oslo, which has challenges that no one else has, and it's done outside of people, but it's just about being able to bring together the skills. The content of this can't be good, but the message is an independent analysis based on Storting's order that there should be a merger, that's what had to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25813	The representative Ingunn Foss has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25818	It's been a long night and a long debate. I'm just going to end with a few quotes about what the police reform has given us. I refer to Ingar Bøen: What is certain is that the police in More and Romesdal have never been better equipped to provide good police services than today. This is due to motivated employees, good budgets and police reform. Furthermore, a quote from Ole Johan Skogmo, regional manager in Nord-Troms: ‘All measurable parameters show that both preparedness, visibility and police services have improved considerably.’ He also develops closer contact with people. That's very good. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25832	The right-hand side overlooks the total criticism from the local trust leaders, who come from the largest associations that organize policemen. It's not so surprising, it happened to Jenny Klinge and I'm late in a debate with the representative Foss at the Local Community Conference. I guess we're just going to have to disagree with each other, and that's what I think we're going to have to do. To the vote: The answer I get from the Council of State now is not satisfactory – it doesn’t seem to me that the Council of State ‘understands’ that it is, etc. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have another proposal today, which does not get multiples, but we believe that one should stop all ongoing centralisation now pending an evaluation of the police reform. In light of that, it's probably quite natural for us to support that proposal for SV. But the vote is Thursday. If the Council of State has some completely new information, we may get it, but I also understand, as Jan Bøhler emphasizes, that what we asked for was an independent investigation, and it was also a clear wish from the parties behind, if not to do such a operation now. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-02-23.ana.ud242e25841	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox Today's map is then the end of the debate. Is there anyone who requests a word before the meeting is deleted? - The meeting has been cancelled.
