ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e261	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e266	I have, on behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Wold and myself, the pleasure of promoting a proposal to oblige health companies to follow the advice given to patients from the Expert Panel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e271	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e291	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e308	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e325	We disagree about a lot in this house, but I think we all gather about the desire to have strong institutions that work in each way to protect important values in our society. There are institutions that provide democratic control, institutions that ensure that human rights are upheld, institutions that ensure that, as a Norwegian citizen, the meeting with a powerful administrative apparatus is not completely helpless, and institutions that control power and do their part to make our society even a little better, report by report. The previous chairman of this committee well called these institutions the jewels of the crown of democracy, and it's actually quite strikingly summed up. I know that I have the committee with me when I express my gratitude for the important and good work done in the underlying bodies of the Storting. The draft budget put on the table by the Presidency is adopted in its entirety by the government and promoted to the Grand Duchy without any changes. It is therefore a pleasure to be able to present a unanimous vote on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e334	We in the Control and Constitutional Committee are responsible for the five external bodies of the Storting: the Riksrevisionen, the Civil Ombudsman, the EOS Committee, the Ombudsman of Defence and the Norwegian Institute for Human Rights. All five are important actors in society who, in their own way, work to promote the rights of the individual in response to powerful governance. They complement Storting's own control activities. Budgetary negotiations may be tough and time-consuming, but I will honestly admit that we may not have had the toughest budgetary rounds in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. On the basis of the current state of play, there is a clear and thorough process in which the external bodies of the Stortinge first submitted their draft budget to the Stortinge and the Presidency decided on a draft budget forwarded to the Ministry of Finance for inclusion in the State budget. It is in this way that we guarantee our external bodies financial independence from management. This financial independence, like organisational independence, is their fundamental element in the performance of their role. So the lack of lengthy and complicated budgetary negotiations in the Committee, in this context, I would say, is a quality sign, because it helps to underline the independence of our external bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e341	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Case No. 4 and 5 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e372	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e379	I'm sorry that the voice is a little poor today. There might be someone who thinks I've used up my voice for this year, but I'm going to try to make it last a little bit longer. I would like to thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and Patience. However, I would say that there may have been varying degrees of patience in the committee, but equally full patience. I would also like to thank SV, who has contributed to the majority for a good budget and a good tax package for next year. At the entrance to Christmas this year, there are tough times for many in Norway. Just in these tough times, it is particularly important to have a redistributive policy – a policy that looks at those who are most demanding in society, looking at how we can design fiscal policies, where we provide relief to those with low and medium incomes, and those who have their backs to bear them, can do something more. We also need to have a policy to see Norway as a whole, to see those who live extremely, the life and the situation of those who don't have the media's searchlight every day, that we are making it easier for them to get a little better everyday life through the political choices we make. There have been many discussions and many who have talked about the arrangements and decisions that the Stortinget takes to be targeted. What's the focus? Well, for example, when looking after families with children who have a demanding economy, it is aimed at reducing the price of kindergarten and reducing the SFO price. When many commuters have large expenditures, and it is demanding in their everyday lives, the aim is to reduce the tax on commuting. And many commuters within the ordinary commuting distance get several thousand dollars in tax dollars with the manner the majority ensures today. For a very large number of those living along the coast, who in their everyday lives depend on the use of ferries, it is important that ferry prices do not rise again, as the right-hand government suggested in its proposal for a government budget, but that ferry prices should fall further. In addition, we will ensure – for those living in island communities and small communities around Norway – that they are gradually free of charge. It has a great impact on the economy of those who live in those societies, and on their everyday lives. And for those who live in our northernmost part of the country, for example North Troms and Finnmark, the special deduction is strengthened, the deduction is increased for both seafarers, in agriculture and in fisheries, and the trade union deduction is also strengthened by doubling it over two years. It matters to people's everyday lives. Through the charging policy, we will also help to increase some environmental taxes. It is also in the structure of the majority with the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. At the same time, it is important in environmental and climate policy to ensure the polluter-pays principle, but at the same time one must have the principle that the one with the strongest back should bear the heaviest burden. That is exactly why we are contributing, among other things. to increase the CO 2 tax on petroleum companies on the cap while compensating for increased user charges. We have a powerful reduction in the electricity charge. It is targeted when electricity prices increase, to reduce electricity charges. In addition, over the last few days by the government, we have put forward a targeted power support scheme for households that has major challenges these days. And for those who are concerned that there are those who in today's situation won't save electricity when you get some compensation for electricity prices above 70 kWh, I think most people who don't save electricity in such a situation have such high income and so high wealth that they get the opportunity to contribute more to the community next year at the majority's tax and tax arrangements. It is a good budget for the country that we have set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e405	It has been 12 days since we adopted the framework of the State budget in 2022 – a budget that will help to reduce disparities, among others. through the tax havens taken. In the Workers' Party, we opted for ordinary people to get lower taxes, while they have to pay more. In this budget, the Workers' Party-Center Party government delivers on this. About 82 pst. is taxed at or below next year compared to this year. At the same time, the richest have to pay more. We're introducing a new step in the tax on wealth, on assets over 20 million. kr, a new step in the tax on income and a reduction in the discount on shares. Dividend taxes are increased. It is definitely a new course in fiscal policy, for which I would like to thank the Central Party and the SV for their cooperation. Tax policy shall contribute to a number of policy objectives. Tax policy shall contribute to the financing of our welfare state. The welfare state was not completed in 1970, 1990 or 2021. There are still large, unresolved tasks within the welfare state, which are dealt with by the budgetary conciliation between the government parties and the SV. Tax policy shall also contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the achievement of climate objectives, initially for 2030. We are not on track, and we must ensure that climate policy is fair and effective. The tax scheme adopted in the autumn of 2022 contributes to this. Tax policy should also contribute to predictability for people and businesses. This predictability is currently in play. Predictability is at stake with a coronary apathy that is constantly coming back with new mutants, new partial closures — at least very intrusive measures — that affect individuals and individual industries. Therefore, taxation policy should provide predictability for people with normal incomes and for businesses. Tax policy shall contribute to the smoothing of differences. In Norway, differences have increased over time, and the coronary apathy contributes to accelerating these differences. Many have managed to save money under the pandemic at previously low management rates and low housing costs, while retaining the job, while those who have been hit by the measures and have lost their jobs or have been granted leave have not had the opportunity to save money. Politics plays a role in such a crisis. Today, the government has presented financial measures such as: contains dividend limitation in the compensation schemes. It helps to ensure that crisis policy does not increase differences. It also contributes to a high level of welfare under the pandemic, as such a crisis illustrates well the gaps in the welfare state. Not least, we close the gaps in the arrangements for workers, and we create security for workers who are at risk of losing or losing their jobs. With the tax and tax arrangements for 2022, the rate is revalued. People with normal income are required to pay less tax. This also applies to trade union members. We double the union deduction over two years. Under the previous government it became more expensive to be a member of a trade union. The previous government recognised at that time the unorganised working life of its government platform. Now there is a new government, a new majority and a new course. We use fiscal policy to support an organised working life. The course conversion has also come to the charging policy, where the Progress Party in government increased the fees by 6 billion. NOK before they were put down at the end of the period, when the party had left the government. Now it's the end of the Jojo policy. Where taxes are levied, other taxes or income taxes shall be reduced. Next year, people with normal and low incomes are going to pay less taxes than today, and the wealthiest can contribute more to the community. It is fully possible to create a tax system that reduces differences, finances well-being, cuts emissions and creates predictability for people and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e424	A guiding principle in our tax system is that we have to pay taxes according to our ability. Therefore, we also have a progressive income tax, with the tax rate rising as revenue rises. It ensures that we have a tax system that has a redistributive effect. The tax system shall finance well-being and at the same time stimulate work and value creation, contribute to strengthening productivity growth and competitiveness in the Norwegian economy, and also contribute to a completely necessary green transition. Therefore, over the last eight years, the government of Solberg has also reduced taxes and taxes by a total of 38 billion. kr. This means that a very common family has got about NOK 16 000 more to walk with during these years compared to the 2013 tax package. At the same time, corporation tax has been reduced to 22 p.m., and it has become more favourable to invest in Norwegian companies. The Solberg government put down a tax selection this summer, such as: to assess how to change the tax system in order to strengthen productivity growth and competitiveness in the Norwegian economy, as well as how to facilitate strong and diverse ownership in Norwegian business. At the same time, distributional considerations and sustainability considerations shall be taken into account. We record that the current government has given an additional mandate that illustrates the difference in convergence to a large extent. The starting point for the tax commission's mission is revenue neutrality, but where the Solberg government would have explored an alternative with total tax relief, the current government would rather have recommendations on how to increase the tax level. This difference is also very evident in the changes made by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV in the State budget for 2022. Total taxes and taxes have already been proposed in this budget increased by as much as 9.2 billion. kr if we calculate the full-year effect. And who knows how much they're going to total the next four years. The tax on Norwegian ownership is significantly increased, which makes it more expensive to invest in Norwegian enterprises and will help the companies to be deprived of capital that could otherwise have been used for investment and to secure and develop new jobs. It shows that what we warned against before the elections, unfortunately, has become a reality. The combination of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV is a guarantee of increased taxes. On several occasions, the Minister of Finance has claimed that two out of three Nordics receive lower taxes with the government's tax arrangements in the supplementary proposal compared to the Solberg government's proposal. That's not right. On the contrary, there are as many as 56 pst. the increased or unchanged tax in that comparative case. In addition, estimates from the Ministry show that not only those with the highest income but also those with the lowest income on average receive increased taxes in the additional income compared to that of the government of Solberg. I record that the Minister of Finance believes that it is not relevant to compare with the Solberg Government proposal. I disagree. It is the most reasonable basis for comparison for 2022 because that is what is the alternative, and experience suggests that negotiations with the Progress Party would not have increased the tax burden, on the contrary. So it is that the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV cut the parental deduction and choose not to introduce the job deduction. It is a deduction that is targeted at young people in the establishment phase and young children’s parents with low or middle incomes. It is incomprehensible that the government will not use these deductions to reduce taxes on these groups. In addition, the maximum individual pension savings amount is reduced from NOK 40000 to NOK 15000. It is a scheme that is intended to stimulate self-saving for retirement, and I think it is very unfortunate that this scheme is being cut. Similarly, schemes for the purchase of shares in the employer’s enterprise or in the enterprise in which they are employed are abolished. For many, it is motivating to be able to own shares in the company in which they work, and thus to participate in the capitalisation as a supplement to wages. There is obviously not a value that the government parties and SV share. In the autumn and winter, we have experienced a situation with exceptionally high power prices, which requires exceptional measures. That is why we have made changes to our budget, where we use extra dividends from State power and re-prioritise the reduction in the electricity charge to a more targeted scheme for those who are struggling to pay the electricity bill. In addition, we will provide an extra scholarship to the students. This is in addition to the increase in housing aid and will be paid early in 2022. The government has finally presented its proposal on how to compensate electricity customers more specifically than with a flat reduction in the fee. We are positive to the main principles of the plan, but will consider whether there is a need to make some adjustments. We'll get back to that. With right-wing government, taxes have been reduced for everyone, and it has become more attractive to invest in Norwegian enterprises. Several people have had more to walk with. It's good for the individual, it's good for the family, and it's good for the community. If the President allows, at the end of the day, I will address that proposal to the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e449	The representative, Helge Orten, then addressed the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e454	It sounded like he was with me at Tromsø this weekend and sang to celebrate Viking, but I guess he wasn't there on the weekend. The representative Knutsen spoke a little about what happened this morning – the press conference on Korona. I think the press conference showed that at least the Progress Party should not contribute to making the debate here longer than is necessary, because there are clearly things that need to be improved in the package that was presented. I will just briefly mention the wage support scheme; I hope that the Minister of Finance can make sure that he gets back to the office and fix it when this debate is over. In addition, we need to look at the compensation mechanism for market failures. It appears that the measures will last well in January, while the compensation scheme will expire on 31 December. It's quite obvious that it has to be fixed. At the same time, the Progress Party has promoted two loose proposals in the Chamber today on the deferred tax regime. We hope, of course, that we will have agreement to settle this already today. For what is the matter: the Progress Party today proposes a large-scale tax and tax package, both in taxes and taxes. We're going to go on with the practice we've had in the last eight years, with a total of 38 million. kr. There was a lot to catch up on this fall, both in the budget that the Solberg government provided, and in the additional number that the Big Government provided. The Progress Party has proposed a scheme that will bring lower taxes to all. We are proposing to further reduce the taxes on wealth, we are leaving behind a tax on waste incineration, we are leaving to reintroduce the air passenger charge, we are not increasing the CO 2 tax, we are proposing significant reductions in the price of petrol and diesel, and we are proposing significant reductions in the price of typical wholesale products. The Centre Party attempted on the New Day 18 a few weeks ago to produce the budget harvest as if the Workers' Party-Center Party government's pre-negotiable budget with SV kutter fees of 2.3 billion. kr. It's wrong, and it's a simple task to document – what the Center Party is doing is to compare with the draft budget that Erna Solberg presented. It was not adopted, and it is going to be totally wrong to use it as a basis for comparison; there are changes from today's situation that matter to people, not what anyone else wants the budget to be in 2022. The correct thing to do is to look at the level of fees on 31 December 2021 and on 1 January 2022 – following the adoption of the level of fees by the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV. The correct answer is that the total fees will increase by over 2 billion. with the adopted budget. If you also calculate the full impact of the CO 2 tax on the oil industry, this is about $1,760 million. NOK has been incurred there as well, so the fees are increased by 2 to 4 billion. kr. Then it's nice to hear Knutsen's representative, who suggests that when one fee goes up, another has to go down – as if it's a zero sum game. So it's not. There is an increase in taxes, and there is an increase in taxes, which comes already after eight weeks in government. The parties therefore propose tax increases on the CO 2 tax by 28 pst. An air passenger charge is introduced, a waste incineration levy is imposed, and the one-off charge for chargeable hybrid cars is increased – which will affect 20,000 customers who are waiting for their car in the new year and who can get an extra charge of up to NOK 80000. I have believed that party leader Vedum was serious when he has protested at just high fuel prices, air passenger charges and CO 2 tax. Then it was very strange to hear the representative Geelsvik, who just talked about the need to increase the CO 2 fee for, among other things. petroleum industry. In the evening post on August 10th this year we could read: ‘If Sp takes the government offices many charges will get an overhaul.’ Now I can’t speak for all readers of the evening post, but I would think most interpreted this as that charges should be lowered. In the interview, the current Minister of Finance also called for a tax return. We in the Progress Party have thought that this has been unnecessary because that is what we are dealing with here today. We have thought that the need has not been present because we have reduced the fees in total, but now that we see that they are increasing already at the first opportunity, there may be a need for a fee notification anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e488	The President shall assume that the representative will address the proposals he referred to in the submission.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e493	I would love to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e498	The representative Roy Steffensen then addressed the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e503	Differences in wealth and income are far too high in Norway, and these developments have accelerated in recent years. The Korona crisis and the financial measures taken to remedy it have also contributed to it. Today, I think it is wise to remind myself that some of the measures that have been adopted in this Chamber have just helped some of the richest people in the country to withdraw, while the crisis has also struck dramatically crooked and led others to much worse advice. The increase in differences is also driven by significant tax cuts to the wealthiest in the country. Now in Norway, we have a wealth inequality that is similar to that in the United Kingdom, and greater than in countries such as the United Kingdom. Spain. New SSB figures also show that income inequality is much greater than previously estimated. There's a lot of hidden wealth that hasn't been included in official statistics, but that means that the country's richest people leave the rest and get a bigger and larger part of the pie. If you are serious about wanting low inequality in Norway, you also need to take these figures seriously, and that must mean being willing to change the tax system and make it more redistributive. Tax is one of the most important and effective instruments we have to influence the distribution in Norway, and it is not possible to believe that the inequality should be low and argue for ever new cuts in taxes on wealth. That is why I am pleased that the majority is now proposing a fairer tax system. SV would have liked to go even further, but in sum, this is radically different and far more redistributive than what the right-wing government has provided in recent years. Now the wealth tax has to increase and become more progressive. Animal dwellings are also to be taxed more, we increase the tax on the largest income, and the dividend tax is to be increased. It was just supposed to be missing, and we're using the increased tax revenue from the largest incomes and wealth to expand the welfare of people. At the same time, people with normal incomes – the vast majority – also receive lower taxes. This is a first step. The tax system is going to have to be even more redistributive in the years to come. SV will reintroduce a large inheritance tax and put in place a fair housing tax to gain control of the housing market, which has become a difference machine in Norway. In order to achieve our climate targets too, environmental taxes need to be increased to make pollution more expensive. In this agreement, we increase the one-off tax on fossil goods cars to ensure that more people choose to drive a zero-emission car, and we increase the fees on fossil fuels. At the same time, we avoid part of the proposed tightening of electric cars. The instruments still need to be strengthened in order to achieve the 2025 target adopted by the Storting. But the oil industry must also contribute, and I am glad that we are now increasing the CO 2 tax for the oil industry as much as the tax is increasing for people. In the future, we also need to look at and change how fiscal policy today favours fossil investment in Norway rather than the greens. In order to avoid most people being hit by tax increases, SV proposes a green people's bonus, a scheme where the new revenue from the increase in CO 2 is paid back to people with low and common incomes. The money goes in the SV's proposal as a whole to all over 17 years of age who make 500 000 kroner or less. Each person in this group will receive a payment of NOK 1450 for the next year. Such a model of compensation should now be investigated by the government. It is absolutely crucial in the future that we do not compensate for further increases in environmental taxes by reducing other environmental taxes. Now we need to put in place a tax policy that both reduces the differences in Norway and takes the climate crisis seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e531	I'm among the lucky ones who are looking forward to Christmas. Not everyone does. Even before the Korona and power crisis, the queues for the poor house were too long and the differences in our society were simply grotesque. More and more young people are growing up in families with far too low incomes, while in the list of Norway’s richest, stunned dynasty heirs thrones. The only difference between them is who are their parents, what family they are born into. Some parents have to ask for Christmas help at finn.no, while others see billions pile up. It almost sounds like a BBC costume drama, but is Norway anno 2021. And even though there can never be too many seasons with Downton Abbey, class distinctions make better than historical fiction than Norwegian reality. Differences have increased for a long time in Norway, and new research from the SSB shows how real valuation of both income and wealth suggests that inequalities are far greater than we have previously believed. In particular, the wealth inequality is great. One of the reasons why the very wealth inequality is so great is that money makes money and tends to accumulate. That might not have been exactly the way the French economist Piketty formulated himself, but for those who didn't intend to read his bricks from a book, that was his conclusion. Return on wealth is greater than economic growth, and that's how big wealth will grow like snowballs into eternity. To stop this development, that someone uses all the snow to build his own snow castle, while we others are left with nothing, Red proposes a progressive wealth tax and not least a fair tax on inheritance. Our proposal for a tax settlement for 2022 would have made less property taxes paid, but those who do pay more. And the inheritance tax we're proposing, has high deductions, which don't hit the cabin or grandma's bundle, but puts an end to extreme wealth and power inheriting. Even before the Corona and the power crisis, the differences were too big, and I'm concerned that yesterday's news will once again send the corona bill to the workers, that those who are now on leave will be there for the third and fourth times, and that those who are asked to take an extra roof of well-being have already started over and over again in recent years. The Corona crisis has become a disparity crisis. While hundreds of thousands of workers have lost income, there was hardly any crisis to trace at the top of the tax lists for the Korona year 2020, when they were presented last week. On the capital list of the richest country there have never been more billionaires than now, after the crisis. For the food industry, it's literally a good shop when we replace outdoor mushrooms and restaurant with canteen beer and Grandiosa. It is very good that the government is now imposing limits on profits and dividends for those receiving emergency aid. It really only makes it even more sicker that the bourgeois government has uncritically thrown crisis money at businesses that don't need it, for almost two years. But to get a fair path out of the coronary crisis, we have to make sure that those who have made good money contribute more. The best way to do that is to increase the tax on the profits of companies. If the coronary crisis had hit eight years ago, the daily food barons would pay 28 pst. of its enormous profits to the community to cover daily, health and crisis packages for other companies that have gone poorly, but since then the tax rate has been reduced to 22 pst. It makes the community miss over 25 billion. kr annually which could have been a direct contribution from the well-being of the companies. Red therefore proposes to increase corporate tax, in a predictable and gradual way, initially by one percentage point, to the level that both the current government parties and the right-hand side thought was perfect when they entered the tax settlement a few years ago, namely the sacred 23 percentage points. With that, I take up Red's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e548	The representative Marie Sneve Martinussen then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e553	1991 will be an important year in fiscal policy and in climate policy. The reason is that in 1991 we introduced the CO 2 tax in Norway, as one of the very first countries in the world. It was a wise decision, because the climate challenge is primarily a market failure where large negative impacts for others in terms of CO 2 emissions are not priced into the business models. Correcting that failure is the whole point of taxing emissions and the whole point of the forurein-payer principle. It's effective, it's fair, and it's worked well. The same way that 1991 is a brand year in that way, I also think that 2021 will be standing as a brand year. This is because this is the year in which we've been a few that that tool, the forureinar-payer-principle, should be strongly strengthened to reach the climate targets to Norway and convert the Norwegian economy. When the previous government presented the proposal to escalate CO 2 taxes sharply towards 2030 – and it is not very long since, it is barely a year – there was considerable resistance from several. The party of the finance minister thought it was completely out of date and was not going to happen. The party of progress was opposed and, as far as I understand the representative, Steffensen is still opposed. There was a lot – both the government parties today and, in addition, the Socialist Left Party – that was against some industry paying CO 2 tax, for example. the waste incineration industry. But now that we're here after a government has first looked at this, and then a new one has done it, and the budget has come and gone, there's pretty much full agreement that we're going to reach the goal of NOK 2,000 in carbon price by 2030, that the escalation is going to happen linearly, by 28 pst. increase next year, and that we're going to close more and more holes in that system, so it hits wide and it shouldn't be free for anyone to escape greenhouse gases. So I'm going to say that there's a reason to enjoy it. In a demanding year, in many ways, including in climate policy, this will be standing, and it is important. It shall be stated that there is still reason to criticise the profile on which the plurals were finally identified, including at that point. Among other things, we're going to have less emission reductions than the Solberg government proposal because one in road traffic is going to leave that principle in place and let more people escape. But in the big picture, the direction is now right, and that's good. What is still the main difference between what the bourgeois government would have agreed and proposed, and what is being done now, is that one forgets the other side of the green tax change. Because what we in the Left and the Solberg government were clear about is that it's going to be a tax change. It will cost more to emit CO 2, but then it will pay more to create jobs, and one will lower taxes and taxes in other areas. That was followed up in our draft budget, and that was an important part of the climate plan. And that's the principle that the finance minister, the government and the red-green plural no leave, because they're increasing tax and tax pressure by nearly 10 billion. kr. It's demanding for a lot of companies. This means that it's not a green tax change, and it's going to be harder to convert. Thus, at a time when many companies have it demanding, to say it carefully, Christmas gift from the red-green majority is that an increase in the wealth tax, an increase in the dividend tax, a reduction in the stock tax – in short, it will be more demanding to invest in Norwegian jobs for Norwegian owners. It is not good for the green shift, but it is also not good for the overall economic development in Norway. Finally, I am told – in the light of the situation we are facing, and the day we have today – that now there are many company owners who, for very different reasons, are very concerned, and it is because of the closure of Norway that is now being implemented. Some industries are now being shut down for all practical purposes. Different occupational groups are banned for all practical purposes and one is uncertain about the future. There have been some estimates of answers from the government today, but there are still a number of questions left, when the plans will be agreed upon in the Storing, when they will apply, and when the money will come out to those who need them. The answers must come as quickly as possible, so that people can go one by the way secure Christmas time meets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e583	Korona and electricity prices characterise Norway, Europe and the world, as a mild taste of the challenges we face as the natural and climate crisis continues to rise in intensity. Our task as politicians is to be ahead of solutions to ensure a stable society. Then it is important to remember some of the underlying causes of the current crisis we are in today. One of the biggest drivers of the power price is just that the material consumption increased in the coronary apex by that we could no longer spend money on each other and on services, but spent money on material consumption instead. It drove production up in the world's factories, and with that consumption of raw materials and fossil energy and thus energy prices in addition. High electricity prices hit hardest those with the least and charges are most difficult to deal with for those with the least. We in the Green Party believe that the answer to this is not to close the borders and cut incentives to save energy – instead we have to think again. Firstly, Norway is one of the countries that actually serves the high energy prices. Exceptionally high gas prices mean that we can bring even greater sums into our common pension fund, and at the same time, the government also makes a lot of money that you and I have large electricity bills. It is unreasonable, and therefore it is positive that the government has taken action to remedy the situation in the short term, but we must be prepared that this is a situation that will also affect us in the future. For this reason, the Green Party has proposed a long-term scheme that limits the amount of tax revenue and dividends from the power industry to be included in the State budget. Taxes and dividends above such a ceiling are assumed to be distributed again at an equal amount per person residing in Norway. With our proposal in 2022 we would have paid out almost NOK 2000 per person, or equivalent NOK 6000 for a single mother with two children. The principle of climate reward is throughout the Environmental Party of the Greens' Alternative State Budget. In addition to the fact that the increase in the price of goods and services that pollutes is to be charged to the country, we believe that it should be distributed again to create a win-win situation for both people and the environment. We think it is positive that the government should now investigate such solutions, and we very much appreciate SV's efforts to ensure this. In our alternative budget, we are increasing the cost of fossil fuels, but we are proposing to redistribute the revenue from them – parts of it to a fund for food transport and parts of it to the inhabitants of Norway. The government's air passenger fee is also proposed to be re-allocated, and the same is true with the proposal for an airline seat fee between the largest cities in Norway and on flights out of the country: some of it is set aside for a fund to ensure the development of zero-emission aircraft, and something is handed over again to the inhabitants of Norway. In total, in our alternative state budget, we propose to redistribute NOK 4000 per head, that is NOK 16 000 to a family of four. Last, but not least, I want to draw attention to the fact that the current government has repeatedly stated that we need to build the new green industry on the back of today's oil industry. We in the Greens will take them to the floor. We charge a levy on all the production of oil and gas and use the revenues from this to speed up the green shift. The challenges in the years to come are great, and we need more legs to face. We therefore need to ensure a strong conversion package while gradually stepping down the oil and gas industry, rather than leaving it to the market to throw oil workers into unemployment each time we have a new crisis. The Environment Party The Greens solution is therefore an offensive commitment to new green industries, financed by a levy on the oil industry. And with that, I would like to address the Greens' proposals to the Greens' Greens' Group in the European Parliament. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e604	Then the representative Kristoffer Robin Haug brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e609	Norway is one of the best countries through the pandemic, both economically and healthily. Now, unfortunately, we're facing another challenge in the pandemic, with the omicron variant. Yesterday, the government came up with even more stringent measures to prevent infection, which we know will mean significant costs for businesses, for culture and volunteering and for individuals. In that case, it is not the answer to give business a huge increase in taxes, as the government and the SV propose in the tax regime to be adopted today. Even the social-democratic government in Sweden believes that the time is not within the scope of tax increases, for the tax increases will particularly affect small and medium-sized enterprises across the country. The answer is not to increase the tax on work, as proposed by the red-green parties, because we know that it will weaken the value creation and the basis for well-being. In parallel with that, we see that there is a sharp increase in the electricity price without companies being included in insurance schemes. It's also an abrupt stop through the pandemic. Later today we will also adopt a pension from the first kroner, which is a good case, but the government wants to introduce it from 1 January without compensation. The sum of that is a pretty big extra bill for the companies, which I'm asking the Minister of Finance to be very aware of, because there's something we need now, it's that they get their senses through the tough time, which I noticed the Minister of Finance also commented today early. The sum is pretty much, and you also have to be aware of that. In the budget we provided, the families of young children received a tax of NOK 2000 in the form of increased parental deductions. Unfortunately, the government and SV remove it. Even more disappointed and not least surprised, I am about the halving of the tax deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The gift or deduction limit is reduced from NOK 50000 to NOK 25000. Several organisations report that this will result in a dramatic reduction in the gift income of their work. The centre party claims that this cut to volunteering is part of their policy of equalising differences. It's hard to understand. There are common people who are engaged in tax deductions for gifts; it means very little for the richest. Not least, cutbacks in the work of volunteering will normally mean an increase in, not a minor, differences in society. All in all, I am not in doubt that the best tax and tax arrangements for the next year are the arrangements proposed by the Centre-Right-Registration, and that we are behind in the setting. We proposed a lower step tax for those with the lowest income. It will make working more profitable. And with our tax plan for next year, a normal family would pay almost NOK 16 000 less in taxes compared to the tax level from 2013, if it had continued. The Centre-Right-Registration also systematically worked to improve the framework for Norwegian business. We have conducted a responsible economic policy that respects our competitiveness. We've simplified reporting and the form field. We have reduced the corporate tax on the profits of companies from 28 pst. in 2013 to 22 p.p. Now. It strengthens incentives to invest in Norwegian enterprises and jobs. At the same time, we will increase the wealth tax on secondary housing. In 2013, an investment in an additional apartment was lower in wealth tax than an investment in a Norwegian company. Now, luckily, it's turned around. The aim is, of course, that a greater share of savings should go to business. Emissions have fallen five years in a row and last year was the lowest level since 1993. They've got to move on down. In January, we presented a climate plan showing how to reduce emissions and signalled that charges for non-quota greenhouse gas emissions should be escalated to around 2 000 2020 kroner per tonne in 2030. This is followed up by a proposal to increase the non-quota charges by NOK 167 next year. With such an increase every year, we will reach the projected level of the 2030 climate plan. The red-greens weaken this tax approach, which, together with quotas, is the main instrument of climate policy. They come with other measures — and many are good — to replace them, but the impact of these measures is uncertain. Thus, there is a big question mark about whether the red-green climate policy in the budget for next year cuts emissions to the extent we need to achieve the climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e626	I have sat and followed the debate with interest, and also the contribution to the representative Ropstad, who was now finally there. He was concerned about increased power prices, which the government is also. That is why we also prioritised that in the tax regime. When we presented the tax package earlier this fall, reduced electricity charges were just one of the main steps in that arrangement, which is here. Unfortunately, I see that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left oppose tax and tax decisions to reduce electricity charges for both companies and individuals by 47 pst. in January, February and March. That system, to cut the electricity charges, actually helps the companies as early as January. The representative Robstad is an EEA member, and if he had looked at the different frameworks around the EEA, he would have seen that it would have been very difficult to get that kind of direct subsidy to the companies, because it would have been in conflict with competition law. So the most targeted way to help businesses in this power crisis is to use the charging policy. It has been criticized very, not least by the Right. It has amazed me all the time that the Right has had such enormous resistance to cutting the electricity charges for both private households and Norwegian companies, because it is the scheme that we know helps the companies, but it also helps households. The criticism from the Right has been that it is not targeted enough, because it helps the width. But for the Central Party, it is important that the charging policy also helps the entrepreneurs, and we think it is quite reasonable that people who have high incomes should also experience that they have a state that sees them, and that we are remedying the power situation. In addition, it is interesting to listen to the representative Rotevatn, who is so concerned that they did so much good in the name of the climate. For example, the Left, Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party systematically cut into schemes for commuters, with a climate justification, which made transport in Norway more expensive. But Norway is as it is, and the difference now when the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV create budgetary settlements together is that we take into account that people actually live in different places, and that people depend on transport. So we're doing a grip on commuting, which makes it easier for commuters. And of course, if you have an electric car, you drive an electric car. If you can drive a train, you run a train. If you have an older car that you cannot afford to replace, you drive it. The left spent part of its time with the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party greening things, which were called climate action, but which was really just a way of absorbing purchasing power. And when you look at the tax system for the government, what is it? Well, it's that everyone who earns less than 750,000 dollars gets tax credits. People who make less than 750,000 dollars will get lower taxes in 2022 than they had in 2021, just as we said in the election campaign would be a priority. People with normal and middle income would get less tax and tax pressure if there was a government change, and that is what it is. And then we're also open that if you have high incomes, high wealth, you have to expect to pay a little bit more, because we see it as a quality in Norwegian society that we have a country with little differences. We will then use different schemes – whether housing support, disability benefits or other schemes – to help, but we will also use tax policies to create an active redistribution. That's what we're now doing in this tax system. In the case of charges that affect the many, e.g.: in a car, we ensure that the cost of using a car will not rise next year compared to this year, precisely because we reduced the cost when it came to user charges, and also cut the cost of road insurance charges. So for a normal driver, an average driver, costs won't go up, they'll stand still, but for someone who commutes, they'll go down. For ordinary households, which depend on electricity, the costs will decrease due to the charges, but of course we had to do more because of the sky-high costs, with the compensation scheme we brought in earlier this week. Then we have prioritised tax cuts against those who have the lowest and middle incomes at, among other things. reduce social security contributions, increase the deduction of persons, strengthen the deduction of trade unions, strengthen the deduction of commuters, ensure that we have better deductions for Finnmark and Nord-Troms and have better arrangements for fishermen, seafarers and other types of workers in Norway. This is a tax scheme with a broad tax base, which is redistributive, and which ensures that we get less differences – both geographically and socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e652	I record that the government and the finance minister in their first state budget, in the additional proposition, have increased the overall tax and tax burden quite significantly, by more than 9 billion. kr. I have a simple question, which I think can be important -- not least to see what kind of situation we can expect in the future: how much tax increases can we imagine for the next four years when we already, in the supplementary proposition, have seen an increase of 9 billion. for the Minister of Finance and the Government to be able to meet the SV in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e657	Two out of three will notice that the next few years will get lower taxes than this year. It has been a main priority for the government to be able to ensure that the tax policy we are pursuing provides relief to the broad spectrum of the people. In the case of taxes on wealth, it is estimated that 32 000–33 000 will receive lower taxes on wealth next year than this year, because there too we have increased the bottom line. What was important for the government to prioritise now in the harvest was some groups that had fallen outside. For example, some of the last things we got were in place, with holiday pay for the unemployed. We think that was the right priority. We believe it was a right priority to set aside money for glasses for those who have the least. We think it was a proper priority, as the Helge Place that comes from a ferries should be happy to start by phase in free ferries and bring down the cost of transportation along the coast. We did a lot of actions that we think it was right and wise to finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e664	There may not have been a complete answer to the question, but it was not expected, so we can only use the four times. So you multiply 4 times 9 and you get some estimate. I'd rather go back to the Minister of Finance press conference this morning early. We are in a very demanding situation with both tightening up of the corona measures and the need for compensation schemes and other. It's very necessary, and we clearly share our view of the need for us to be able to get through this wave of pandemic in the best possible way, with compensation schemes that work best for business, for employees, for culture, for volunteering, etc. The Progress Party has already made two proposals today, including: is on deferred payment of taxes and charges. When can we expect the proposition associated with these different measures to come to the Size so that we can deal with it? Our starting point is that we want to see this in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e672	Without prejudice, because it is being worked through it now, there will be an overall proposal for a decision just over the New Year. But I have to make certain reservations that there may be something we have to notify now in the spring of the new year. I have to get back to that as quickly as possible and in an appropriate way. But we can deal with the capital in the new year and at the same time get it started. Then the government also announced the same thing that the place took up, to make the suspension of taxes and charges easier. We already have a system that we can improve, so that there is certainty that companies with a liquidity challenge can be more easily put off. We also announced a reintroduction of the loan guarantee scheme that we had experience of some companies enjoying in the previous round – at fairly low costs for the community, but which can remedy the situation for the individual company.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e679	Loadable hybrid cars are popular because you have one type of driving pattern in the cities, another type of driving pattern if you're going to cabin areas like Hafjell, Hemsedal or Sirdal. But now there are some – between 10,000 and 20,000 – who have ordered hybrid cars and are waiting for deliveries in the New Year. At the hearing we could hear that they can expect extras of between 40 000 and 85 000 kroner. Then my question is, has it been assessed to introduce this from 1 July, so that this does not now come 18 days after a formal decision? At least the 10 000 to 20 000 had escaped this «Wedum tax», which is now being introduced on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e686	This was a proposal we inherited from Jan Tore Sanner and the previous government. It is always a challenge with these intersections when introducing new taxes and taxes and that it can provide individual costs for individuals. This was also the case when Siv Jensen was Minister of Finance, that the fees from the turn of the year were changed. Sometimes it can give a positive look, sometimes it gives a negative look. My goal and the goal of the Center Party when we sat down at the negotiating table was that the costs of having a car should not go up next year from what it is this year. It doesn't. We will also ensure that those who need to use a car at work will have lower costs than they have had in the past. Those who really depend on the car will experience that the cost of car maintenance will be lower next year than it is this year. Then we see that other sides of the budget have, of course, had negative results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e693	In the past, in November, researchers in the Statistical Central Agency presented a report that makes it clear that the differences in income are far greater than the previous official statistics show. This is because some of the richest people in the country may have retained profits in their companies that are not taxed adequately. As a consequence, it can be concluded that the tax system in Norway is not as progressive as we like to believe. On the contrary, it is actually more progressive in the United States than in Norway when you look at the top, at the top of the distribution of income. So my question is, will the government investigate the numbers provided by the SSB? And is it a government target that the tax system in Norway is really progressive, so that the country's richest people pay the same share of their income in taxes as most people – or a higher share?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e698	It is a goal for the government that we, paragraph 1, must ensure that it is tax-free. We must always be able to see if there are weaknesses, if there are improvements to be made, so that the tax burden is distributed as fairly as possible. Also in the tax system adopted today, we, together with SV, have introduced a slightly higher tax rate for those with incomes above 2 million. kr, and a little higher taxation for those with the largest assets. So I don't know if that's exactly what Kaski is asking about, if she thinks we're going to expand the tax base even more. We are also concerned that companies should have room for action, so that it is possible for an enterprise to reinvest and have equity in it. So we'll look at that report, see if there's anything we can learn, if there's any improvement you can make, that doesn't have too much negative costs given that you're going to have an active business in Norway. That's why it's so good that we have a good SSB, which gets up that kind of social debate, so you can look at how to make improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e705	I thank you for the answer, and I think that's important. We need to expand our understanding of how inequalities grow in Norway. The last part of my question was whether it is a government target that the tax system in Norway should be really progressive. It is the striking conclusions of the findings now made that, in reality, the tax system is regressive at the top of the distribution of income, and it is fundamentally unfair that those who wash the Aker Bridge offices pay a higher proportion of their tax revenue than those who operate their business in those offices. Is it a goal for the government that we ensure a more progressive tax system also at the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e712	For the government, it's a goal that the tax system should be progressive, or tax by ability, to say it a little more popular. That is really the whole objective of the government's tax policy, and that is why we have been so critical of the distortion of VAT, as it is called, with flat taxes, because there is no tax on ability. At least we want to reduce the charges that affect the broad layer, for example. electricity charges, some of which have disagreed, and we redistribute through the tax bill. Especially the Right Attacks it: Why should you give good things to everyone? Well, we think it's some of the quality of our welfare society that it's good for everyone, but then we redistribute through the tax system. That's why we have to work on it all the time. I also expect that the tax administration, which has received an additional mandate to look at the redistribution purely socially, but also geographically, will look at how we can use the tax system in an even better way to achieve the objectives that I feel SV also has, that we should have a system of taxes according to our ability. Then we have to make sure that we don't have a charging policy that makes those who have the least get the most costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e719	It is good to hear that the Minister of Finance wants taxes according to his ability, and then I have a good suggestion for a place to look for. Fortunately, tax-free income is a rare species of Norwegian fauna. Even late pay taxes on their income. But for people with great wealth, it's always a solution. The protection waiver scheme gives entitlement to tax-free dividends, and with a large enough wealth, this tax-free income can be much larger than, for example, the tax-free income. the annual salary of a nurse. Yes, in fact, there is no limit on how much tax-free income can be, since it is counted as a percentage of the wealth, so it's only a matter of having large enough wealth. Unfortunately, the government writes nothing about the shielding deduction in the Hurdal platform, so I wonder if you really intend to keep the shielding deduction, which gives you the right to tax-free dividends, and which is a pure gift package for the wealthiest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e724	We are totally dependent on private value creation in a country, in a society. At least it seems that the Labour Party-Center Party administration is crucial. I think Red really means it a little bit, and then I'm a little bit unsure whether they mean it the other time, but no matter what kind of society it is, private value creation is absolutely crucial. The shielding discount is for business, you get a shielding discount because you do value creation, you have some real values for which you also get a shielding discount. We believe that the totality of the tax system is good, and then, of course, we will look at different challenges with the tax system, whether there are loopholes, other things, that erode the broad tax bases. But we believe that it is also important that we have a business tax that stimulates more private value creation and investment, and where the shielding discount is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e729	In the previous reply, the Minister of Finance said that private value creation is entirely decisive. That's good to right. An industry that represents significant private value creation here in the country is the aquaculture industry along the whole coast. A lot of people are worried. There are now changes in the tax system that are negotiated, among other things. the previous government submitted that a concession should be assessed by market value, including old concessions. It's straight and reasonable. But the other side of that coin, at least from a civil point of view, has been that we are to reduce the wealth tax. Now the Minister of Finance is doing the opposite. He increases the appreciation and increases the wealth tax at the top of it. This means that a number of local family-owned companies now see that they will have to pay significantly more taxes. An example I know about is a local family owned company, which will have to go from paying 2.3 million. NOK to SEK 15.7 million. kr in tax. What does the Minister of Finance have to say to those who are now concerned about the whole coast of the tax message?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e736	When you look at what's in the tax bill, it's completely within the tax settlement that we've entered into in the Stortinget, which the Left signed in its time, namely that the discount should be 0.8. The discount on taxes on wealth is 0,75 in the current tax base. We are committed to having a tax and tax package that allows us to give the greatest relief to those who have less than NOK 750,000 in income. So there'll be a little higher tax for those who have higher incomes and greater wealth. So we're busy having a discount, which was also in the tax settlement. It is also announced that we should look at the asset value of operating assets, to see if it is possible to protect certain parts of the property tax that are particularly active in operation. It's a work that the government has announced, and that we're working on now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e744	First, I want to say that I want the Minister of Finance to be happy, and I am grateful for the job done right now. I think it was very good that came today early by important measures for the companies. I am acknowledgment that wage support is being clarified as quickly as possible, and I know that the Minister of Finance is aware of that. As I said in my post, the big challenge next year is that we have a pandemic that particularly affects some of the small and medium-sized enterprises that have many employees. Many of them also have high electricity costs, and I am following the reasoning of the Minister of Finance. But my question is about spending on the pandemic and extra electricity; it could be small hotels, it could be fun, and there could be different companies that really notice it. Today, the average price is between 3 and 4 kroner in the daytime – huge costs for businesses. Later on, we're going to have a pension case from the first penny, which is a good thing that the Christian People's Party has been proud of, but we've been concerned that it won't be the companies alone that are going to take the entire bill. Now there is no compensation from the state, as well as strong tax increases. Is this how to understand that the Minister of Finance does not intend to provide any support to the enterprises linked to, for example, the flow or retirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e755	In the case of electricity, we take one important step for the companies today: we reduce the electricity charge, such as the electricity charge. The Christian People's Party is against it. It's a targeted grip that makes the cost of electricity go down. It is also a fact that we have greater freedom in those areas that are not bound by the EEA Agreement as regards support for power measures, because it can quickly conflict with the competition law we are part of. So there is no doubt that we have a greater freedom towards households and agriculture – those parts of Norwegian activities that are not part of EU and EEA competition law. We have also been concerned that we need to take some action that reaches out to the broad business community. That is why we reduce the fees, and they all of course hit – among other things. households, but they also hit business. It will be a small contribution to reducing costs, and then it is the long-term power policy that is most crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e764	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e771	On a day when we started to look at the government press conference on what support schemes are now being set up to ensure that people, businesses, volunteering and others affected by the pandemic will come through a demanding period of time, it makes sense to discuss taxes and taxes. There are in particular two reasons why we are charging taxes and taxes in our civilisation. First, we need revenues to pay for our common well-being, as we do, among other things. when the government announces corona support over a wide range. Secondly, through the tax system, we should contribute to redistribution, so that differences in society do not become too large, because a society with too many differences can become a society with social unrest, reduced trust and, in the long run, less stability and less security. Therefore, it is good that the Stortinge today adopts a tax regime that contributes to both. There will be more money for well-being, and there will be a redistribution, so that there will be a fairer tax system that will also contribute to climate adaptation. Already 5,000 years ago in ancient Egypt, we see traces of the first system of taxation. I don't know what the ruler of the day spent the money on, but I'm sure he didn't have the same goals that we have with today's system. It shows that the imposition of taxes came early in our civilized world. But we know very well what society spends money on. We pay tax and get mass again. That's why many people say they pay their taxes with joy. The more you earn, and the more you own, the more you can contribute to the community. In 2022, we're going to spend the community's money building up well-being and providing ordinary people with security for society to provide for those who need it. The budget we have adopted means a new course in welfare policy. Municipalities and counties get almost 3 billion. more in free incomes, which go to urban and rural welfare – better schools and more care for the elderly. There's money spent on hospitals, there's going to be a free school holiday plan for first-class people, and we're starting a dental reform. Today's tax regime also means a new course in fiscal policy. There will be a more redistributive income tax, dividends tax will be increased, property tax will be increased, and tax changes will contribute to more redistribution and fairness. Those with high incomes and large assets shall pay more taxes. The Labour Party keeps its promise from the election campaign. Those who make NOK 750,000 or less receive lower income taxes. Most in Norway receive lower or unchanged taxes next year. And then it's very unusual times. Let's hope for the world that health and the economy are soon back in a normal everyday life. I think we're all looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e784	With the additional number of the State budget and the budgetary agreement with SV, the Labour Party-Center Party government has taken important political action to ensure smaller differences, services close to people and a strong business life throughout Norway. We have received a good tax treatment for 2022. The struggle against the ever-increasing differences in our society is a struggle to preserve the Norwegian model of society. We will therefore ensure that ordinary people work in a safe working life and pay less taxes on their own income. Fees that affect people most should be reduced, and welfare services, such as kindergartens and the SFO, should be cheaper for everyone. We're in favour of a progressive tax system, i.e. tax on ability. Those with large assets and revenues shall contribute somewhat more to the community and pay differentials in the public sector shall be reduced. This budget clearly shows that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are united in a tax policy that adds to a stronger redistribution. Those with low income and low wealth receive less tax, while those who earn well have to take a greater part of the burden. The tax for the income groups below DKK 750000 is reduced, the trade-union deduction and the commuting deduction is increased. About 82 pst. is taxed at a lower or unchanged rate. Under this budget, the tax on wealth becomes fairer by making persons with high assets pay more taxes, while increasing the deduction of resources, so that 32,300 less taxes on wealth. The centre party is committed to reducing the level of fees in general, since charges are at least hard to meet, without taking into account the level of pay or wealth. The representative Rotevatten claims that the climate crisis is a market failure and that higher charges will solve the environmental challenges. The centre party is committed to facilitating an effective climate policy. Everyone must contribute, but it must not be the case that the price of the environmental measures that are being taken affects most those who serve least and who live in a place where they have no alternative, for example. to the car. Climate policy then becomes somewhat negative, and it creates unrest and distrust of climate policy. The temperature of the last week’s debate on the high electricity prices clearly underlines the importance of this. To get to the green shift and reach the climate targets, we have to have people with us, not against us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e797	Let's say that the budget for 2022 is probably the most redistributive budget «ever». Let us also state that fiscal policy helps balance differences and is used as a good tool to achieve climate policy objectives. There are two significant, significant changes in personal taxation itself. The progressive step tax receives a new step with slightly higher tax rates on revenues above 2 million. kr, and the property tax receives a new step at a higher tax rate for those whose assets exceed 20 million. kr – while with income less than DKK 750000 less tax burden. With a heavy and targeted redistribution between those who have the most, and those who have the least, Norway is finally taking a new direction through the tax policy pursued by this government. Nevertheless, revenue and expenditure have to be linked, and after eight years of the ever-increasing disparity policy of the right-wing government — and now also a new round of pandemic and power crisis — spending too much money at once may be tempting. I would like to reiterate that it is very important for the Workers' Party that we do not compromise with a stable and prudent fiscal policy, in order to threaten jobs and innovative growth in the private sector. It is important that there is a good balance between the growth of private investment and public consumption, including in times of crisis. It helps secure jobs, and it will strengthen our welfare services. This balance sheet seems to me to have worked out well, without it being at the expense of the budget impulse and leading to an increased risk of inflation. We still have to remember that there are people at work who are our gold, not the oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e810	I will not help to extend the tax and tax debate, but if I can get permission, I will go back to what I asked the Minister of Finance about in the reply card exchange, which was about the compensation arrangements and working on it. A number of solutions were presented in the press conference earlier today. A good part of it is insofar as the continuation of arrangements that we have had before, possibly with minor adjustments, and some are new arrangements that we have discussed to a large extent, for example. pay-as-you-go scheme. So I was a little in doubt when the finance minister said this was coming in January, early in the New Year. As far as I know, the general compensation scheme expires on 31 December. Does this in any way create problems for the implementation of part of these compensation schemes, given that this is coming in the new year? That's basically what I thought we could have had an even longer line change instead, but I thought I might as well take it in an article. At least for us, it's important when this comes to the Storting, that we get enough time to deal with it, and that it also happens at a time when we're able to deal with it quickly enough to avoid creating discontinuity or other problems related to the arrangements. I think we largely agree on very many of the measures that are currently being implemented, and many of them have, as I said, been done in the past, and so on, established arrangements. So the question here is really whether the finance minister could have commented a little bit more on whether there are parts of this that might come to the Stortinget earlier, so we can deal with it now before Christmas, or maybe if it's necessary that some things come earlier to avoid discontinuity. Is this something he can elaborate a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e819	We have quite common objectives to manage to implement the arrangements so that we can relieve the businesses in a safe and good way, and that we implement the practical craft needed here in Stortinget and from us in government. Therefore, I can reassure the representative from the Right that our assessment is that the main weight of the matters can be dealt with safely in the new year, precisely because they relate to post-payment arrangements. It is clearly also stated that we must, of course, reserve the approval of Stortinget, but I would like to think that there is a lot to do, for example. improvement in the compensation scheme or other arrangements will be halted by the Stortinget. I don't have the impression that there's anyone here in the hall who's initially been critical of the scope of the arrangements. Then it is in our opinion that it can be processed after Christmas, and of course we have to make sure that Stortinget does not stop it. But there's nothing to suggest that the Storting should stop it. I take the small reservation that there may be single elements that we have to get back to quickly, but the main gravity can be treated after Christmas. People will of course be concerned about whether we have a majority, but precisely these arrangements I am absolutely sure that a width of the games will be involved and secure and do not want to play party-political coins on that part of it. But there may be individual elements that have to enter the Storting before New Year – I have to make a reservation – and then we have to get back to it quickly, because the Storting will soon disintegrate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e826	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. Case No. 6 and 7 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e857	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e864	This proposition contains proposals that facilitate investment in sustainable projects and solutions and are expected to contribute to growth and increased competition in the market for sustainable financial products. The proposition was first promoted by the Solberg government and has now been followed up by the government of Støre. It is an important contribution to solving the greatest challenge of our time, namely climate change. Achieving the Paris Agreement's long-term temperature targets and transforming society into a low-carbon economy will require substantial investment. The financial sector plays an important role in this transition by channelling private capital into sustainable projects and solutions, but this requires that resources and inputs are properly priced, so that capital goes to the projects and enterprises that generate the most expected risk-adjusted returns. The EU classification system for defining sustainable activity, the so-called taxonomy, contributes to a common understanding and pricing of economic activity through the taxonomy Regulation. This means that we have a sustainable transition on the premises of the market economy – which is a prerequisite for success in the green shift. We now see large and strong capital environments and companies that want to invest sustainably – not necessarily of idealism, but because climate change poses a significant risk and will mean fundamental changes in the way we act and interact. But the taxonomy regulation is just one part. The EU regulation on sustainability-related information in the financial services sector, also called the publication regulation, is the second. It strengthens investor protection by providing improved information to the final investor on how sustainability has been taken into account in investment projects. It will reduce so-called greenwashing, where investments are made as greeners without evidence of climate or environmental benefits. They thus facilitate investment in sustainable projects and solutions and underpin the transition to a more sustainable economy in line with national and international climate and environmental ambitions. The publication regulation and the taxonomy regulation must therefore be viewed in a coherent way and they are expected to contribute to growth and increased competition in the market for sustainable financial products. The majority of the Committee is behind the recommendation. I just want to end by saying, for my own part, that, in particular, those who are in favour of a well-functioning market economy, should welcome this type of regulation. To make exceptions for, for example: small investor environments and end investors are doing these a massive bear service. It is totally misunderstood to reject this as bureaucracy, as the prerequisite for a well-functioning market economy is that the information is correct and available, that the inputs and resources are properly priced, and that we operate according to common standards. This is a good day for the green shift and an important piece to realize our common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e887	It is such that any new directive on increased reporting will lead to increased resource use for those reporting. It is also mentioned in this proposition, where it says: «The requirements are comprehensive and detailed, and are assumed to result in a not insignificant use of resources for enterprises.» From that point of view, the Progress Party would have wanted both the government and the majority of the Committee to follow our original proposal to exempt the smallest enterprises, because there is an opportunity to make an exception. It would safeguard those with small administrative resources to carry out this form of reporting, at least as comprehensive reporting as the larger enterprises have to carry out. Then it is the case with the EU taxonomy that it has raised concerns in the power industry, because it has had proposals for criteria that could make Norwegian hydropower considered unsustainable, and it could weaken the role of Norwegian hydropower in our power system. Discrimination can also help to distort investment towards more wind power generation, including in Norway, at the expense of hydropower. With this, I have put forward two very important reasons – in our view – that Norway should not simply join these regulations, and the Progress Party will therefore vote against both.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e901	SV supports the enforcement of the EU's green taxonomy in Norway. However, it is important that we do not uncritically adopt the legislation that is being presented. Here we can, among other things: demonstrate that natural diversity is not well enough included in the latest assessments of the European Commission. Nor are there strong enough environmental requirements in many places, as the environmental movement in Europe has protested against, inter alia. for the production of hydrogen. SV is also critical of a few points in Norway’s follow-up to the legislation. Financial supervision has announced that they will only verify that companies report on the figures after the taxonomy of the EU and monitor them, but that they will not verify the methodology used to calculate the proportion of activities that actually meet the taxonomy of the EU. It is extremely important that the figures reported can be subtracted. In the opinion of SV, the government must ensure that there is a clear responsibility for verifying that the figures reported by the enterprises can actually be considered as green. It is urgent to move ahead in green public procurement, and I find it strange that the government has not looked at the opportunities in the EU's green taxonomy to move forward in this area. Public expenditure is worth about 500 billion. kr annually, and if this purchasing power is used for green purposes, it will have a major impact on Norwegian industry and the transformation of society. The EU's green taxonomy must be considered as a minimum measure of what qualifies as green. There must never be a roof or prevent Norway from imposing even higher environmental requirements where possible and necessary. I'm addressing SV's suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e914	Then the representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e919	I will make an explanation of vote on behalf of the Red Group. When we now vote against consent to participate in a framework such as: to help reduce greenwashing, it is not because we are too greenwashing, it is because we are concerned that the framework will not work in practice after the intention, and perhaps even counterbalance the intention. The way Norway incorporates EU legislation allows us to lie a few steps behind Europe. What is currently being treated in the Storting is a framework that, in isolation, can act as an incentive to sustainable investment and that one avoids a kind of false marketing of investments such as green when they are not. However, since this framework was adopted in the EU in 2019 and 2020, the European Commission presented in April this year a more concrete assessment of the economic activities that will receive different classifications in this taxonomy. In the concrete versions of taxonomy that are now on the table in the EU, there are several things that I think are problematic. Firstly, on several points there are not strict enough environmental requirements to get the label green. For example, the requirement for CO 2 emissions from hydrogen production is so high that it can allow for investments in hydrogen produced from fossil gas. It can help to extend the lifetime of petroleum production at a time when we know we can't open new fields if we're going to achieve climate targets. Secondly, the taxonomy can address problems of Norwegian hydropower because it discriminates between wind and water. Now it may be that things are different in Europe, but we are in Norway, and in a country where the hydropower is already being deployed, with the natural costs it had in its time, we cannot have incentives that make it more difficult to upgrade or streamline the hydropower than to deploy wind power on land, with the enormous natural consequences it has. Thirdly, the consideration of natural diversity is far too little taken into account in taxonomy. The environment is, as you know, more than climate; it is also taking care of natural diversity. Such taxonomy and index systems are almost a wet dream for economists who want to put numbers on all sorts of strange things, but it is both professional and methodologically very difficult to put numbers on natural diversity. The valuation methods that exist may work well in textbooks and academic articles, but experience that at least I have received feedback from the administration when it is used in practice is that it is quite difficult. Then I think it's pretty scary that we're going to run as big things as investments after a taxonomy and an index system where we can't really trust that the numbers actually tell us green or gray, and not just telling us the things we can count as green or gray.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e935	The transition to a low-carbon economy will require large investments and private capital will also have to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. One of the objectives of the Paris Agreement is therefore to distort financial flows in a more sustainable direction. Demand for sustainable investment has increased in recent years and the green investment market is growing strongly in Norway and internationally. Nevertheless, there are no uniform standards for what is sustainable and information from financial product providers is difficult to compare. It can make briefing on the market demanding for both consumers and investors. That's what's part of the point of what we're now fixing. The legislative proposal involves the implementation of two regulations on which there is broad agreement, and there are important measures to turn private capital in a more sustainable direction. The Taxonomy Regulation establishes a framework for a common classification system for sustainable economic activities. The system will make it easier for investors to compare investments and may reduce the risk of greenwashing. The taxonomy, the classification, will make it easier for sustainable Norwegian companies and projects to access green funding on good terms. At the same time, the legislation gives incentives to companies that want to transform their business into a more sustainable direction. The taxonomy must be further developed over time. Several sectors and activities will be covered. The government follows closely the work of the EU and works to safeguard Norwegian interests. Providers of investment products have more information about product characteristics than the final investors. Therefore, the authorities require information and advice from financial undertakings to be provided to investors and consumers. The Publication Regulation requires AIFMs and advisers to disclose how they take into account climate and sustainability risks. They shall also disclose how the financial products actually contribute to achieving climate and sustainability objectives. This information will make it easier for investors and consumers to assess and compare providers and products and will contribute to increased transparency and competition in the market with green investment products. Work on facilitating the channelling of capital into sustainable projects and activities by the financial sector is an important step towards contributing to the transformation of the economy in the coming years. The taxonomy regulation and the publication regulation will facilitate the comparison of investment opportunities and contribute to better access to capital for sustainable Norwegian companies and projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e948	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e953	Of course, I am pleased to hear the Council of State speak positively about the taxonomy of the EU, which is in both Norwegian interests and in the interests of business. In the context of the introduction of this taxonomy, Norwegian enterprises will report on it in the annual report as early as next year, but in order to do so, business depends on more clarifications on classifications. One example is that in order to make a so-called significant contribution to climate change mitigation, building needs to have an energy consumption of more than 10 pst. lower than defined ‘near zero emission building’. It is up to national authorities and national action rooms to define this, and for the time being Norway has not. This applies to several parts of the economy. I do not expect the State Council here to define emissions on construction – it will be a little too technical – but perhaps he could also explain what the Ministry and the government have done to get ashore with these classifications, so that Norwegian business can report on it from next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e959	When Heidi Nordby Lunde is pleased that the Council of State speaks nicely about the classification scheme or taxonomy, it is about the fact that the Workers' Party-Center Party government has a purely practical relationship with the proposals that come from the EU. If we think it might be an improvement, we're for it, and if we don't think it's an improvement, we can be against it, and then we're going to use the national space of action. Here I believe that it can be an improvement, precisely because Norwegian companies are sustainable, they are world leaders in climate, and they can gain a competitive advantage through this. This is why it is of course important for the government when these decisions are in place, as soon as possible both to put in place the framework needed and to inform companies about how to use them properly and in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e966	I understand that there is ongoing work, as it is natural, but the question is what has been done to prepare for the implementation of this, which is already coming from 1 January. In order to report on taxonomy and sustainability in their annual reports, businesses depend entirely on Norway’s use of the national space for action to introduce the classifications to be reported. Can the Council of State guarantee that those classifications will be introduced at the same time as taxonomy is introduced, or can the Council of State explain what work is being done with this in the government right now, so that Norwegian industry can actually report on what they are asked to report on?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e971	Now there are a lot of different processes going on in the government at the same time, and of course this is going to be one of the things that we're dedicated to ensuring is a clear and good framework and regulation that allows Norwegian companies to use and take advantage of the competitive advantages they have by being world leaders in terms of both sustainability and climate. My political focus over the past few weeks has been more about putting in place a good order of power and working with the compensation mechanisms in the crisis we are now facing, including with regard to containment and infection protection. That's why I can't go into detail about the different work that's going on around this taxonomy, how it can be implemented in the best possible way, because the political focus now has been to put in place the other arrangements, which I think are important for both business and private households.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e976	The objective of sustainability information in the financial sector can be good, but also demanding for those affected and for those required to report more effectively. In particular, it concerns the smallest enterprises, which initially have small administrative resources and are not the most suitable to meet the requirements for increased reporting in the same way as the larger financial undertakings are. Then is my question to the Minister of Finance: why has the government not used the flexibility contained in the regulation, where, in reality, it can be decided at national level to exempt the smallest enterprises from this increased reporting obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e981	Initially, I think it is a good idea to have the most uniformlegislation possible, that it is a strength, and also over time is bureaucratic. We believe that over time this legislation will allow Norwegian companies to gain easier access to finance and that it could be a competitive advantage for Norwegian companies. I also take seriously what the representative addresses, whether there may be special challenges for small businesses. We will follow closely and see if there should be some adjustments over time, but in principle we believe that it is a good thing that there is the most uniform legislation possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e986	In reality, EU taxonomy has a goal of providing the world of finance with better information on what is green and sustainable, but such a system of criteria that make hydropower less sustainable will help to make it more difficult to finance the development of socio-economic good hydropower projects. Does the Minister of Finance think that discrimination that can help turn investment towards more wind power development in Norway at the expense of hydropower is a positive direction and a positive development for Norway based on our power situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e991	There have been some rounds before the proposal came to Stortinget today, on how to deal with the debate about hydropower. The previous government also had rounds with the EU to understand more about the sustainability and the wisdom of hydropower. The industry itself has thought that the proposal that came to the end was good, but that it could be better. That's what the industry itself says, because you have to report a little to legitimize what is of course – that the hydropower is fantastic when it comes to bringing down Norwegian and world greenhouse gas emissions. The hydropower industry thought in spring that the scheme that came to an end was a system that they could live with, even if it created a little more bureaucracy. Then we just have to keep working on figuring out how much resource the hydropower is. I believe, with the resources that lie there, that the will to invest in Norwegian hydropower is great. The main challenge is that we need to be able to understand the need to provide opportunities for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e998	With the uncertainty about the criteria to be applied, as the Minister of Finance also explains in his reply, would it not make sense for Norway to postpone these two decisions, at least the decision to join the EU taxonomy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1003	Overall, we believe that Norwegian business is so competitive that we're going to benefit from it, because we're at the forefront of sustainable business. We also have a lot of dawning green industry. The government and I have also been concerned about what the representative Limi refers to regarding hydropower, but there have been some rounds. The industry itself believes that the adjustments made have made things better – that it is going to take a little bit of bureaucracy, but then you have to get out well with the hydropower. But I really believe that the challenge of expanding more hydropower is not in the taxonomy and the details there. It lies in concession law and that as a bulking and national parliament, we are willing to facilitate further hydroelectric development if we wish. That's what the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1010	The taxonomy is a very important climate tool that will control investments in the green direction, and it is also a tool that I myself enjoyed working a lot with in the previous government. And unfortunately, these kind of important EU processes don't always get the attention they feel here in this room. But it was actually the Center Party, as far as I'm concerned, which was the first to take up the taxonomy work here in Stortinget, and they were very critical that the previous government wasn't enough on the ball in the impact work against the final result. It was especially true with the force of water. Now, as the Council of State itself said, the result was good at the end, and it had to do with that we were just running the impact work. My question concerns what was said here, simply that this work is ongoing. The taxonomy is constantly developing, and more is happening. In this case, the question of whether the Minister of Finance can do a little good for the Storting for the meeting, possibly the meeting activity of others in political leadership, with the counterparts on the EU side in the last few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1017	I cannot account for the meetings of all the Councils with the EU, because I do not have an overview of what the various Councils have had of meeting activities. I myself have had a few meetings, a meeting with the European Commissioner and a meeting with ESA. Then this was not the main theme of those meetings. These included: how we could ensure a good and safe differentiated employer tax, which should also be interesting – not least today when we adopt the tax regime – how important it is to be able to maintain the possibility of using fiscal policies in rural policy. In this respect, we took a position when we got into the government. Should we draw it, or should we not draw it? It was a proposal from the former government. We in the Center Party have been busy, as Rotevatn says, pushing to make sure that hydropower did not come out of the system too badly. When we read the proposal as it was, and the feedback from the industry that came in ours, we thought it was right to deal with it, because it could provide opportunities and competitive advantage for Norwegian business over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1025	I'm not asking for an explanation of all the councils' meeting activities. I asked for the Minister of Finance to take action against his counterparts in the EU in this work, because the taxonomy is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. It's up to the Ministry of Finance to follow it up. The reason why I ask is, of course, that the Minister of Finance, when he was in opposition, was very busy that the previous government was not running a good enough job towards the EU, not at the ball, not having enough meeting in the taxonomy. But taxonomy is not finished. There is still an important work to be done there, including: of great interest in seafood, which is something of what you are now looking at. I understand that there is a lot going on in the government apparatus, but my impression from at least the central party in the opposition is that they thought it was very important to spend time on this and follow up the work towards the EU. For this reason, I ask again: What has the Minister of Finance, or anyone else in political leadership in the Ministry of Finance, been up against the EU in this matter in the last few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1032	I understand that former government councillor Rotevatn wants to run polemics around the subject. We are in constant contact with the European Union, as well as with ESA, both at the level of the State Secretary and the Council of State. We have had several meetings and several rounds, and one of the main themes now has been a differentiated employer's fee. It's been one of the things that we've promised, because we've thought it was important to create security around that system. It is the heaviest and most important district policy instrument we have. That's political work. Priorities are made according to what you think is most important, and for this government it was important to get this system out. We think it was important to have it adopted. We believe it is important in the future to look at the national space for action. In our contacts with the EU, we are committed to ensuring one of the most serious and important regional policy instruments Norway has, precisely, differentiated the employer’s fee. It may not have been equally important for the previous government, but it is important for us, and I am glad that we have the kind of arrangements in place that are adopted in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1039	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1058	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1065	I want to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee until just now, in a very hectic budget time. I am pleased that with these legislative proposals we are going to provide for the introduction of a pension from the first crown and the first day in private occupational pension schemes, and that already from 2022. This is in line with a request made by members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Although it would have been desirable for this change to come into force for all from 1 January 2022 onwards, it is appropriate, for practical reasons, for enterprises and pension providers to have some time to adapt to the new rules. A reasonable transitional period may be that the pension schemes must be adapted to the new rules by 30 June 2022, which is earlier than 2023, which was the original proposal. Today, we also make other changes to the law relating to the pension market. It is then important to ensure that this is done in the best interests of the consumer, and we do so with the proposals that the majority are promoting here. In the municipal occupational pension market, legislation has created arbitrage-related challenges in transferring funds between suppliers. Customers' common buffer capital is collected for the benefit of customers who move. We are now resolving this by introducing a combined buffer fund for municipal occupational pension schemes. And in the case of municipal occupational pension, the customer is hedged his pension funds also at a possible negative return, as the pension is guaranteed to the customer. The new solution will facilitate at least the same return as before. In the original legislative proposal, it was designed to allow suppliers to unilaterally reduce the payment time for guaranteed products, known as small free cops, which makes a payment of less than 1G per year. This would have led to an increase from the current threshold of 0,3G and would also be higher than in the draft consultation of the Financial Supervisory Authority, where the threshold was set at 0,5G. It must be the consumer himself who decides whether she will have reduced the pay-out period of her life-long benefits. Therefore, proposals are made in the decision to grant the right to require a reduced period of payment to the consumer, such as: The LO has been called for. It is therefore also proposed that the threshold be set at 0,5G for what the customer may require as the total annual retirement pension from the free police in the event of a reduced payoff period, and it is proposed that the customer and the supplier can jointly agree to a reduced payoff period that gives annual payoff up to 1G. Here it has come to light that there is now a discrepancy between the comment of an overall committee and the legislative proposal. There will be a need to adjust the legislative proposals at second reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1080	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good job. The matter is important – it's about retirement. The case may seem complicated, as changes in retirement often are. The clear promise of the Labour Party at the elections was that it is now the turn of ordinary people. This also applies to retirement. This case brings us an important step closer to the goal. Today, over one million employees in the private sector have every reason to rejoice. The government will take care of this. From 1 January 2022, the final pension is introduced from the first crown for all. It shall no longer be optional for employers if they wish to make wages and salaries up to NOK 106 399. Now all income counts, even for lower job rates, below 20 p.m. and service starts at age 13, not 20 as today. Then we can accept that a claim for one year's membership in order to obtain earned rights in the event of resignation was removed from 1 January 2021. Those with special cause for rejoicing today are low-paid, part-time and seasonal workers — often young people, women and students, very common people. Some already have the advantage of earnings from the first crown, especially those with a high salary in senior management positions. In addition, they often have a much higher performance rate than the minimum rate of 2 pst. The differences between people are not eliminated by today's decisions, but they are getting smaller, and the changes are becoming more consistent with the new age pension in the population. The case also shows another important principle: it pays off to be a trade union. Today’s decision is the result of the vigorous efforts of the trade union movement for its members in the private sector, which have since been settled in 2014. Then the claim was postponed until 2016, then until 2018 – without solution. The NHO referred to the legislator. The Labour Party and SV took them on the floor at that time and promoted legislative proposals in April 2018. Then the employer's page called it a premature interference from Stortinget. We were defeated, but now we're here with legislative proposals that are being passed. This means that the pension from the first penny will apply to all employees and businesses, not just to those with an agreement – because now it is the law that says it. The trade union movement has done the job, also for the unorganized. The case contains several improvements, which have partly improved in Storting's treatment in cooperation with the government. Free-police holders live a voteable life with negative value developments. They can now be compensated for by the transition to investment funds. Individuals may decide themselves to reduce the payment time and to transfer to an individual pension scheme for small policies. Buffer funds when moving municipal occupational pensions will ensure free police better than today. But the most important thing: pension from the first heads for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1097	First of all, thanks to the rapporteur, who has both contributed to an overall committee's support for the changes in the area of small free police, and also raised the issue of the need for municipal occupational pensions to have a neutral and fair move market. The first one is in the back right. To the end, we are critical that the solution introduced transfers the return risk from the companies to the customers. We support the intention of a neutral and fair move market. It improves competition and offers to customers. That is why the Right, together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, are promoting their own proposal to have a more detailed assessment of the municipal occupational pension legislation, which does not transfer the return risk to the municipal customers, and I take that up with me. With the government budget next year, the wealth tax is almost doubled. So many people have to take dividends, that is, eat from the seed, to pay that tax bill. At the same time, dividends are also increased, which means that more dividends have to be paid than in the past. Now the proposal for a pension is being speeded up from the first penny. This, together with today’s uncertain situation, results in a convergence of several circumstances that makes a demanding situation exacerbate too many. At a time when we need to secure Norwegian jobs, economic growth and employment, many, especially in vulnerable industries such as hotels, restaurants and travel, can have the choice between paying more in taxes or hiring more. This can, in the worst case, slow growth and employment, and a prerequisite for getting a pension from the first penny is to have a job to go to. Right now thousands are being permitted, and businesses are probably going into an uncertain time. Let me stress that the right is for retirement from the first heads. When the government of Solberg, together with the Progress Party, proposed to introduce this from 2023, it was both to ensure that we were out or had control of the pandemic, and to give the companies the opportunity to adapt. In addition, we proposed compensatory measures from 2023, so that, in particular, hotels and travel life are protected and dare to hire more people when they need it. In particular, the many family-run hotels throughout the country may now need to give priority to paying increased taxes or paying for new employees. As I said, a pension from the first krona requires a job to go to, and it is all those who are part-time workers – students, women and people with a looser relationship to the labour market – who here may risk losing the opportunity to have a job to go to. Therefore, together with the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party, the Right proposes that the government should consider temporary financial measures in connection with the introduction of the first krona pension in order to ensure both today's jobs and future employment and to prevent the brake on the labour market. I also bring this up with that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1114	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1119	This is a big day, because today we are correcting a great injustice in the Norwegian pension system. Until now, it has been optional for the employer to pay a pension for income below the basic amount of social security, which today amounts to NOK 106 399. Pension provision from the first crown and the first day is an important social issue. It is primarily about young people, women, people with small jobs and those who earn the worst, but also workers with general wages have been pension losers. The system has helped to accentuate further economic differences, where inequalities have continued from work into old age. Afterwards, employees over 13 years of age will earn from the first required crown they serve. In addition, employees also receive jobs under 20 pst. for the first time entitlement to occupational retirement provision. This means that one million employees receive better service. The centre party is positive to changes in the pension system when they contribute to better social distribution, greater incentives for work, simplification and red tape. We have therefore supported the requirement to earn a pension from the first crown and believe that such a change should be broadly anchored by the social partners and the Stortinget and implemented in a way that ensures stable and safe pensions and jobs. Now we get that, and it's worth celebrating. In addition to the important principle of pensions from the first crown, the proposition also contains important proposals relating to guaranteed pension products. The centre party has been committed to the protection of consumers in these cases, in particular in relation to the small freeways. The centre party has a long tradition of promoting consumers' interests, and we take that role very seriously. We have therefore wanted to make sure that regulatory changes will only be made if the changes are at the best of our customers. A good level of consumer protection must ensure that the decision to reduce the pay-out time for small freelines is as close as possible to the consumer as possible and not to the supplier. Therefore, in the interests of the consumer, the Committee agrees that the consumer’s right to choose to reduce the pay-out time for small free cops is now extended without the supplier being given the corresponding right. Furthermore, the Central Party agrees that municipal occupational retirement provision should have a neutral and fair move market, which it has not had with current legislation. In order to avoid the relocation burden of today’s scheme, a system of aggregated PSP buffer funds is proposed. We believe that such a buffer fund will contribute to more continuity in the buffer funds by moving municipal occupational retirement provision agreements, so that the rules themselves do not motivate or hinder relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1134	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we today establish the principle of service from the first crown. For the Christian People's Party, it was an important matter when we were negotiating in Granavolden, and we were happy when the government of Solberg presented that proposal. As many people have experienced, it will be particularly important for those with small jobs — young people, students, women and part-time workers. It gives you security, it gives you better earnings for retirement, and it makes you fairer. At the same time, as others have been involved, there is a proposal that is being discussed today that I think is very stupid not getting a majority, namely what we proposed relating to temporary financial compensation measures for businesses when introducing a pension from the first crown. It's a proposal that should also have a majority, precisely because we're in an extra demanding situation right now. With high electricity prices, pandemics, increased tax costs and now retirement from the first crown, we know that too many businesses will be a tough start to the new year. Although the proposal is likely to be voted down today, I ask the government and the red-green parties to consider measures and follow that situation closely. With regard to the second part, when we were in government, we suggested that customers voluntarily withdraw the guarantee of interest in guaranteed pension products from an economic compensation from the companies. It is a proposal that is clear for the benefit of the customer and provides a market test for the value of the interest rate guarantee. At the same time, provision must be made for detailed information requirements for companies to be provided to customers in order to enable customers to make informed choices. The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, is not supporting the transfer of relief risk from the financial industry to the municipalities, which – by all – will. We agree that we need to consider measures to ensure a neutral and fair move market for municipal occupational retirement provision, but we should not at the same time make such a risk transfer. The left-hand side of today's debate is to decide that municipalities are to assume the risk of relief that is currently situated in insurance companies. This means that if the management of the companies loses, the municipalities will have to bear the costs – instead of the companies themselves. Rather, the left-hand side of the option rejects such a risk transfer for guaranteed pension products in the private sector. It would transfer the return risk from the large companies directly to some household customers. It is not clear for the benefit of customers and their pensions, because the effect depends entirely on the choice of companies and market developments. Therefore, the Consumer Council also strongly opposed this. Finally, I would like to stress that the proposed access for the pension provider to exercise flexibility in the allocation of profits to customers must be accompanied by a regulation that is far more precise and concrete than the proposal of the Financial Supervisory Authority, so as to prevent discrimination between customers and customer groups and between different companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1151	I would first like to thank the Committee for the good work it has done on the vote. The first-aid pension proposal requires employers to provide their employees with pension savings and at least 2 pst. of wages and salaries from the first crown — and not just for wages and salaries above 1G, as today. The change will increase the minimum savings for all employees and relatively the most for those with the lowest income. For enterprises, there will necessarily be an increase in the minimum level of pension costs. Secondly, there will no longer be a requirement for at least 20 pst. post or 20 years of age for the right to become a member of the pension schemes. Instead, it is proposed that employees be notified into pension schemes when their income exceeds that which is subject to reporting obligations to the tax authorities — as a general rule, this income is more than DKK 1000. The majority of the Committee considers that the legislative changes should enter into force on 1 January 2022, but that companies should be allowed time to adjust pension schemes by 30 June 2022. I agree that there is a need to give companies some time to adapt, and I intend to follow up on this in connection with the legislative decision to be sanctioned and enforced by the King in the Council of States in line with Part VI of the proposed legislative decision. The changes in guaranteed pension products will include, inter alia: provide for increased freedom of choice for those entitled to pension benefits. In addition, I have provided legal assistance to the Committee on two questions. One question concerns ensuring that customers have the final word for any reduced payment period for low retirement benefits. I believe that the Committee has put forward a good proposal on this point. The second question concerns the introduction of what is called a aggregated and customer-distributed local pension buffer fund. In my opinion, such a buffer fund will contribute to more continuity in moving municipal occupational retirement provision agreements so that the rules do not in themselves motivate or hinder relocation. In the interests of predictability for customers and a smooth transition to a new system, such changes should enter into force from the end of the year. It also means that movement processes initiated before that time should comply with the legislation in force at the time of the decision to move.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1171	As I said, the right is for pension from the first heads, but it assumes that you have a job to go to. The reason why we proposed introducing this from 2023 was that we both wanted to make sure that we had control of the pandemic, and that we would give the companies the opportunity to adapt. In addition, we proposed compensatory measures from 2023 to help particularly vulnerable industries, such as hotels and travel. Right now, thousands of workers in industries that once again have to close down are being outsourced, and it goes beyond just low-paid, part-time employees, students and others with a loose link to the labour market. So my question is, why won't the Council of State consider compensatory measures to help in this transition with the expenditure on pensions from the first crown, especially when we are in the situation we are today, and especially in the case of groups that already have demanding jobs and face an uncertain future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1179	There are at least two elements to the question from the representative Nordby Lunde. One was about the present situation in connection with the virus outbreak. Then I would say that the first government did there when we took over power in the autumn, was to increase the allowance to 80 pst. up to 3G out of the year, which has created more predictability for those who have been long-term licensed. We are also continuing to do so in order to provide workers with security, and we are now putting in place a clear compensation system for business to help them through, and also a pay support system. As regards the introduction of the pension from the first crown, there was something both the Workers' Party and the Centre's party clearly announced in advance of the election that we thought, so the nutritionists had time to prepare for our wish to introduce it as quickly as possible. We have chosen to introduce it a little later than what was announced; it is introduced from the summer, not from 1 January, with the transition we have made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1186	Notable policies do not help those in this situation today. Although I am grateful for the package presented by the government, both at the press conference yesterday morning and today, this is really just about one element, namely the possibility of considering compensatory measures for the companies that often belong to travel lives, restaurants and hotels, which today employ those who are low-paid, part-time employees, often students, and those with a loose link to the working life. As I said, we're for the pension from the first penny, but it assumes that you have a job to go to. At the same time, when the government in its government budget states that there is an increase in wealth taxes, dividends taxes and, in addition, speeding up the introduction of pensions from the first krona, there is a coincidence of challenges that make a demanding situation worse for very many, and jobs, both present and future, are at risk. Why will it not even be considered to introduce compensatory measures to help with the transition and the cost of pensions from the first crown?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1193	The pension from the first crown is a long-term discussion, and the pension is a natural part of the costs employers have for their employees. It's part of the cost picture when you hire people. This also applies to pensions for those who have part-time jobs. It's as natural a part as a full-time pension. That's what's in the setup here. We believe that we have made a good arrangement, which is to a large extent in line with the arrangement of the Sanner Council and the previous government, but we have a previous introduction. We believe this is a good social reform that makes more people secure their old age on the day they get older.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1198	We fully agree that this is part of safeguarding employees' rights, and I fully agree that employers should pay what it costs, and pay – first of all – decent wages and have an orderly employment relationship for their employees. However, it does not help to have an alert policy towards industries that are now in a very difficult situation — which is now receiving immediate action. The Solberg government's attitude was that it should be introduced from 2023, to allow businesses to adapt, and to consider compensatory measures. I do not think the Council of State answers well enough why it is not even possible to consider helping the companies that are currently in a very difficult situation. This is not just about helping companies. It's also about the employees. As I said, it doesn't help much that those who are working get a pension from the first penny if you stay outside yourself. You need to have a job to do to get a pension from the first penny.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1203	I think it's a little strange that you should put the pension from the first penny up against the virus situation and the partial shutdown that we're in right now. There we need to put in place measures for the current situation, with a better national compensation system and a powerful municipal compensation system. We are now working on a payroll grant scheme with the parties, which we hope will be launched during the week, which will help, and a number of other measures. The fact that one is in that situation does not contradict the fact that one should have a gradual improvement in the social security of different groups. That's what the pension from the first heads is. This is a long-term reform that is going to follow us. From next summer, everyone will get that benefit. It will provide more security, and then our job – the job of government and big business – is to provide the best possible security for the companies in the demanding situation they are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1210	We're not setting up a pension from the first penny against the urgent situation we're seeing today. This was already taken into account by the government of Solberg for all the time we went into introducing a pension from the first crown from 2023, just to make sure that we had a manageable pandemic situation – as we see today that we don't have – and to give companies the opportunity to adapt to the increased costs and not least have come after a difficult period, which we now seem to be going beyond. Therefore, we both said that it should be introduced from 2023, and also that we should consider compensatory measures. Now the introduction of a pension is accelerated from the first penny. It is good for the employees, but again: it does not help those who remain outside, because this leads to increased costs for the enterprises. They will not receive any income or pension from the first penny. Why can't you even assess any compensatory measures for the companies that are now in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1217	It is the representative Nordby Lunde who draws different situations into the question and inserts them into a pandemic text. I believe that we need to put in place powerful and compensatory measures to help companies that are now limited in what they can do about business. For example, the compensation scheme under the Solberg government was 70 pst. Now 85 pst is announced, but I don't think it's a point to run party political polemics around it. What is important to me as Minister of Finance is, together with the rest of the government and hopefully with the Stortinget, to be able to have the most powerful measures to remedy the situation, so that both businesses and employees have the strongest back when this round is over. We believe it is right that from the next summer it is that when people have a part-time job, they get a pension from the first crown, and that pension is part of an employer's costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1222	I agree that we should not pursue party politics in a difficult situation, but I agree with the representative Nordby Lunde that it is now extra demanding for the companies. I'm pretty sure the opposition politician Battle Violence Vedum would say that it's the bottom line that counts, and when you're in a tough situation related to both pandemics, currents, increased taxes and now also the introduction of pensions from the first dollar, it's at least important to consider what you can do. I expect the Minister of Finance to follow the bottom line and the total burden on businesses next year too. My question concerns the second part of the case we are dealing with today, with guaranteed pension products. I am very surprised that the Central Party wants to raise the return risk, which is currently on the insurance companies, to the municipalities. I would like to ask for a statement as to why the Minister of Finance believes it is important to shift that risk, because if the administration, the companies, are losing, why are the municipalities going to take that risk and not the companies themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1229	An overall assessment is needed throughout the pension discussion. One is the costs of municipalities or other employers, and then you have the security of the employees. What has been our main assessment is that the model we are now falling on provides the best possible level of safety and predictability for the workers. We believe from an overall assessment that the solution that has now been chosen is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1234	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1241	Just a few comments: one is far more in the form of a question to the representative Ropstad, who says that what we are proposing about a combined buffer fund for municipal occupational retirement provision helps to transfer the return risk from the community to customers. I remind you that we are now talking about municipal occupational pensions and not about private customers. It is not that money in funds disappears, but they are used to offset the consequences of large fluctuations in returns from year to year. Today it's also like that. As the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority said in its hearing response of 2019, there is today a ceiling of 12 p.m. on paper. for one fund, i.e. the additional reserves, and it is also not possible to set aside for negative returns, but that today this can simply be circumvented by choosing the provision in the other fund, which is about price regulation. KS has asked for this, and the purpose of the municipalities that want to e.g. liquidate own crates or exit from the CLP and into other companies is just getting an increase in returns because one then receives a lower premium. But it is all clear that there is a risk, so I do not fully understand the concern of the Christian People's Party and the other bourgeois parties here. So a comment to Heidi Nordby Lunde and that Erna Solberg's government would introduce the pension from the first crown only from 2023, over a three-year period and completed introduced in 2026 because of the pandemic: I think it's quite clear that retirement from the first crown was part of the Right election campaign, to take over what seemed to be the most important thing on the left-hand side of the election campaign. Pension from the first penny was one of those things. Note the date – it came from the government 18 June 2021. Holiday pay for the unemployed was different. Pension from the first crown could have been promoted by the Solberg government long before the pandemic met us. It could have been a contribution from the government, long before the pandemic, into the settlements in 2014, 2016 or 2018. Why did it come in the middle of a pandemic, 18 June 2021, when the right-hand side is so worried about what that pandemic has to say, and how difficult it will be for the companies with the pension from the first penny from 1 January 2022? This is not entirely related – except when one pulls in that it was actually a choice three months after 18 June 2021.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1251	I'm not going to do this very far, but I strongly reject the fact that it has to do with election tactics when the Right is in favour of both better pension conditions, decent pay and employee employment. This has always been for, but as far as the introduction of a pension from the first penny is concerned, we have thought that there should be a discussion between the social partners, as we saw drawn out. I am fully aware that the employee organisations have for many years asked for a solution to this, and that we chose to respond at the time we did, also in cooperation with the Progress Party. So I just wanted to reject it, and I think it's a little premature accusation to come with me from the Great Britain pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1258	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. Case No. 9 and 10 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1289	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1296	Thank you to the Committee for a good cooperation on matters in which we promote two unanimous positions. The first concerns consent to the decision of the EEA Committee to include the Insurance Distribution Directive in the EEA Agreement and to change the deadline for its implementation. The Foreign and Defence Committee has given its assent. What are we saying yes to? We are not talking about direct sales of insurance products, but about the distribution of such products, via the links between insurance undertakings and customers. There may be two ways, either through an insurance broker acting on behalf of the customer or through an insurance agent acting on behalf of the insurance undertaking. An insurance agent may also carry out such activities in addition to other main occupations. In addition, an insurance undertaking may act as an insurance intermediary on behalf of other insurance undertakings. The objective of the Directive is twofold: firstly, to ensure the same level of protection for consumers, whether direct or via intermediary, and secondly, to ensure a level playing field for the two forms of insurance sale, directly or through intermediaries, brokers or agents. The Directive requires insurance intermediaries. They shall be registered in their home Member State and comply with requirements of suitability as regards qualifications and reputation, good business conduct, quality of advice and customer protection in the form of information requirements and in the case of conflicts of interest. Penalties are required, either administrative or criminal. There are also rules for the establishment of branches and cross-border activities. The directive is a minimum directive. That means that there is no obstacle to stricter national legislation, if we wish. The inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement requires legislative amendment. The Directive affects three laws. The size is today invited to take decisions on the new law on insurance intermediation and some legislative changes in the Financial Corporations Act. Then there are proposals for amendments to the insurance contract law to be dealt with in the Enlarged Court Committee, which promote its suspension at a later stage. Finally, the Committee has made a minor adjustment to § 3-4(a) of the proposal for the law on insurance intermediation, by adding cooperative enterprises to the list of enterprises that can be registered as insurance intermediaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1315	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Nine and ten. Case No. 11 and 12 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1347	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1364	I'll be brief. The case is about consenting to the entry into force of a Protocol amending the Tax Agreement of 24 April 2014 between Norway and Belgium in order to avoid double taxation. Several minor amendments have been included in the Additional Protocol, but generally this is about three changes that comply with the minimum standard of the Agreement, and then a new and important provision intends to counteract the abuse of the Tax Agreement. It is a unanimous financial committee which recommends that the Storting should consent to the entry into force of the Protocol amending the Agreement. This is my first case in point. I have understood that thanking the members of the Committee for good cooperation is good practice, so I thank the members of the Committee for their very good cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1392	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the debate will be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters of Framework Box 2, family and consumer, and then with the budget chapters of Framework Box 3, culture, etc. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will organise the debate as follows: In each part of the debate, the allocated speaking time will be limited to 70 minutes, exclusive lines and possible three-minute posts. The time shall be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 15 minutes, the right 15 minutes, the centre part 10 minutes and each of the other batch groups 5 minutes. Furthermore, in both Part 1 and Part 2 of the debate — within the allocated speaking time — there will be a change of lines of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and six lines with replies from members of the government. In addition, those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1405	I would like to start by thanking the Cooperation Committee for completing a budgetary position despite relatively short deadlines and hectic weeks. This is a time when we know that many families are in great straits, whether it's about increased costs, like electricity, or the fear of another round of layoffs and uncertainties about work. Therefore, it is important that we have good, sound arrangements for all families. For the Left, it is important that all children grow up with at least as much freedom as what we have today. Your possibilities should not be restricted by which family you grow up in, who you will be happy with, or what sex you have. Therefore, the Left is concerned that our children will grow up in safe families with room to make good choices. The budget of the government, based on the Right, Left and Christian People's Party for 2022, is a strong family budget with increased transfers to families with children and redeployments that clarify the crucial role of families for the children of society. Over the past eight years, the Left has helped to ensure that we have a historical commitment to the families of children and to give all children a good childhood. In particular, the effort has been aimed at strengthening the economy of families with children, children in families with persistent low incomes, better child protection and a further strengthening of the plan of escalation against violence and abuse, in order to mention something. I am pleased that our draft budget has a number of important measures to ensure that gender equality continues to progress. But it's a tough fight. It's about attitudes and major structural changes that it turns out are hard to turn around overnight. We still need to use new instruments. The left considers that the third division of parental leave and the historically high spring quota is one of the most important gender equality policies we have implemented in recent times. If people are to be equal at school, at work and in society, they also have to be equal at home. But the third division itself is not enough. That is why I am pleased that in our budget for 2022 we proposed that all fathers with earned right to parental leave should have the opportunity to take out eight weeks of parental leave regardless of whether their mother is in work or studying. In addition, there will be a free postponement of parental leave, introduced from October of this year, so that parents can decide for themselves when to take parental leave within the child's three-year-old age. It's an important grip for real equality. At the same time, it provides the basis for us to have a family policy that supports family life and helps families actually have the freedom and the ability to organize their own lives. All children and young people deserve a safe and healthy upbringing. Therefore, it has been important to increase several of the key support schemes, including: Child protection – which was increased for the first time in 20 years – and the one-off benefit, which has doubled since 2013. Free lead time has been introduced in kindergarten, reduced parental pay in SFO and free SFO for students with special needs from 5 to 7 steps and for families with low income in selected municipalities. The left wants all children to have the opportunity to participate in permanent organised activities regardless of their parents’ finances. In our budget for 2022, we proposed a national scheme for the leisure card, which meant that about a third of all children and young people in the target group receive a leisure card offer from the autumn of 2022. Participation in leisure activities is an important contribution to children and young people experiencing mastering, making friends and being included in society. That is why I think it is sad that this system is now completed abruptly and brutally by the sitting government. If all children are to have a safe upbringing, protected from violence and abuse, we depend on society to provide for those who have the most difficult things at home. That is why I am pleased that, in the reform of child protection, which comes into force next year, we give municipalities greater responsibility for child protection. With this reform, we want to strengthen local prevention work in the field of child protection. It is important that more children receive help at the right time — and not too late. This is why we believe that local adjustment of prevention is a good way to strengthen the professionalism and framework of the measures that must be taken in the municipality, along with all the other initiatives, where perhaps the competence effort is most central. I will end by saying that this is going to be a demanding fiscal year. I look forward to all the discussions we have to have about how we will also compensate families in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1426	One of the most important tasks that politicians have is to ensure the security of everyday life for people – the security of the roof over the head and food on the table, the security of a good and stable job to go to, the security of the future and the security of the family. In the last few years, we've seen a bad development where the inequalities in our country are increasing. The differences between those who have the least, and those who have the most, are growing, and to our great despair, the departed Solberg government has consistently used the wrong medicine to stop development. Great differences affect everyone, but the hardest hit is always the kids. That's why I'm very happy that we now have a new government, which has as one of its most important tasks to reduce the differences between people and give all children who grow up, the same good opportunities, regardless of whether you grow up on the east side or the west side, or whether you're the son of the reindeer or the daughter of the lawyer. That's why We lower the taxes on average income and increase them on high; it gives ordinary families greater breathing space, while giving us a better redistribution; we lower the prices of kindergartens and introduce free half-day seats at the SFO for all first-class seats; we strengthen lending schemes for sports and leisure equipment for children through the BUA; We provide full VAT compensation to voluntary associations and organisations, which will contribute to lowering the threshold for participation in sport and culture. In other words, there should be no doubt as to where the level of ambition lies for the new government. I started this article by talking about the importance of ensuring the security of everyday life to people. It's just the safety of the family and those we love, we're thinking about when we're starting with a long-lasting and important strengthening of child protection. Around our country, there are families who have different challenges in everyday life and who need the community to set up. Our ambitions in the Hurdal platform are clear. We're going to have a child's protection that's best for the child. This is why we are in favour of a quality reform aimed at ensuring appropriate organisation, increased competence and more time and confidence for employees to meet their children. More money for the municipalities, while we phase out the commercial players, means that every penny that goes to Child Protection should go to the service. It gives greater room for increased staffing, which gives us the opportunity to strengthen both the aftercare and the mental health care that we depend on for a successful child protection service. Unfortunately, for many, child protection can be seen as ‘secret services of the municipality’, which no one knows where, or what they actually do, people fear rather than see the benefits of. Let me be quite clear: child protection should help both children and parents who are in a difficult situation, a service that sees both children and parents, and who know the importance of solving everyday challenges at the lowest possible level. It requires efforts from both the State and the municipality to ensure transparency in the services provided by the protection of children, good training for the elected members of the public, and it requires that we dare to look at the service with a critical eye when it is needed. For it is no secret that Norway has taken criticism of its child protection, and has been convicted many times, at the latest this weekend, by the UN Commission on Human Rights for violations of human rights. It was with that background that we, in the opposition, made a proposal asking the then government to put down a sample to look at and improve the legal certainty of child protection. The representative Robstad, who was responsible for the state council at the time, put down a sample, but snuck in the mandate of the Stortinget explicitly asked for. It says something about how little serious the previous government took the legal certainty of vulnerable children. Fortunately, the new government with the State Council Top in the head has now started to correct the errors of the outgoing government, and the sample has now been given a new mandate in line with the actual decision of the Stortinget. The harvest's choices showed us that the country's population would have a new and fairer direction for our country. We're already doing well to meet the goals we set ourselves on the Hurdal platform, and we're going to use every single day to make life and everyday life as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1465	Families are different, and the Solberg government's proposal for a government budget suggests that we should be able to give all families a good starting point for family life, for good living conditions and for individuals to participate in society. To the right, it is important to recognise that children and families are different and have different needs and that family policies must be based on families and what they need. Everyday life and logistics can be demanding for many, but the families know best what works for them. That's why we have to give the families flexibility and the ability to make choices that suit their everyday lives. Then it's about strength, not control, the families. Then it's about the decisions on the organisation of family life that belong around the kitchen table, not around the King's table. Fortunately, most children in Norway grow up in a safe family with good economic conditions, and the inequality in Norway is little compared to other countries. At the same time, families have such low incomes that they limit their ability to participate fully in society. This affects the children and may have consequences for them for a long time to come. The government of Solberg took these challenges seriously and included: a separate strategy for children living in poverty – the first of its kind. The aim of the strategy was to reduce the differences between children and young people in their ability to participate and develop, and to prevent the legacy of living conditions challenges. The government of Solberg also presented its own cooperation strategy for children and young people in low-income families in order to provide better opportunities for young people to complete educational courses, participate in leisure activities and simply live safely and well. Growing up in a family of persistently low incomes often presents complex challenges, and therefore a broad and coordinated effort across departments and services is essential. This effort I hope the sitting government will continue. We know that for many young children, the time in life is the time when families are most in need of finance and the most concern about getting their ends to meet. Therefore, the government of Solberg provided for the first time over 20 years of age to increase child welfare for the smallest children. One-off support for parents was also considerably increased. It's important for all families, but it means the most to those who have the least in the past. The child's health was increased in three rounds, and it's used over 3 billion. kr on this. But perhaps more important: this historic promise for families with children totals NOK 8 200 more per year for children between 0 and 6, which undoubtedly means too many families and too many children. Although the combination of small children and the beginning of working life provides more economical for many families, it is not the case that families with older children do not need support. The leisure time of children and young people is often more organised today than before, and we know that older children often need more activities outside the home. These activities can often cost money. All children shall have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, regardless of the financial situation of their parents. Being part of the gang and being able to participate in the same arena as other kids is very important to know belonging and mastering, in order to develop social skills, get friendships and build networks. And that's very important to prevent alienation. Therefore, the government introduced the leisure card, which was intended to cover the fee for recreational activities for children aged 6 to 18. The scheme is now well under way in 24 municipalities. It was proposed to grant money so that it could be rolled out in several municipalities already now, and the plan was to start the roll-out of the scheme in all the municipalities of the country later this year, to ensure that all children, wherever they live and grow up, would have better opportunities for an inclusive and meaningful leisure time, so that all families would have the opportunity to allow their children and young people to participate in leisure activities. National grant scheme to include children and young people is also an important mechanism to ensure inclusion and participation, and its allocation has increased from approximately 100 million. in 2014 to nearly 360 MSEK. NOK 2021. In its proposal for a State budget, the Government of Solberg proposed to merge the three existing instruments into one and to increase the budgetary framework by 35 million. kr. This proposal has been continued by today's government, and I think it is very good. What is unintelligible is that today's government wants at the same time to scrap the card scheme without strengthening the national grant scheme equivalent or putting in place another system to compensate for it. I can understand that different governments, different parties, have different desires about how to achieve a goal. The goal of including children and young people and giving them good opportunities to participate in leisure activities I experience that we share cross-politically in this room. What I do not understand is that today's government is actually over 300 million. kr that would go to this in 2022, and also want to scrap the scheme completely in the autumn of 2022 – and without having anything in place that could actually replace the leisure card system. As I said, the draft budget by today's government represents an increase of 50 million. NOK, but this does not in any way compensate for the cut of more than 300 million. NOK – especially when these 50 million. kr shall be able to use both measures to replace the card and e.g.. for other purposes such as increased support for lending schemes, etc. The money's not going to go away. It helps little to say that you want to ensure that all children and young people are able to participate in leisure activities – without at the same time having a system that replaces the current system, without providing money to ensure that we reach the goal we say we are mutually agreed. This is simply to bring the families behind the light, and it's a very bad thing, because this affects children and young people's opportunities to get an inclusive and meaningful leisure time. Turning to another theme, which is also an important family policy theme: well-functioning families are what gives children security and belonging and gives them room for development and well-being. Parental support and good co-operation are therefore important elements of the Family Policy of the Right. The World Health Organisation considers parental support to be one of the main prevention measures to reduce violence, abuse and care failure. Parental guidance and support are not only about securing the child’s best interests for parents, but it is also a way to safeguard the child’s rights. The Solberg Government’s strategy ‘Safe Parents — Safe Children’ and the measures in the strategy were an important part of strengthening the parental support field. Family protection is also strengthened by over 190 million. kr under the government of Solberg. Many families may at different stages need support to be a good parent and to have a good relationship with each other. The Government of Solberg therefore established an offer of a life course for first-time parents and proposed to continue that offer and also the grant at the ordinary life courses. The pilot project on parental support for parents with teenagers was proposed to extend to several municipalities. It was therefore with great wonder that I registered that the government parties proposed to cut the aid for community action by nearly 15 million. kr. I understand that not all the money was spent this year because of the pandemic, and of course there may be challenges in 2022 too, but there may also be extra needs in 2022 precisely because we are in a pandemic that hits the vulnerable children extra hard, and also because fewer have been helped lately. Even greater was my amazement when I registered that the government parties in their budget agreement with SV cut the remaining almost 15 million. kr to the measures. It's erased. I understand that it may be difficult to get a budget up, we have also been in that situation, but completely cutting subsidies for actions so important to so many – not least for children and young people living in families with challenges – and measures that can actually prevent such challenges from happening are completely incomprehensible to me. Municipalities and family protection are the main actors in support of parents, but also the voluntary sector and other providers play an important role. Providers of such courses, as the non-profit foundation Modum Bad, says that when the grant is removed, the price of the course participation will have to be increased. This means that fewer people will be able to take advantage of the courses, fewer will be able to help prevent problems that could affect children and young people. I guess it's not that likely, but I have a little hope that these cuts were actually an accident at work, and that the government parties and SV will realize that it's not here they're going to save to get the budget going. This will affect some of the most vulnerable in our society, vulnerable children and young people. I therefore hope that the government parties and the SV will think about, and that these cuts will be reversed in the revised national budget. I hope that the government and SV will ensure that an unsocial cut like this does not stand. Family policy exists for all families, but we – as politicians – have an additional responsibility for the most vulnerable among us. I do not think that is the responsibility of the government parties and SV takes when they cut such an important offer as this. But in these nice Christmas seasons, although it's Korona, I hope you realize that this is something you have to undo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1501	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1506	I mentioned in my speech from the pulpit that the differences between people have increased, and unfortunately we now have a situation where 150 000 children grow up in homes and families where there is persistent poverty. In the draft budget from the right-wing government and in the remarks in the budget, we see that the Right, as you also mention from the speaker, will roll out the leisure card scheme for the whole country – when we know that there is a very few using it. Then my question is why does the Right doubt this system, when we know that so few people use it, and that it is contrary to what the Fjørtoft committee recommended in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1511	For the sake of order, the President makes it clear that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the counter-debatetant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1516	Unfortunately, it is a fact that many children live in families with persistent low incomes. There has been a long-term development, and I am sure that the representative Linge also knows the reason why this figure has increased; it is not least because of increased immigration in 2015. But the point is that we have to do something for those families, so that also their children and young people have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. What surprises me is that the Workers' Party here will agree to cut a scheme before the evaluation is completed. It has been started and it shows that some of the measures are working well. In some parts of the country as many as 80 pst. in the scheme, while in other parts there is a challenge in getting more people to participate. But the evaluation is precisely designed to find out how to make this scheme as effective as possible, and how to get more people to participate. Everyone acknowledges that it will take some time to make this work. So what surprises me is that the Workers' Party here is going to cut out a system that's very tight, without having another system in place first.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1523	Thank you, President, for reprimanding a rookie at the Stockholm pulpit like me. Thank you for your reply to the representative from the Right. I have to say that I believe that the government and the Labour Party have very good answers to what we should do. We are now increasing to full VAT compensation, and we are strengthening the inclusion scheme by 50 million. kr. Then the Fjørtoft committee was quite clear that they believe that the best scheme is to strengthen the voluntary nature, so that they have the opportunity to cover the attendance fee. When it doesn't extend, municipalities will also have a role to play in applying for grants, and that's exactly what we're going to expand now. That's what we think is a much better system, which will include the broader team of children and young people, not just the few that we see using the leisure card. That's why I wonder: doesn't the representative think it's better that we spend the big money on an offer everyone can take advantage of, and not just a small group?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1539	Yes, that's why this is a universal system. That's why this is a system that is now being evaluated, because we need to see how we can hit even more of those who need it most. I agree that the Labour Party has a good deal of good action, but it will not replace the leisure card system. The point is that we have to do something that makes those who need it the most get the support they need, and it doesn't say the evaluation doesn't. So I believe that increasing to full VAT compensation will help the sports teams, but as I thought I was in, this is a cooperation that must go through both the municipalities, the voluntary and the sport, and that is also what this scheme is intended to cover. The 50 million. kr as the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party and SV, is now increasing in terms of the inclusion scheme for children and young people, will in no way replace the 300 million. kr being cut. So my recommendation would have been first to find a system that would in that case replace, before cutting so drastically in a very good action for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1548	The representative was short on child protection, which is a very important part of the responsibility of our committee. In 2022, the child protection reform was implemented, which has been a major effort by the government of Solberg. There has been a lot of uncertainty around the municipalities about the way it is implemented, whether there has been enough money and not least enough time to do so in a good way. Now, in our budget, we have ensured that they will at least get enough time. We have given them one more year during the transitional period. But still there is uncertainty out there, and I wonder if the representative is busy working to actually get much better opportunities to implement the scheme than the budget that the Solberg government provided for this period would have given.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1553	I think almost have to invoke what I've heard from all the state councils say over the past few weeks – I've only been in this committee a few weeks, and I haven't got a full overview of the field. Furthermore, child protection is not my responsibility in the committee, so it is possible that I do not give the representative an adequate answer, but I believe the work done to establish a new child protection law to reform child protection has been incredibly important. A great deal of effort has been made to help municipalities implement this, not least in terms of focusing on child protection skills, on good child protection education. I see a lot of people are already going on. My own municipality was one of the worst on child protection in the past. We had a lot of things. Some of them we are also convicted for in the EMD, and this year we were assigned to the best municipality in the country on child protection. So my impression is that many municipalities are already doing well. It may be that you need this one year the government now gives them, and I don't want to oppose it directly, but my colleague might be able to answer better.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1560	Thank you very much for your answer. It is good that there are municipalities that are well running. I've also visited a part that is, and then there's another that fears the future situation. I am pleased to hear that we will then work together to improve this situation. Something Stortinget was 100 pst. agreed on last year's chronology debate was that we should set up an expert committee to look at the legal certainty of the entire child protection system. When the expert committee came up, as my colleague from the Labour Party pointed out, the mandate was not that it should look at the legal security of the entire child protection system; it should look at something else. Although the representative has not been in the Committee for so long, I am nevertheless interested in hearing the views of the representative on whether there is a proper way to deal with such an important decision in this House.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1567	I've started to read up on child protection, and I've also read up on the expert committee, and I see that it's probably going to come out very well of the assessments they're going to make. There is no doubt that we in Norway have had a good deal of challenges with our child protection, so I will support all the measures that will allow us to get a child protection that works better. To what the representative asks about concretely, I am simply a little uncertain about the decision it is here in Stortinget. As the representative is probably familiar with, we're happy to follow our own committees, so unfortunately I haven't heard that discussion, but I promise I'll get involved in this in the future, and I look forward to working with the representative to improve child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1574	I think it is good that the representative from the Right speaks well about the children and not least the families. However, I would like to challenge the Right a little bit, as the Progress Party and I have received a number of enquiries regarding the third part of the parental leave. What I'm asking about then is whether the Right – now that they're no longer in government – could think of supporting the Progress Party in dropping the third of the parental leave, so that families get more freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1579	The short answer to that, and I am sure that the representative of the Progress Party is familiar with, is that there we have changed our attitude, including in our programme, to move away from a clear third of the parental leave in order to find a better distribution for families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1589	Although it is currently demanding for most, with high electricity prices and new closures due to the pandemic, fortunately Norway remains one of the world’s best countries to live in. We are cutting high on various international indices, the welfare state is well-developed, and values such as equality, freedom of expression, trust and tolerance are central and contribute to good democracy. But we have to work actively to keep it that way, and then it's important that the population feels that the nation state exists for them, and that the taxes and charges they pay go for good purposes and not for tax cuts for the richest or right in the pocket of large international companies. It is important that everyone has access to the same public services wherever in their country of residence, and it is important that we have welfare systems that function as fully as possible. It is also such a balanced and trust-based policy that the new government wants to pursue over the next four years, as is evident in the Hurdal platform – and also in our draft budget together with SV, where we ourselves in just a few weeks have been able to make adjustments that show the right way. We have certainly not had time and opportunity to make as thorough and comprehensive assessments and priorities as in a normal budgetary process, but that there is now a new course, noticed – not least in the case of the municipal economy. The municipalities, which are so important for the provision of services to people, get 2.5 billion. kr more to go with after our adjustment, which would clearly have a lot to say for the service offer. In particular, it will have an impact on the possibilities of municipal child protection to implement the new child protection reform in 2022. Fortunately, the government in the budget also gives the municipalities an additional year to change in connection with the reform, which is absolutely necessary. We are strengthening both the economy of municipalities and, not least, the economy of families receiving social assistance, by ensuring in this budget that child welfare is kept outside the social welfare system. In our draft budget we also have a number of other measures that will make everyday life easier for families with children, not least those who do not have such good advice. We reduce the maximum price in kindergartens, the state comes up with its own bet on resource-intensive users, the spectacle support comes back, the work on a dental reform is started, and we put free half-day space in the SFO for first-class ratings. We're strengthening the budgets of the Children's and Youth's organisations by $4 million. kr and gives voluntary activity and sport 150 million. kr and full VAT compensation – a good for all children and young people. And we're expanding and putting a total of 85 million. kr extra in the scheme for the inclusion of children and young people – not just 50 million. kr, as the right said here. This goes to lending schemes such as the BUA and the Tax Chamber. It can go to quota boxes that the municipalities have around, or to other good measures, such as various leisure card solutions, which are already available and used by many high-tech municipalities that hit the children who need it the most – and far better than the leisure card that the previous government used to roll out. The bureaucratic and, not least, extremely costly measure – we are talking about 1.7 billion. Kr – if we were in the Center Party initially a little more positive, but it turns out that it would take a long time to get in place, extensions by the government of Solberg, will still deal with only a few municipalities, and neither have children and young people been shown to make use of the leisure card where it is now available. 50 million. NOK remain on the plan in 2021. We therefore believe that we can spend the money on much more accurate measures than this universal system. For the government, there is no wish for a development in which an increasing proportion of public welfare services are owned and operated by commercial groups. Rather, we want to strengthen Community solutions and work to maximise responsibility and operation in the public and non-profit sector. That's why we're strengthening institutional child protection by 150 million. kr next year, both because it is needed and also as part of a process of conversion in which public and non-profit-making take over large commercial groups in this field. For children in the field of child protection, good coordination and sufficient competent staff are needed, something to which the competitive tendering process and the focus on the profits of the large child protection groups do not contribute well enough. The development of even better child protection is, moreover, a main effort in the Hurdal platform. Since foster homes are the most commonly used care services when children are unable to live at home, the recruitment and development of good, stable foster homes will also be an important task in the future. In the Hurdal platform we prioritise foster homes, and we are working on a new foster home law. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to take the opportunity to invite all the parties at Stortinget to contribute constructively to its work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1608	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1613	It is interesting to hear the views of the representative of the Central Party on universal arrangements versus targeted, because the arguments go a little bit in both directions. The platform and the representative’s presentation underline the importance of universal solutions being what solves the greatest of all, while the first great grip the representative is involved in is to remove a universal system under test before actually obtaining its results. One of the steps taken is to remove the proposal to extend the parental deduction, which means that the children’s families today do not necessarily get better off with the alternative, as the representative claims. So my question is, will the representative make targeted arrangements, which actually hit those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1621	It is a very important goal for our policy that it is social, geographical and economical, and it is also very important for us – now that the differences have become bigger here in the country – to meet the families and the children who have less to travel with than others. That's why it's clear that universal arrangements that actually work, we're very concerned about supporting under, as long as they hit where they're going to. But take, for example: the leisure card: it does not pass well enough. It's a universal order where we're going to spend up to $1.7 billion. kr, and then it can go to a lot of young people who really don't need it. What we need to spend that money on is much more targeted measures, such as strengthening the system of measures to borrow equipment, where you can apply for quota funds and include sport to a much greater extent, which the Fjørtoft Committee was very concerned about working much better – or also other schemes. For example, you can apply for a card that already exists. It turns out that that's a wiser way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1626	I could have had some understanding of the way in which to argue if the representative had contributed to the fact that the money that was going to go to the leisure card had actually gone to arrangements that the representative thought had made better. But they don't. That money is being spread to other things. There is only a small sum of what goes into the arrangement specifically pointed out by the representative himself. I'm going to say that what we have to try to do is to make arrangements that ultimately benefit people, and then it's very important to make arrangements that actually make it that way. That's why my next question is: one of the areas where there is the greatest density of children growing up in low-income families is the city we're in now, in Oslo. How will the representative ensure that, in the future, we have arrangements that make even better for the children who live in this city and are struggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1631	Thank you for the question. When we cut into the leisure card scheme, we save some money – besides, it was not used very much either, it said 50 million. So let's add another cent. We're using it on a lot of measures that will take children who have economic challenges across the country, but also in Oslo, as half a day in the SFO, like keeping child welfare outside the social welfare system, like reducing the maximum price in the kindergarten. In addition, we in the Center Party have been engaged in area lift. We have strengthened this extra in budgets. It's an area that I know the Hurdal platform is also setting high, and we're going to follow it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1638	I have to start by saying that universal arrangements make both those who need it, and those who don't need it – that's why they're universal. My question to the representative is about child protection, where 100 million have been put. NOK, plus 50 million. kr in the agreement with SV, to purchase or build up child protection. The class struggle today has a major issue of child protection, where they include: states that commercial companies have an increasing proportion of the institutional provision for children and young people with complex needs and that they are the ones with a high degree of competence. The question to the representative is: how does the representative view the use of this appropriation? Should it be used to build new institutions, to buy up institutions – or how can it be seen that the transformation from those with the skills and children today to the public is going to take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1645	Tenders for part of the institutional child protection system must now be launched. That's why it's important to get some money so that we can start rebuilding the public offer pretty quickly, so that they can also take part of it, because we're in a transformation process now. If it was up to the Center Party, this could have happened quickly, but as the representative is here, it can't. We have a great responsibility to the children, and to the extent also to the employees who work in private commercial child protection, in doing this properly. The size has for many years been waiting for the government of which the representative was part to initiate a process, which has been decided here, of building up the commercial part of the institution's protection and lifting up the public and non-profit sector. It hasn't happened, so someone has to start, and now we're about to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1652	As I said in my post, the previous government put forward a strategy called Safe Parents – Safe Children, just to strengthen the parental support field. The measures of this strategy have been aimed at increasing the equivalence of the offer across the country – that all municipalities should be able to offer quality and knowledge-based parental support measures and strengthen cooperation between different sectors and services on parental support. What I was in, too, was how much my amazement was when I saw that the government, with the Center Party, chose to cut all the support measures into the family protection course and life course – also for first-time parents. So my question to the representative is, what reflections have been made when you do this? You don't see that this will hit the very most vulnerable among us, and what is it that you intend to replace this with? I can't figure it out from the government's budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1661	Thank you for the question. Unfortunately, this project, which was established under the government of Solberg, showed that it was not working optimally. Only half the sum was used for it last year. Besides, there were only some places where you got the offer. Although the representative points out that other municipalities would be able to participate in the scheme in the long term, it is certainly not a scheme that will be an offer for people throughout the country. For the Central Party and the Workers' Party, it is far more important that we continue to strengthen the parent race, because there they have that kind of offer. So you have health services in the same area. There was a NOU on the parental pension under the government of Solberg. It was not working with it while that government was in charge. We have to do that now, and then this kind of need will be mapped, and there will be a look at how they can best be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1670	The representative of the Centre Party has at least previously shared mine and the High Engagement of the Advance Party in the matter of co-ordination. Now we were able to have a decision here in the Chamber that you wanted the matter to come back, but also that you should be able to do something concrete. Then you push the work with new child law in front of you. You've been talking about a human selection. In its budget, the Progress Party has given priority to, inter alia: the MannsForum organisation to focus on a very serious societal issue. I wonder where the centre party's involvement in the co-operation bid case is today, and when can we expect to see the results of that work?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1679	This is, as the representative pointed out, something in which the Central Party and the signatories have engaged a great deal. The Hurdal platform says that we should work actively on this issue, and we have not just said that we should put down a human selection; we have put down – or we are about to – and we have allocated money to it. So it's going well, and then it's clear that cohabitation is going to be part of the work. It is natural that we wait for the law before we conclude very clearly. But I can assure the representative that I am not going to put that ball to death, because it is so important. There have been so many revelations, for example. in the media, demonstrating that this is a major challenge. So there are a lot of reasons to take, and I understand that we have to deal with this in a good way, but at least we have to make sure that the decision in Stortinget is followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1684	Then the cord shift is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1689	For the Advancement Party, it is essential to talk about the freedom of choice of families when discussing family policy. That's why I also had a call to the Right to wind up the third of the parental leave in a previous row – which many brought with me. We see today that very many women feel more or less forced to go out on unpaid leave, which serves neither the women, the families nor – perhaps the least – the children. I hope that more people in the Chamber think carefully about, even outside the budgetary processes, when, in the year that comes, we will deal with issues relating to the families. We have to regulate less when it comes to families – no more. Otherwise, an important effort for the Progress Party in the child and family field has been the effort against violence and abuse. I have challenged various state councils, especially the Minister of Justice – who is not here today – on what the government actually wants to do, perhaps especially for the very least. The Progress Party proposes, in its alternative budget, to strengthen its response to violence and abuse by 100 million. kr. We know that we are alone about it today, but I still have a hope that it is something that the new government will also give priority to. If there is not necessarily money in this budget – which is a little disappointing – it is allowed to hope for in the next round. The representatives from the government parties are drawing attention to the issue of child protection. I am very sceptical about the attitude you have towards private actors. For the Progress Party, the most important thing has always been that families receive help, and not least that the child is given the best possible help – not who provides the services. That's why it's very worrying to see how you talk about, among other things. private actors in the field of child protection when talking about this. In this context, the Progress Party wishes to further strengthen the competence of child protection. We think it's important, no matter who delivers the services. That is why we have a proposal in our alternative budget that we should do this by 40 million. kr next year. The representative of the Central Party spoke, among others: about foster homes – if I don’t remember completely wrong – and I think that’s good. There are many things to address when it comes to foster homes. In all municipalities there has been a great need for foster homes and for people to set up and open their homes. Then I have a special emphasis – which can also be read in the budget position – that goes on this with the sibling in foster homes. Although perhaps not everyone was in favour of the Progress Party's comment on this, I really hope that this is something an overall committee can stand behind, as we know that this means far too many. I have criticized the new government in a lot of surfaces because they removed the leisure card before it was rolled out. I think it's incredibly stupid, but it's okay, now they've prioritised that. We have different priorities in our budgets, as well as that of, among other things. forces BUA by 15 million. kr. There is now a matter of health monitoring. It was a little uncertain whether this government would present the matter or not, but now it has at least come. This is also the priority of the Progress Party in its budget. I think it is a little strange that the government parties do not add more money to this, as there has at least been an express position in this Chamber in the past that everyone agrees that this is going to take place. But then the money should also be clear, and here there is something missing, as I can see in the recordings we have received in the budget questioning. Otherwise, I can briefly say that the Progress Party continues to cut the waste. We cut, among other things. in one-off social assistance and cash support for the next year in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1707	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1712	In the last period, we focused a lot on the problem of increasing differences and increasing numbers of children growing up in homes with poor finances. Minister Ropstad’s answer was then the leisure card – it was supposed to solve all the problems – and I am a little surprised that the Progress Party has taken the same line. When I go through the budget of the Progress Party, I can't see any other specific measures to reduce child poverty than 15 million. I'm going to spend $85 million on BUA. kr. So I am interested in hearing what the representative looks at and wants to communicate as other actions from the Progress Party to reduce child poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1717	It's very simple. Firstly, the Progress Party is in favour of a more stringent immigration and integration policy. In fact, immigration is one of the main causes of growing child poverty in Norway. It shows all the numbers, all the research and all the reports we get. Bad integration doesn't do anything for these families either. The most important thing, and the Progress Party has been the most obvious, is actually getting people to work. That's all, the most important thing we can do to combat child poverty. And not only can you read in the family chapter about child poverty, but there are other subsidies, for example. in culture, where we have said that we prioritise children and young people, and not necessarily fine culture. Lower taxes and taxes in general also provide more money to families with children. – So it’s just reading the entire budget of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1726	Thanks for the answer. If this is the case that the Progress Party is very concerned that the lack of integration is the main reason why we have many families with low incomes, I would like to know what the representative thinks is good action in the budget of the Progress Party to significantly improve integration, especially for these families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1731	First of all, as I say, it's about how many we accept. For those we accept, we have an obligation to integrate. It is then about offering within language and education, and that you actually have the capacity to receive those who are coming. But I would like to say again that for these families, too, it is also about the general tax burden. And it's a little tempting to comment on it when you're challenged by the Center Party on just this, because you now know that people get power bills like this down in the mailbox just before Christmas. Here the Center Party has drawn its legs, along with the government, and created a system that doesn't even hit those who live in housing camps and communities – one million common people, one would think, even low-income families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1738	It's a fact that many men, fathers, don't take out more parental leave than what's a minimum. Before it was regulated, a lot of people didn't take leave at all. We know that equal parental leave is important both for the relationship between fathers and children and for equality between women and men. I wonder if the representative, Mr Hemdal, believes that the relationship between fathers and children is less important than the relationship between mothers and children, unless this is an important measure of equality, and even if she believes that fathers do not care for their children as well as mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1743	That was a very good question, because someone has stood on the barricades for fathers' rights, it's just me and the Progress Party. This is the case of co-conspiracy, which I have challenged the representative's budget partner, the Central Party, in the past, a very good example of. Some people say this is an important equality tool. After the feedback we get, when we see that there are more and more women taking out unpaid leave, I have to say that my conclusion is the opposite. I have to say that the most important thing for families today is to have the opportunity to choose for yourself. You can remove this coercion from the politicians in here, allow families to decide for themselves, and then fathers can take more leave in some cases, and mothers in some cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1750	Since I got an answer to my question about working for children in low-income families and it was pointed to good integration policy, I just have to refer to the Advance Party budget, where they choose to cut 873 million. SEK in integration grants, 200 million. SEK in grants for the housing of lone minor asylum seekers, SEK 144 million. SEK in grants for integration work under the auspices of civil society and non-governmental organisations and EUR 65,7 million. kr i cut to Norwegian adult immigrant training. For me, this does not seem to be a very great effort in the integration field for, among other things. a child in low-income families. What kind of comment does the representative have about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1755	Well, it's just reading the rest of what's in our budget, among other things. as regards the arrival of minor asylum seekers, on which the representative was involved. The estimates — and at least with the coronary apathy we now have — show lower numbers for arrivals both on family reunification, single minor asylum seekers and asylum seekers in general. So there's a very important entry here, plus that there are also other types of immigrants who don't come to Norway as much today as before. That is why it is quite natural for us to budget for this with lower expenditure. When it gets less, there will also be fewer expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1765	The fight against poverty and increased disparities is our main priority and shall be a red thread in everything we do. This includes the fight for families and children's growth and everyday life. An important tool for improving the daily life of children is child-care. Child protection has remained still for too many years, and SV believes it is now high time to increase child protection for all children, not just for the smallest. That is why, in our alternative budget, we are proposing to increase child-restraint for children from 6 to 18 years of age and to introduce sibling supplements in order to specifically strengthen the multiple-child families, and we are also proposing a minimum benefit in the 2G parental killers in order to provide parents with weak social ties. In this budget agreement, we are pleased that we have made sure to stop shortening the child benefit for them on social assistance, with a change in the law on compensation to the municipalities from 1 September. I get a lot of feedback a day from local government representatives around the country who are now getting a hit to stop the curtailment from 1 January, because they see that this is coming. This, together with a number of other balancing measures in the labour and social budget, the education budget and the health budget, will make a big difference that many families with poor advice will notice. The incentive scheme to include children and young people is one of those schemes that will help more children and young people to participate in leisure activities, by allowing municipalities to seek support for reduced participant fees and to extend the free lending schemes for leisure equipment. This item is now increased by a total of 85 million. kr. In this budget, too, we have increased basic support for the children's and youth organisations, which are a pillar of democracy, as well as being a haven where children and young people can follow their own interests and decide on their own everyday lives. The government and SV agree that child protection should be available to help children, not to make money. In this budget, we strengthen the protection of state children in order to increase the capacity and competence of child protection. We also agree to bet on long-term agreements with non-profit actors. We have a goal to phase out the commercial players, because all the money is going to the children, not to the profit of the companies. But we realize that this is not done overnight, and that we have to make sure that the children have a proper offer all the way. SV also proposed in our alternative budget grants to user councils where the children are represented, and a programme for children’s participation and knowledge of child protection. We believe it is important for children to be heard. We're going to work on this. This is also a good budget for equality and non-discrimination and for the fight against racism and hateful expressions. Here we strengthen both women's and men's rights, with increased funding for women's organisations and for the creation of a human body, and we also strengthen regional equality work. Some believe that we are equal in Norway and that there is no need for action or markers. Some will even abolish women's day of March 8. Yes, we have come a long way in Norway, but we still see that there are still major differences and challenges. We saw that not least when we got the tax lists here by day, where only 5 out of 100 at the income stop are women. We also know that women work much more part-time than men, and that so-called typical women's diseases have largely lower status than other diseases. We also know that women are much more often exposed to sexual abuse and violence. It is a major societal problem and can provide the major health challenges that are at risk over a long period of time. We are therefore pleased that we are strengthening the budget for the incest and rape centres and the crisis centre secretariat. We reverse the Solberg Government's proposal to remove the subsidy scheme for organisations working against racism, discrimination and hateful expressions, and strengthen the subsidies to these important organisations. In addition, we also strengthen the gender and sexual diversity grant scheme. SV believes it is important to see all these measures in the context. It is about combating discrimination, violence and threats to everyone, regardless of gender, gender identity, sexual orientation and ethnicity. It's about the fight for a smoker and more inclusive society. The voters have given us a strong red-green mandate. Through the budgetary negotiations between the government and the Swedish Government, we have come to a more expansive and redistributive direction for the country. But we have more in stock. In the SV's alternative state budget, we have several strong investments that we did not get through in this round, but fortunately, there will be more budget negotiations in the future. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1794	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1799	Now we have already had some rounds related to the leisure card, which is obviously something that politically distinguishes us relatively in the middle, a belief – until I collapsed into the SV party program today and found that they had an election vow that was about further developing the leisure card. All children and young people will receive a universal card that provides discounted or free access to leisure activities, cultural offerings and participation in volunteering — a cracking good programme formulation, from my point of view. The question is where this has gone off for SV in the negotiations with the government, which obviously disagrees very much with both the civil parties and SV that this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1804	Thank you very much for this slightly demanding question. After all, we have developed a policy in which we believe that good universal arrangements are important for children and young people's participation in leisure activities. After I got here at Stortinget a few months ago, I have at least learned that there are challenges to the leisure card regarding how it has been used, and the costs of it. In view of that, we have not been so hard on it to continue now, because we believe there are other schemes that can better ensure that those who really need it the most get access to leisure activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1809	I want to complain about it, as others have done. The end of such a short period of time with so few municipalities is a sin. A little over to this with universal versus targeted measures: In a previous succession of lines, the representative Sem-Jacobsen argued that it was challenging with the leisure card, because it was universal and not all. Then my question is about some of the steps that SV and the government are now doing in the budget, for example. free SFO for the first step and to reduce the nursery price by a few hundred patches for all. On questions to the Ministry of Finance, they replied that 41 000 children are not taken by the reduction in kindergarten prices because they already have moderation schemes introduced by the government of Solberg, such as free core time or that they pay less than 6 pst. of income — very accurate schemes. What is the representative's view of the type of targeted action versus the introduction of schemes for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1818	Thank you for the question. In SV we are engaged in schemes that allow everyone to participate. In the case of the leisure card, it's not the universal nature of what's problematic, at all. We are absolute in order for schemes to be universal, and this is about not stigmatising individual groups of children and young people. It is not the universal that is problematic, because we believe that this is important in many contexts, especially in terms of a measure such as child welfare, which we believe is a very important means of raising families above the poverty line.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1825	SV stresses that the fight against child poverty is one of their main priorities, and the representative probably has many good suggestions on how to combat this, and others that I may not agree with as much. However, I wonder whether the representative acknowledges that high levels of immigration and poor integration are, in fact, an important reason why child poverty in Norway is increasing, and how many SV representatives believe that Norway should be able to receive every year at the same time as the main focus is on combating child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1830	Thank you very much for your question. It is not that people have migrated to Norway, in themselves making them poor. It is true that there are more immigrant backgrounds that are struggling with the economy, but it is more a class question than an immigration question. These include: about how we can get people to work. And then I believe that in a rich country like Norway, we cannot stand to see that so many people in the world are fleeing and suffering distress. We have to take our part in helping the people who are suffering in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1839	I want to give tribute to the representatives from SV who have received an important point that shortening child welfare when you receive social assistance is no longer possible for the municipalities. It's an important fight that we've had with SV about. Me and the Christian People's Party have been concerned with increasing child welfare as an important measure especially against child poverty. We landed on a model that went on that we increased the child's pension for the youngest kids, up to 6 years, and then we had the leisure card, which was to be stepped up, among other things. in the budget for next year. The vision was that every kid would get £2,000 each they could spend on the leisure activity they wanted, and maybe sit in the classroom and discuss what activity they were going to spend on, and get the collective pressure they might not get from home. What does SV think now, when you don't go on with your holiday card, and you don't give up your child's pension? Can the representative say a little about what she thinks about poverty and the important effort I think we started with, both child welfare and leisure cards?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1848	Thank you very much to the representative for a very good question. In our alternative budget, we have an increase in child benefit for children from 6 to 18 years of age. We are very pleased with the increase in the Christian People's Party for the youngest children, and we believe that it is important now to strengthen the children who are over 6 years old. It's about not getting cheaper with older children. There are often major challenges related to equipment pressures and comparisons with other and larger out-of-home activities. So we believe that it is an important solution to get in place, and we will continue to fight for that increase in future budgetary negotiations with the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1855	The cord shift is therefore complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1860	The children's and family budget is one of the most important, if not the most important, budget we adopt here on the Stortinget. It is the budget that is set on the young, who are betting on the families, on those who need an extra hand, and on those who are extra vulnerable – because no families are equal, and no kids are equal. Different times require different solutions. That's why it's so important that the policy that's being pursued is multiplicity, so that it hits as much as possible, because life isn't always going to be what we thought and thought for ourselves. As a granddaughter, I think everyday life can be a bit hectic and hesitant in between. But we're two parents, and we have two children. The parents who do a job for two alone, I admire, and they're really some everyday heroes. The start we give our kids has so much to say about what life will be like for them later. That's why we in the Christian People's Party have fought and increased child welfare by $8,200 for the youngest kids. That's why we have introduced the leisure card, to give children and young people the opportunity to participate in leisure activities, because we know it's so important to young people. That's why we have invested in a life course for first-time parents, and that's why we fight for cash support and freedom of choice. We always invest the big money in the little kids, whether we're in position or in opposition, because what's good for the kids is also good for society. It is very good in the red-green budget that we in the Christian People's Party also agree with. Among other things, I think it is good that a stronger staff in the institutions of child protection. It's important, especially for vulnerable children. But to be honest, there are other things I'm jumping over – yes, that I'm directly disappointed in. They cut in the cash support, and my fear is that it's just a start because one wants to cut much more. They tickle on in life offers for first-time parents, an offer that is so important in the time when many changes take place in a short time. Then it's so important that as a society we set up to give parents the tools to be there for each other and for the little one. It's about prevention. It's not to cut the parental deduction that means most for those who have a low income. Not least, they tick the card, the card to ensure that all children and young people are able to participate in leisure activities regardless of the size of their mother’s or father’s wallet — a card that gives freedom and independence. No child or youth shall be required to hold a lua in his hand and ask to participate in a leisure activity. You just take this away with a pen stroke. That makes me sad, because at the top of the whole thing they also cut off the gift of volunteering, they actually halve it from 50,000 to 25 000 kroner. It should perhaps not surprise anyone that the kids and families are far down on the priority list when the Central Party and the Workers' Party are in government. Although I actually thought it was common people's turn now, unfortunately it is not common families or ordinary children's trip this time. Because at the top of it the government cuts into several schemes for volunteering and culture. Increased VAT compensation is good, but overall it is limited to volunteering – both halving the tax credit scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations and removing the gift enhancement scheme and leisure cards. The reason for the removal of the gift-enhancing scheme is that they don't want to benefit private, but there's government blocking, because it's volunteering and culture losing, it's not private. The time has come for the government to understand the consequences of its ideological struggle. Many organisations report that the cut governments are now doing will lead to a dramatic reduction in the gift income of their work. It means cutting the supply of children and young people, to disadvantaged people, to culture and volunteering – those who need some extra help. It's sad. The government believes that the proposals will smooth out differences, but in reality they will have the opposite effect. The tax deduction means very little for those who have high incomes. Thus, the cut contributes to increments, not less, differences, because it means less gifts and less effort for those who need the help. That the Workers' Party thinks in this way, to me, is not surprising, but that the Center Party accepted it, I don't understand. The fact that many choose to prioritize parts of their income for charitable purposes is a good thing for society as a whole. It's not that it's just those with high incomes who want to give a gift, the joy of giving is universal, that's what we as society should facilitate and not least value. So we were to adopt the starting point that existed from the Solberg government, that would have given the best budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1880	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1885	I had to go down here and take a line, because the exaggerations of the representative were so powerful. He claims that our budget goes beyond children and young people. But we're moving, for example. gift-enhancing funds to the very cultural base wall and not to large institutions. When he says we've halved the tax deduction on gifts for volunteering, it sounds like we've halved half the sum. We've halved 8 pst. And then he goes through VAT compensation and says it doesn't matter. It has been the main requirement of volunteering — sport and voluntary culture — as long as the representative has been the Council of State. He has not chosen to enforce it. In addition, we have reduced the maximum price in kindergartens. We've subtracted it from social welfare. Yes, you know what that is. The glasses stand is back. We're starting a dental reform. How can he claim that this is a bad policy for children and young people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1892	The removal of the gift-enhancing scheme may result in significantly fewer revenues for volunteering, for culture and for vulnerable young people. So those words are very good for me. In terms of VAT compensation, I gave tribute for just that. It wasn't meant to germinate. We have been busy stepping it up gradually, and we did so when we were in government. But the sum of what the government chooses to prioritize on this is less than the Solberg government added. So, collectively, it's sadly cut. For the leisure card, it's a cut that will result in 205 million. SEK-300 million. kr. A further escalation would mean an enormous amount. So my fear is that instead of the kids and the kids getting 2 000 kroner that they can manage themselves, one spits in even more money. We have tried that year after year, and this representative has helped to contribute to it in previous governments. We have done so, but this has not resulted in young people getting into leisure activities. So the gift enhancement scheme was an innovation – a innovation – which unfortunately ends now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1901	The intention of the former government council and the previous government with the leisure card was good. That's what I said from the pulpit. We were interested to follow it up precisely because there are many municipalities that have leisure card schemes. But I've been involved in those arrangements, and it turns out that they hit and are much more tailor-made for the children who need the most. Now, when we add to the scheme of 85 million integration grants. kr, it's just the beginning. Because there is a kind of system where you can also apply for money for a quota box, which will be much more concrete and which sports want. The feather toft committee warned against the leisure card scheme in its time. So I hope that the representative in the future will be able to support similar measures that are much more accurate. To spend 1.7 billion. kr on this when we don't know how it hits, would be galimatias. So to the gift enhancement scheme, and I repeat again: I hope the representative knows how it is funded. It has now taken 200 million. kr annually from the cultural base wall of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1908	And then it has resulted in huge revenues again, which means a lot more, for the same organizations. But in the case of the leisure card, it's true that there's some cards around the municipalities, so there's a lot of good about it. But a lot of it depends on you having to go to Nav to get the card. Many of the offers you receive are, for example: for cinema or other things – something that is positive. It was supposed that the card would go to regular, recurring activities, which would just give you the opportunity to get the social mastery and the social network. Then we've been through a pandemic in the last few years. There's a lot of volunteering and activities that haven't worked optimally, and it could be that the leisure card should have been plastered on. But it was a universal order. Then you can discuss whether it is right that it is universal or not, but then you can discuss child welfare. There are many other arrangements to discuss. However, the universality of this system, which, yes, cost a lot of money, gave the opportunity that all children would have it. You could sit together and discuss it in a completely different way, for example. at school, and this would contribute to the participation of more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1915	It's a new role for the representative, but the matter I'm going to talk about, he knows well. This is about the fight against violence and abuse against children, where both I and the representative of the Christian People's Party have been strongly engaged on behalf of the children. That is why I think it was very sad this year when the old government presented its draft budget, because the Progress Party has, on two occasions, previously negotiated funds for children's protection agencies through the nursery package to the Stine Sofies Foundation, so that children of kindergarten age can receive training, and not least the employees, so that they can reduce and prevent child abuse. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not prioritize this work now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1920	It may be the freedom of the new role, but I just have to say that I didn't know what had happened. I guess it's in the Ministry of Knowledge's budget, if I don't remember completely wrong. There is at least one post I fully agree that is an important job. I have seen some of the work myself, which means training and the ability to detect violence and abuse in a very good way. So this is something that the Christian People's Party absolutely supports. I want to work with the representative to get back the support if it is correct that it has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1925	Yeah, that's it. Something can be in the Ministry of Knowledge, but at least we have a proposal to add 10 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for your excellent report. But I take the floor and hope that at least the next time the Progress Party will put forward proposals to support this important project, you can agree on it and hopefully also manage to get other parties to do this. Because it means an incredible amount out there in the municipalities for all the employees who work in both public and private kindergartens, parents and not least children. So I thank you for being more kind to our proposal next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1930	Thanks for the challenge. I have been kind to this before, and I have been involved and contributed to this being part of the negotiations once the Progress Party has proposed it, so I agree. So I just want to use the opportunity to also expand the perspective, because violence and assault are sadly phenomena that have only increased in strength. We know that a lot has happened digitally. It means that this is a field that needs further work, and I look forward to seeing that the government has announced that they will come up with even more measures. They have well mentioned an escalation plan also in their platform, and we did a lot in this area in common. So my challenge is that we can stand together in this work and make different proposals in the next few years – both in detecting violence and abuse in kindergartens and schools, and not least in getting an even better offer at the children's homes to uncover the investigation and ensure that even more people get follow-up and assistance afterwards. For this is a field I am burning for, although unfortunately I am not in this committee during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1937	It was a good answer to something that was not a question, but then the line change is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1942	The best thing for a child is the community's responsibility. Facilitating children and families in the big community is an enormously important political area. A secure family life and a secure childhood provide the basis for most of the others. The new government will strengthen the universal well-being of children and young people and reduce differences in society. The schemes should help to make the day go up for families with children and to combine work and family life. The parental leave shall be extended. We're going to make arrangements for different types of family, for the best of the child. Cash support is continued as an offer until the child is 18 months old. The government will introduce a childcare facility for families with children between 18 and 24 months of age waiting in kindergarten. The babysitting service should be cheaper to make it more accessible. The government will strengthen its fathers' independent rights in the parental leave scheme. How child protection is organised plays a role in the extent to which we can sustain vulnerable children and their families. Child protection shall provide security and assistance to children and families who need it. For this reason, the work on child protection is important, and there is a great deal of space in the Hurdal platform. The new government will halt developments towards commercialisation and fragmentation in the child protection sector. Legal security and participation shall be strengthened. The child protection selection process, which has been set down by the previous government, is now subject to a change in the mandate to review the legal certainty of all aspects of child protection. Today, many of the children with the largest and most complex child protection needs receive institutional space directed by large commercial suppliers. This is what the government will change. In 2022, we are prioritizing a commitment to precisely institutional child protection, to build up the public supply of the most vulnerable children and secure non-profit growth. The Child Protection Reform will enter into force in 2022. Local authorities are given more professional and financial responsibility. If we are to succeed in a better child-restraint, the municipalities must be happy with the child-restraint reform. It is in the municipalities that you can put in early effort, where families can get early help, where you can prevent, prevent and detect care failure. It's for 2022 suggested 1.3 billion. kr in the transfer from the State to the municipality in connection with the child protection reform. And the new government will extend the transition period from two to three years to reduce the economic risk of the conversion. An increase in the municipal budget of 2.5 billion. kr will also be able to contribute to ensuring a good implementation of the child protection reform. Outreach among children and young people is a societal challenge. Participation in leisure activities is of great importance for a good growth. The government will work to make leisure activities available to all children, but we don't promise a national roll-out of the leisure card system, because it's an expensive system of uncertain effects. We suggest strengthening the new take-off scheme to include children and young people with a total of 85 million. kr. A strengthened incentive scheme will allow children and young people to participate in social activities and complete training courses. We also suggest expanding the scope for municipalities to apply for incentives to cover the participation fee for leisure activities for children and young people – which was just an intention with the leisure card. The country has been given a new government and a new and good policy. But something good we also have inheritance from the previous government. The new Openness Act provides consumers with access to information on human rights in the value chain of an item. The government has proposed 10 million. I would like to say that it is an enormously important task for the guidance and supervision of the Openness Act. I am also pleased with the budgetary agreement between the government party and SV, where we among others. have increased the rights of the incest and electoral centres, the foundations of the children’s and youth organisations and ensure that children’s rights are not included in the basis for social assistance. In total, I mean this is a good budget for children, families and consumers in 2022. Finally, I would like to highlight the new infectiveness situation. At least I can make sure that as far as possible the government will screen children and young people in the actions that now have to be taken. I'll follow developments in that area very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1964	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1969	I want to say thank you to the Council of State for the brilliance of the Transparency Act that the previous government presented, which we got through after a majority here in the Storting, and which I fully agree with is a very important law. But I want to challenge the Minister of Faith and Vision in this round, and I refer to the newspaper The Day and the debate that is taking place in the South-West, in the Municipality of Klepp, where they have a decision that says that all members must be counted as eligible for leadership, regardless of the form of life, sexual orientation, sex or ethnicity, in order to receive support. Then I see that the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Faith and Vision of Life respond slightly differently to the question in the Jærbladet and the newspaper Dagen respectively. So the question to the Council of State is, how far does she think a municipality can go in view of the kind of restrictions that have been imposed here?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1976	Thank you for the question. The answer to that is that I am uncertain about the role the state has in relation to what a municipality does. I've followed up on yesterday's decision, and there's a part that asks whether the state will do the same. At least I will take it that in the Hurdal platform we have also seen demands for the religious and life-view societies, but we are not going that far: we see demands for representation and that it should be open. So we don't go as far as Klepp does, we don't have any intention either, and it's not in our platform. When it's about equality, it's clear that this is very problematic, and when it's about religious freedom, it might be against it. I don't want to conclude with that right now. But that's how I evaluate the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1983	I can't quite let go of this question of life course. The Council of State itself addressed the importance of prevention, and parental support is definitely a very important prevention measure. As I mentioned, the World Health Organization has identified it as one of the most important. The answer I received from the Central Party Party member of the Council pointed to the fact that this was not a well-used measure to continue it, nor that it was used equally throughout the country. I've shown the previous government's strategy, just to make sure that this is being used all over the country, and I also support the reason that it's not used well enough, all the time we've been in a terrible pandemic that has made this kind of physical course difficult, even if you've tried to compensate with digital. There is also an evaluation in the plans. Would it not be better to assess a knowledge-based approach before cutting a measure like this?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e1994	Thank you for the question. It is quite right that the government of the supplementary proposal terminates the scheme entitled ‘Funds for a life course for first-time parents’. The background for it was, at least in part, that the scheme had been little used, and that there was money left on the state budget. In the budgetary agreement with SV, it was proposed to wind up the ‘society grants’ scheme, which is another scheme. That's the Biggest thing that's decided. But I want to say that even if the early retirement scheme is discontinued, there is still a course in family protection cohabitation measures, and municipalities can also be facilitated by family protection if they want to offer such training to their inhabitants. There is also a good supply in the direction of the health station, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2003	As many people here have understood, I have a very strong commitment to this in terms of violence and abuse against children. Recently, in a number of written questions, I have challenged the Minister of Justice on what to do to combat this, including: how to improve the legal certainty of these children. Last week, however, the media gave a very high diet, where it is seen that there are almost twice as many reviews related to the rape of children under 14 in Oslo this year compared to last year. This year alone, 104 reviews have been submitted, which is very, very serious. I want to challenge the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on what she will actually do in the fight against violence and abuse against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2012	Thanks to the representative who raises this matter and is clear on this. We need to make sure that the Storting is also clear in this hugely important area. When children experience violence and abuse, it will destroy their lives. There's a huge risk of not being able to survive later in life, so this has a very high priority both with me and with the government. I also have to ask the representative to be a little patient, because we have announced on the Hurdal platform that we will launch a new escalation plan to prevent violence and abuse in close relationships and especially against children and young people. We're going to draw up that escalation plan. It's justice that gets the primary responsibility, and I want to participate in the design.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2019	It is good that the new Council of State shares the commitment. I have been told that an action plan has been notified. What I was a little concerned about, however, was that I could not read so much about this priority in her budget. Then I would like to challenge a completely different matter, which concerns the strong lag in the maintenance of, among other things. medieval stone churches in Norway. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party proposes, among other things, to strengthen this effort. One hundred million. kr because you know it's critical out there, and these are maybe some of our all, the most important cultural memories. I wonder if the Council of State can explain what plans she has to step up her efforts so that we can preserve these important cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2026	There'll be a big stake in church maintenance. We are in the process of drawing up a plan for which churches should be given priority. I mean, church maintenance is bad. I received a report about this last week. One has not reached its destination. The maturity has been halted, but it has not been so much better. It will also be an occasion when a person is sued for sharing the Information Society’s fund — there is also a good deal of money. So first of all, we're going to work out a plan that we're going to give priority to, and we're going to do that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2031	I want to challenge the Council of State on the calculation of the family economy. I've done the same before. This government, which has resigned from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposed to withdraw the proposal for a common rate for the parental deduction and to continue the two existing rates nominally, which meant that what was quite a good and targeted measure for the families who had extra costs and had needed it was not introduced. They replaced it by subtracting a few hundred patches from the price of kindergarten. But for many families it is not necessarily 200 kroner or 300 kroner higher or lower price on kindergarten that is crucial; it is that the price is there at all. That's why the goal of that left government was part of, to take care of, among other things. free core time. My question to the Council of State is: Is this a warning about the priorities ahead, or can we expect practical measures that really take those who need it the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2038	That we did not go ahead with that proposal to increase parental leave was a political priority, yes. We mean that one hits the families of children better if we give them cheaper kindergarten to everyone. And when it comes to the NOK 265 a month, the nursery prices have not been set down since 2013, and that has been a pretty big increase. There's a bet that will hit a lot of families. It may be that the Left believes that the parental deduction was more important to prioritize, but here we have made a different assessment, along with the other initiatives we have in the area of children and family.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2044	It's a lot of fun to ask, but right now we're in a very difficult situation with pandemics and new shut-downs, and some of what I'm glad the government is continuing is a special priority for children and young people, and that a person is trying to protect them as far as possible. Both I and the Council of State know well that in many municipalities there are now closed schools, kindergartens, SFOs, leisure activities are shut down, and activities are cancelled. A lot of people are very good at thinking about infectious diseases, and there are fewer activities. The consequences of this are demanding for the most vulnerable children. We have seen the re-prioritisation of health professionals – they are under enormous pressure – which makes them, for example, there are fewer conversations with the school health service. So there's a lot of examples of this. My question is: What is the government's concrete plan, and what measures are being taken to prevent children and young people from suffering from what, if one looks ahead, may be an even more dramatic closure?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2051	Thank you for this question. The representative could have asked a lot of other questions. This is a very serious situation for the country, and I am concerned about how long this is going to last. Children and young people can tolerate not going to school, etc. – now it’s also soon Christmas holidays, which sort of saves the situation a little – but it shouldn’t be long. We'll try to prevent it from being done the last time, that a re-prioritising away from the health wards that should be there for the children. One must insert others with e.g. to help set up vaccines and take tests, which were announced yesterday. We are now considering – it's going on in the government – many new support schemes to be able to access and prevent it from getting worse. A lot of these support schemes will probably recognize you when you see them. We're looking at what was done with the previous shutdown.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2058	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2063	After eight years of right-wing rule and standstill in equality work, we, the new government, have changed gears, and we are in the process of pursuing a more offensive equality policy. All people in Norway should be able to live a free, good life regardless of who they are, and regardless of gender, gender identity and orientation. It's not like that today. We have major challenges related to gender equality in Norway as well. It is important to recognise it – not just because we are high on international statistics. We have major challenges specifically related to the economic autonomy of women. We know that women are overrepresented in the statistics of those who work part-time, and those who work temporarily. In the typical female-dominated professions, there is the lowest wage and women become evenly above pensioners. It's the women who have to lie down with the cell phone on the night table waiting for a phone from the boss to get the extra guard who might get it to go around. The problem with it is that it makes it difficult to plan life – vacation, leisure and work. But worse than that – in the ultimate sense, this is why, for example: don't leave a violent partner; you can't afford to leave. You don't get to settle down, you don't get a mortgage, etc. It is a challenge for gender equality, and therefore employment policy is so important in order to increase equality and strengthen women's rights. We need a full-time promise. We're going to restrict the possibility of temporary employment. Employment policy is equal opportunities policy. Another example of a gender equality challenge that we have, and which we have to fight against, is all of them around us that every day are not allowed to participate in the Community arenas that we have – it is to go to the leisure club, go to cinema or even go to work – those who are subjected to negative social control. So it's that the metoo campaign just scratched the surface of what the extent of sexual harassment, violence and threats in the workplace are all about. We know that the typical female-dominated professions are overrepresented also in terms of having to go to work and experience threats, tafsing, obscene remarks or in extreme consequence violence. We need a big cleaning in the world of work. So we know that women's body and women's health are under-prioritised in the health care system, both in terms of treatment, research and knowledge. Typical female diseases that many people have are rarely or never detected, and they are treated with a voter’s voice. We need a new female health strategy. LHBTIs have consistently worse living conditions than the rest of the population. They experience a lot of anger and discrimination. We also know that very many people experience racism in Norwegian society. Then it is important to point to the areas where men come out badly. Men also have gender issues, and there is little talk about them. That's why the new government has notified us that we're going to set up a new human selection. The most important thing we can do if we want to see these challenges that I now point to – and more to – life, is to strengthen them as every single day out there where people work and live in society, work to increase equality across the country – to enable them to do more. That's why we're also spending money on equality in this budget. We strengthen the equality centres, and we strengthen the organisations working with equality, with LHBTI and with anti-racism. We also put out money to put down a human selection. Yeah, with 20 million. We strengthen the gender equality and grassroots work for a more active equality. We warn that by doing so, we will build a regional structure for equality, and we recognise the good work that equality centres do with research, development and guidance for a more equal Norway. We are in the process, equality is to come forward, but it does not come about by itself; it must be fought every day. We have new measures, we have political will, and we have the tools. We have to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2082	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2087	It's not a secret that I and the Council of State have stood in this room many times and disagreed about much, but we have also actually been able to agree on things on, for example. the equality field. I think it is very good that the Council of State, at least in the past, has had a very clear vote against a new child law: that one should equal fathers and mothers. I think it is good to promote women's health and, of course, that no one should be discriminated against in this country. But I think maybe the Council of State was a little short on social control, which is one of our times perhaps the biggest equality challenges in Norway. So since the Council of State on many of the other things was concrete about what she will do to combat and combat discrimination: what will the Council of State do concretely to fight social control?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2094	Thank you for the question. Yes, being subjected to negative social control is a huge equality challenge. It is a challenge of freedom, and those who experience being exposed to it and are not allowed to participate in the Community arenas because someone else, like adult men, thinks it is not appropriate, they should know that they are not alone. The big community is going to be with them, and we're going to do everything we can to help them. There's got to be a lot of work here. As Minister for Gender Equality, I have a coordinating responsibility for equality, and the Minister for Labour has it for inclusion. We have to work with the school sector, the municipalities, etc. – from a number of minority counselors in schools, who may be someone who has the right glasses on and sees where it is necessary to take a talk, to other possible measures, such as strengthening the organisations working in the field, etc. But it's like we in this government are united that we want these challenges to live, and that's why we work in every field that's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2101	I am pleased that the Council of State in its previous statement also underlined that men had gender equality challenges. But I'd like to follow up on what's especially about social control. Now you get some feedback that you see an increase — although not yet much — in the use of hijab in kindergartens and kindergartens. Don't misunderstand me: I'm all for adults to decide for themselves how to dress, or if you want to use a hijab, but I think it's profoundly problematic – even in a gender perspective – that young girls are forced on this garment. Then I will challenge the Minister for Gender Equality: What does she mean about the use of hijab on young girls?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2106	It is that we have attitudes to the use of that kind of garment in public roles, but as far as the private sphere is concerned, it is not something I as the Minister for Gender Equality should put up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2111	The Council of State began its contribution by telling the Chamber that equality work has remained still in the last few years. Then it's with a little surprise I hear that most of the measures she's taking are precisely measures left with the previous government were in place, ranging from a minority advisory system to a three-part parental leave, which I'm very pleased that the Workers' Party has fought for and got into the Hurdal platform. On one specific point, we have done an extra amount, and that is at a point where Norway was criticized quite a lot. It was just work to combat hate crime. One of the things we've done in this area is a national competence centre. More expertise has been gained in the police on how to deal with these issues, but there is still an area where there is still a lot of work to be done. What in concrete terms will the Council of State do to raise it further?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2118	As the representative is sure to know, hate crime is not in the prime minister's portfolio. It's for the Minister of Justice. But it's an important equality challenge. I agree that the fight against hate crime needs to be stepped up, because we see that in the case of example. How LHBTI individuals are exposed to hate crime, Norway is relatively high on that statistics to the extent that we compare with comparable countries. We can't be aware of that. I am also pleased that we have put these centres in place, and I can assure the representative that the work against hate crime is something that the government will have full focus on. It was also we who strengthened the hate-crime paragraph of our time, and we have proposed a number of reinforcements by the police in this area, also in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2124	The hate-crime paragraph has strengthened together in this great process in the last period, almost a unanimous greatness. We were in common about that, and I'm glad about that. But I am a little surprised that the Council of State believes that this is entirely under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. It is true that it does so in terms of police instruments, but there are a number of more instruments than just justice policy. I think it's a little serious if the council doesn't see that very point. Only in her own field are there a number of instruments that go through just the action plans that I'm very excited to see how is designed. So I'm actually repeating my question with that supplement: doesn't the Council of State realize that there's a fairly large proportion of this that is actually her responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2135	Yes, absolutely. As I said, the fight against hate crime is a very central equality challenge, but I referred to the representative who mentioned the hate crime centres, which are under the police. It'll be sorted by the Minister of Justice. It is such that the level playing field in gender equality is absolutely necessary in order to change the attitudes that ultimately give rise to hatred crime. That's why equality is important. It's true, as the representative says, in my field we have basic equality measures. We have action plans. We support the organisations that are working against this. I guess the action plan the representative is looking for was the action plan for LHBTI people, where hate crime is one of the important areas we say we need to strengthen. We have said that we should strengthen that action plan, and we will return to the Storting within a reasonable period of time with what measures to take there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2142	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2147	Children and young people grow up in the society that has the possibilities that we collectively create. Our task is to create the community where each human being is to grow up safely and the ability to become one will. The best thing about Norway is the high trust we have in each other, and the strong community that binds us together. We have small differences between people and great possibilities. It's just building on this, which is the best thing about our country, that we get people to be on a big social level, where people stand up for the community when the community sets up for them. Unfortunately, too many children in Norway today are growing up in families that are struggling economically. SSB figures show that this was true of as many as about 115,000 children in 2019. This was before the pandemic hit us. After almost two years of pandemic, children and young people are the hardest times. We have to take that very seriously. We see that in recent years it has been an increase in children growing up in families with the current low income, where measures from the previous government have not been adequate, and where we as a community must take a force on behalf of all our children and young people. What we know is that we have a powerful and serious job ahead of us. With a new government, there will also be new priorities, as we see in this budget. It is a great task to ensure that several families and children and young people can be part of the community, without worrying about whether the wallet is stretching to or large enough. Then we need to use the big toolbox. Therefore, our measures in the budget are also very many. Let me mention a few: The rule reintroduces the children's plugin for those who are disabled, as removed by the Solberg scheme. We're going to have an extra arrangement for children and young people, which gives them the opportunity to participate in more leisure activities. We make sure that more people can work and be part of the community. We're reintroducing the spectacle support. We're going to give $300 million. kr to those most in need of assistance in the municipalities. We also increase the free income of the municipalities, so that they get more space for action. In addition, the most vulnerable children, who depend entirely on society’s provision, should be given better child protection. An important part is to ensure that more children have access to free lending of sports and outdoor equipment, because no one should have to grunt at birthday, school day out or not be able to participate in activities because they simply lack equipment. At the same time as we focus on the current needs of children and families, we also need to address the very causes of child poverty, which must be combated with the strongest lye. For the Labour Party always has work for all our work number one. I can assure the assembly that it is still there. Anyone who wants and can get the opportunity to work and at the same time get a salary to live off. The next four years are going to be very tough to reverse the negative development of children growing up in families that are struggling economically. With this budget, we are well under way. Finally, I have to bring forward the large-scale work and the commitment to the equality front. Equality is an important area for the Labour Party and it has been for a long time. It is also for the new government. We strengthen, among other things: the equality centres and the organisations that work for the day to day. This allows them to do even more of what they're already good at, that's easy to promote equality. We have a lot of good measures, and with a government that looks at equality the highest, there's going to be a new course for equality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2185	In the last eight years, the Solberg government has provided good measures to improve the quality of child protection. New child protection laws have been adopted, the child protection reform is now being rolled out in the municipalities, a lift of competences has been implemented, a proposal has been made for better health monitoring and health care, the age limit for after-care has been raised, and a child protection committee focusing on quality and legal certainty has been set up to mention something. My claim is that several of the grips that the new government is now taking on its additional proposition will be involved in weakening the quality of child protection. It is obvious that it is the districts that will suffer the most damage from this policy. They already have at least the minimum availability of skilled professionals today. And in the context of the quality requirements we have put in place in the new Child Protection Act, and the implementation of the child protection reform with increased responsibility for municipalities, we can unfortunately see even more negative newspaper covers that are about child protection. In the Hurdal platform, government parties say that they should stop the development of commercialisation in the sector. Furthermore, they are to phase out large commercial actors in the field of child protection, and they also say to end the use of competitive outsourcing. In agreement with SV, the government moves more quantum leaps towards the left in relation to the Hurdal platform when they say that they are to determine how commercial operations can be phased out in tax-funded welfare services and provide a separate zero-profit model for each such sector. Once the government has agreed to wind up private service providers in the welfare sector, this is not for the benefit of children. The whole of 5 out of 71 verbal proposals in the agreement between the government and the Swedish government show contempt for anything that is not operated under public law. In October, Menon presented a report with several interesting findings, which should also be noted on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. The phasing out of private commercial operators is likely to lead to a reduction in the cost-effectiveness of the public sector and longer queues in some service areas in the short term. They expect the negative effects to be greatest in the districts, and this is due to the fact that the commercial ones are much greater than the ideals of today in the whole country, while the ideals are mostly concentrated in and around the metropolitan communities. If we look more particularly at foster homes, unfortunately it's no longer uplifting there. While recognizing that you have a huge challenge in recruiting enough foster families, you say no to 50 pst. by potential families. In the foster home survey submitted in May of this year, approximately one third of the families that they don't get the follow-up they feel they need. I then find it regrettable that the Workers' Party and SV in the treatment of the Child Protection Act voted against private service providers being able to assist with follow-up visits to foster homes. On questions from me, the Council of State has sent out an overview broken down into private ideals, private commercial and state foster homes divided down into the Bufetat region. These figures relate to new measures for children in the period 2013–2021, not to the number of new foster homes. The State measures in this period constituted 44.3 p.p., while the private non-profits delivered 21.7 p.p. and the commercial 34 pst. In other words, well over half of the measures are provided by others than the public itself. We also know that on August 31, which is the last number I'm sitting on, there are 227 children on the waiting list to have a foster family. The government and SV are now using 150 million. kr on what I would call ideology, by strengthening the public institutional offer at the expense of single purchases from commercial ones. When asked how many more, or fewer, places this gives, the ministry has not been able to give any answer. For the Right, it is all the more important to increase the quality of the offer given to the children. A state monopoly affects the children – in particular, we will see this in smaller municipalities that have challenges in providing the right offer to their children, and where it turns out that they also have the biggest challenges of ensuring proper competence. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State is now following up the comment of a unanimous committee on the suspension of the Child Protection Act that the set up expert committee to help improve the quality and legal certainty of child protection is now to look at all aspects and not just the most serious issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2206	The speakers who will be given the floor in this part of the debate will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2211	Through the Hurdal Platform, the government has set clear and good objectives for child and family policy. The budget is the first step towards achieving the objective of strengthening the universal welfare provision of children and young people. In addition, targeted actions are targeted. It is vital that children and young people grow up safely and well. Unfortunately, there is a child who does not experience it. For these children, good and accurate child protection is crucial. The child protection reform will give municipalities greater responsibility, while at the same time working differently. I have full confidence that the municipalities will be able to do so. But such a turn will take time, while there are many municipalities that will experience not being compensated for the increased costs. We must ensure that we have child protection and that we succeed in the reform of child protection. We need a high-quality child protection throughout the country. Then we have to make it possible for municipalities to manage their new tasks. It is therefore essential that municipalities have predictability of time and resources. It provides for the government by increasing the transitional period to three years. Together with a strengthening of State institutions of 150 million. The budget shows that priority is given to the most vulnerable children. Many children and young people live in low - income families. It is beyond their ability to participate in leisure activities. Facilitating the participation of children and young people in leisure activities is important and the purpose of the card test is good. But experience shows that this is a costly and bureaucratic system, and there is a lot of uncertainty about actually meeting those we want to meet. In this context, it is better to spend resources on other actions that take better action and a scheme that can benefit more people quickly. The budget provides for a new grant scheme in which municipalities can apply for grants to this effect and other things that will increase the ability of children and young people to participate in leisure activities. Municipalities know their citizens well and have a good overview of which children and young people are not allowed to take part in leisure activities. By providing municipalities with the means to cover the costs of leisure activities for those who need it, a more targeted scheme will facilitate the participation of more people in different activities. This, together with full VAT compensation, will allow more children to become active. Municipalities ensure a range of services for children and young people to participate in and ensure that children and young people are well-growthed. Then the municipalities must have a room for action. This government strengthens the general local economy. It will provide municipalities with a better opportunity to strengthen the provision of services to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2226	Human violence against women is a global phenomenon and hinders women's right to life, health, independence and freedom. Despite the fact that one in three women in the world experience physical and/or sexual violence during life, there is little to stop the violence that women are subjected to. It's not just something going on far away from us – it's happening in our city as well as in our neighborhood. The only kind of killing that doesn't go down in Norway is what's called partner killing. Every four killings in Norway are partner killings. But if we stop the violence, we can stop the killings. In seven out of ten partner drops, there is registered partner violence before the killing. They have applied for help before, but still it was not stopped. This is about equality. It's about freedom. Violence does not occur in a vacuum. It's a consequence of the society we live in. The lack of action is a betrayal of all women who must live with fear of domestic violence. Even before the crisis, violence against women was a major problem. At the same time, economic insecurity can lead to increased violence in close relations. When home is unsafe, society has to provide security, and it can actually be absolutely vital for those who have to spend the entire day with a violent person. It can actually save lives. The UN Secretary-General has called on countries to include the protection of women as part of measures against the coronary apathy. At the very beginning of the pandemic, it was done. Unfortunately, Norway did not respond to the call. Now I hope that the new government will take care of it. It concerns both economic inequality and the fight against violence against women. Norway has also received a number of calls from the United Nations to strengthen its response to Sami victims of violence. Half of Sami women are subjected to physical, mental or sexual violence during their lives, but the measures have not been sufficient. Domestic violence is one of the main causes of illness, injury and death among women worldwide. In addition to prevention, those who are exposed must have the opportunity to escape violence and build their future free of violence. Then we have to prevent. It's good that the government increases some of the effort there, but we need a lot, a lot more. We have to prevent this. We must secure the economy of the crisis centres. One in ten is being raped in this country. They have to get the justice and the upliftment that they need. We have no time to lose in protecting women who are subjected to violence. Now we need action.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2245	The debate on area 2 was then finished. Let's move on to the debate on the 3rd framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2250	In this area, too, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation in order to complete the vote in time. I have to admit that it feels a little heavier to debate this budget when we know that the rug is a cultural industry that, after another depressing message, faces a very difficult Christmas time. It's a volunteer that wears on all sides while they once again have to set up, and the sport has to cross their fingers again so that people are still there when we get out on the other side. Therefore, I hope that we from the Storting House can work together to put in place arrangements as quickly as possible and make the arrangements that come, as accurate as possible, also for those who have had to make major changes during the pandemic. Although perhaps there are pandemics and different arrangements most people think about today, it is nevertheless important to discuss what is the basis, the ordinary budget. The left and I are well pleased with the basis on which the government was founded by just the Left, Right and Christian People's Party joined the cultural budget for 2022. Our budgetary option is a budgetary option for diversity and enhanced activity and for culture, volunteering and sport to continue to have good conditions. A total appropriation of well 21.9 billion. kr for 2022 meets the cultural field well and provides the basis for predictability and security for an otherwise difficult time. I am pleased to note that the new government, out of the Labour Party and the Center Party, continues much of the budget that our former government had, only with a few minor adjustments. It is not unnatural that the new government now sees all the qualities of the good budget that we, after all, presented. Our original budget supports under the political lines laid down in all the sound communications and legislative changes that occurred during the period that has passed. It follows the tracks set out in the latest language notification and the language law, the Children’s and Youth Culture Communication, the Museum’s Communication and the Vocabularies’ Message of Volunteership, to mention something. I'm glad that the Left in the budgets we've been a part of has given Norwegian cultural policy a new direction by stimulating growth and idea-making from below rather than steering from above. The interaction between volunteering and public and private actors has been central in this way. The left is fully behind the political objective of our budget for higher quality and increased attention to the content of our cultural actors. Me and the Left are pleased that the previous government's draft budget continued to focus on culture as a industry. It gives more opportunities to live by their art independently of others. That is why I am concerned about the political signals of the new government and whether this will limit the independence and independence of art. It is therefore also disappointing to note that the new government cuts into the gift-enhancing system for cultural life, which has led to so much positive interaction between art, art institutions and private art interests. It has contributed to cooperation, understanding and not least improved funding and artistic development for many projects. Now the new government will remove this, and I hope the rash won't be too big. With the distribution of the Nobel Peace Prize to Ressa and Muratov freshly in memory, I am particularly pleased with our original draft budget and the work we have done to ensure the condition of freedom of expression, democracy, the spread of power, the decentralisation of decisions and diversity, for more than ever truth-seeking journalism is crucial to revealing abuse of power and aggression. The cross-political consensus in Norway on continuing to invest in quality in the media and not least in investigative journalism is something we must continue to stand together on, including here in this Chamber. There are far more measures I could put forward, but once again I would like to remind you that the time we are now facing, will require a lot of us all in this Chamber to ensure that cultural life, sport and volunteering get through in a good way on the other side.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2270	Is the representative going to deal with what the Left proposal has to do with the Progress Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2275	Yeah, I'll take that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2280	The representative, Mr Almeland, then mentioned the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2287	Many important cultural actions are financed through the proportion of funds earmarked for cultural purposes. I, who come from county policy, will bring forward a system that has been very important locally, namely the decentralised regional cultural building system that allows county municipalities throughout the country to provide support for local cultural facilities. The left has previously been concerned with regionalisation, the spread of power and the safeguarding of culture throughout the country. At the same time, the Left in Government has reduced this scheme by nearly 80 million. kr from 2013 to today. This does not give more regional investment, but less. The money has government left was part of, instead used on the gift-enhancing scheme, a system that takes geographically very wrong, as the largest cities get the most. My question is whether the representative from the Left is satisfied with this priority, and what he thinks about the importance of the scheme in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2294	Thank you for the question. I would like to say to the Left that the objectives outlined by the representative are still important. Then it's not just the one arrangement, the gift enhancement scheme, that Left has prioritised spending money on in the periods that we've either been with and influenced or been in government. However, I would like to thank the criticism that the representative has against the gift-enhancing scheme. I have been on a number of different visits to small cultural institutions in several different counties that have concrete examples of projects that have not been achieved in key application schemes, but on which they have nevertheless dared to invest, dared to prioritize time and resources to put in place, precisely because there was a guarantee there that they would receive a sub-financing from the state if they provided for some private funding. I think that has been a proper priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2303	The representative took up the pandemic, how hard it has been. volunteering in recent years, and the importance of strengthening volunteering. At the same time, volunteering itself has sought full VAT compensation throughout the period, as one of the most important and effective measures to be able to cope with the pandemic. We have fulfilled that desire, but it did not want the Left, Right and Christian People's Party in this budget. Instead, they cut 50 million. kr in that scheme. I'm just wondering why.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2310	For the Left, it has been important to ensure that the VAT compensation system is strengthened, which, quite correctly, has been the requirement of voluntary action. If you look at the years when the Left has been in government, we've collectively strengthened that arrangement a lot. For 2021 only, the scheme has escalated to over 1.8 billion. NOK with our proposal, and that is an increase of 856 million. kr from 2013. In fact, the system has been strengthened. So the left agrees that this is a scheme that we're going to continue to strengthen. That is why I will give tribute to the sitting government because they have continued the escalation that the former government started.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2317	I thank you for your answer and would like to give some credit back, for the representative has lifted the importance of journalism in his contribution. A system other than the VAT compensation that we constantly pointed to in the opposition in the previous period had to be lifted and improved was the media support system, which we in the Stortinget had written, even with a Left Minister at the rudder. The left has been with the Center Party for many years in the fight to make it easier for the locals. In our budget now, we are strengthening production support for the local authorities because they have had it tough and have fallen outside the media support system, and we are also strengthening the Centres for Investigative Journalism, so that they can help the local authorities. I am concerned if the representative sees that there is a strengthening that has something to do with it, or if he thinks that the budget presented by the government of Solberg is good enough in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2326	Just like the two measures that the representative here mentions, the Left is obviously positive too. You could pick out quite a number of different individual measures from the additional proposition that came from the government, which Left could very well support and stand behind, but what's underlying here is a difference between the overall priorities, and there's the current government doing some cuts that the Left doesn't agree with, which I explained in a previous post. In the case of exactly the two schemes in isolation, the Left is positive to them, and the Left will work in the coming period to ensure that local journalism is strengthened. Local media is incredibly important precisely to ensure democratic control. In the city I represent, Oslo, just lack of local journalism has been an important factor in the lack of sufficient democratic control. That's what I'm happy to start getting into place now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2333	The representative from the Left may well have his program considerably better than me, but I have noticed in some sentences, where it says: «We believe that religion should be separated from politics. Therefore, we will complete the distinction between church and state." When it came to the funding system in the last round, the Progress Party had just proposed to cut support for church and religious and life-view societies because we believe this is a private matter that people can pay for themselves. I wonder if that is how the Left now also opens up to at least reducing, if not abolishing completely, the subsidies to the Church and the religious and life-view societies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2343	The left has no proposal to cut into the total support of the religious and life-view society. An important part of freedom of religion is to be able to exercise one's faith, and although I fully agree with what is referred to here from the Left Programme, namely that the State should not interfere with what you believe in, it is to facilitate that one can actually exercise it, also an important part of fulfilling the freedom of religion that the Left fully supports. Then, of course, we can have discussions in the period that comes, about how the device on the support is, and I'm sure we're going to have, too, but lowering the total support is not a proposal left has.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2353	I would like to ask the representative a little about why it is so important to support the gift-enhancing scheme. Because I wonder if the representative of Almeland has looked at how the scheme has turned out, who has received the money, and how, for example, it has. geographical breakdown. If you look at the distribution of funds, most of the money has gone to Oslo, Viken and Westland, and many districts have had little. In addition, we see that large institutions and foundations have provided gifts for themselves to milk the scheme. They're also taking $70 million. spending on the cultural share of the toy, which could have been allocated to organisations and institutions throughout the country. So I wonder if the representative of Almeland can say something about what he thinks about the distribution of these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2360	The answer to whether I have seen that distribution is very clear yes, and it has also been a concern in the past that there has been too much central concentration. That's why I'm glad that the distribution has improved over the last few years, and that several states that didn't have any institutions or anyone who applied for the gift enhancement earlier, now are actually on the track. Yes, some big money has gone to the areas that have the largest institutions, but what's important to underline, and which is problematic in the argument that I'm experiencing here, is that you ignore the very many and very important smaller individual projects around in places that don't want to reach with the ordinary arrangements. Then the gift enhancement is one scheme, but the foundation must be solid support for culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2369	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2374	At the fall election, the voters said clearly that they wanted a new course for Norway. With the budget of the Labour Party-Center Party Government and the comparison with SV, Norway takes a new and fairer direction. After eight years of right-wing government, where the differences have increased, budget winners have been the most advanced, there is now a new direction. Culture, sport and volunteering are decisive for living communities throughout the country and a good life for the individual. The government will therefore support its new cultural policy course under an open, inclusive and diverse cultural life throughout the country and will facilitate both the breadth of cultural life and the professional life. Many voluntary organisations around the country contribute to competence, learning and inclusion, so that people of all ages can meet, engage and be part of a community. People should be able to experience culture regardless of who one is, and where one cage, and we're going to end unfair schemes that appreciate a few. That's how we're going to ensure an offer across the country and a fairer distribution. That's why we have ambitious goals, and we're already doing well. For the Workers' Party, it is an objective that volunteering should have great freedom and a central place in society. This requires more diligence and strengthened financial frameworks. Full VAT compensation has our volunteer and sport's most important requirement, which will mean more free resources for that activity throughout the country. In this budget, we will meet the requirement for full VAT compensation for the next year and also for the current year. The right-wing government hasn't prioritised it in the last eight years. But it seems that there has been a broad consensus across the parties that the VAT compensation system has been important, but when it comes to the actual promises, it has not been fulfilled. Instead of following the volunteering and sport's proposal for the escalation plan, the previous government created its own, less ambitious plan, and in the last budget, the government chooses to cut 50 million. The reason for this is that it has a lower activity. When volunteers have had less activity because of covid-19, they need no less, but more money. With the Workers' Party in government, there will be a new price and finally full VAT compensation. This is important for this government because it should be available to everyone, especially children and young people. We will facilitate the construction of more installations and work against the equipment pressure that many people experience in everyday life. To this end, we strengthen free credit centres such as BUA, which allow more people to participate in the community. An important part of the cultural policy of the Labour Party-Center Party government is also to strengthen the professional part of culture. Under the right-hand rule, culture may appear to have been demolished to decorate cakes and not important enough to prioritize tax cuts to the richest. But artists are also workers, who are also suitable for kindergarten and have to pay their bills. As we promise in the Hurdal platform, the government will help to strengthen the artistic economy. Already, we're proposing an increase of 59 million. kr to the free field of art and culture. Therefore, we also allow funds to create 100 new homes for work grants and increase the access to Norwegian cultural funds. Finally, I have to comment on our strengthening of the local economy, which of course will also help to strengthen local cultural life throughout the country. Overall, this provides a good budget for culture, sport and volunteering across the country. Then, fortunately, we have three more budget proposals, and in the period we're in now, where culture, volunteering and sport need us, I'm glad to work with the committee to try to find good solutions that take care of them in this coronary apathy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2402	It was a bit of a tirate from the representative in this post. How can you say, when you have increased VAT compensation from 952 million? In 2013, almost 100 percent is tangling; only 35 million are missing. NOK 2021 to reach 100 pst. compensation, that it is not a priority, while the same government to finance its promise for the next year is seriously affecting volunteering in a number of other areas? In a debate earlier today, we have already spent time discussing the leisure card, which, in total, when the entire scheme is gone, means 400 million. kr in lapses. The reduction in the tax deduction from NOK 50000 to NOK 25000 is estimated by the volunteer itself to amount to SEK 400 million. kr in their loss of income, and the gift-enhancing scheme has averaged more than 320 million. private dollars each year – almost a dollar in proportion to what you put on the VAT compensation. So how can you draw this picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2409	Thank you for the question. When it comes to VAT compensation, it has been the most important requirement for voluntary activities and sport since the early 2000s. I'm glad we're getting settled. It means more money to travel with children and young people all over the country, who now especially need it to help offer activities even after the pandemic. When it comes to the gift-enhancing scheme, which the right-wing representative mentions, the representative cannot be surprised that the Labour Party does not pursue the Right-wing policy. The Labour Party has been opposed to this scheme since it was established, because it has funds from other measures, including: gambling agents. In addition, as many people have been in today's world, the system is socially and geographically unfair, and we'd rather spend the money on the broad cultural life around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2418	Thanks for the answer. There's no doubt that this has been the most important requirement of volunteering, so we've also almost fulfilled it in these eight years. But it's like saying to the son or daughter, now it's approaching Christmas Eve. Here you get the gift that's at the top of your wish list, little friend, but I'll take the two you got last year, because I have to use them to finance the gift you get from me this year. So to the question, the government parties have been very high and dark when it comes to completing the ABE reform, which they have criticized for eight years. If you look at the supplementary budget now, I guess it's not touched in any area. In addition, what is termed ‘budget gains from changed work travel’ and ‘reduced appropriations related to consulting’ have been introduced, with 160 million. Total in the budget. What are the plans to continue working on this? Do you want to go down, or do you actually want to increase the overall revenue of the ABE reform, as is now done with these two new reforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2429	First of all, for the VAT compensation: it is now finally paid – in addition to the current year, which has been extremely important for this government. It's a little strange that the right-wing representative takes up that this is a low-hanging fruit, when the last proposal from the right would actually cut the scheme by 50 million. kr. Turning to the ABE reform: it has a reform which the Labour Party has opposed and which the Right has intended should be more effective when one has, in fact, been involved in cheese relations which have made it possible, for example, to do so. institutions around the country have actually had less to go with. So I think the right-wing representative understands that it takes some time to change right-wing policy in the last eight years. We are doing well, and it is quite clear that a reform such as the ABE reform does not strengthen institutions and leaders around, but rather weakens them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2438	We may not be so tall and dark – we are low and bright, but we have strong opinions anyway. I have recently discussed with the representative in the paper about volunteering. I'm really upset that you're halving the tax deduction, not least because you're trying to mislead the volunteer out there, when you're in this room, in all the posts, today you're talking about full VAT compensation instead of rule-driven compensation. The Progress Party today has a proposal which reads: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget for 2022 with proposals for amendments to the VAT compensation scheme for sport, volunteering and culture to be regulated instead of the framework grant’.» What is the reason why the Labour Party will not support the proposal when they stand on the platform and say they are in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2453	Thank you for the question from a Westerner who is as low and light and loud as myself. When it comes to the gift-enhancing system, it's not about a halve, as one has said several times, but the scheme will still stimulate people to give money. Most people are still going to give a lot of money, not because they get tax deductions, but because they want to contribute gifts to the community. When it comes to the VAT compensation, he's full. In addition, we clearly say in the Hurdal platform that he will be governed. As I said before, it takes some time to get things regulated. It takes some time to turn a shot that has gone in the right direction over the last eight years. But it's nice that the Progress Party is now on the team to get the compensation regulated. This is what we're going to do. So I'm a little bit curious that the Progress Party only now produces this when they've had the power over the last eight years. But it's nice that they're on the team, because we're going to get this together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2464	Yes, with the Progress Party as a driver, we've had a strong escalation plan. I will be the first to admit that we did not get through that time to get it governed. But now we have made proposals today, and the Workers' Party has the opportunity to help get things going. One thing is full VAT compensation, which goes on the frame and is absolutely right, but it's tricking with words, because it's the rule rule rule that volunteer wants. I have another question. The working party has boasted a lot of the reinforcement of the artists' ideas. Last week we could read in the VG that some have actually had an income of between 1 million. NOK 5 million. kr in the last few years, has substantial assets and still receives a state grant of NOK 460000 each year until they become a pensioner. Is that what the Labour Party believes in a fair distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2471	I want to thank you for the question. It is important that one provides means for more people to be able to work with art and culture all the time. Then you're very important to work. As I said before, in my speech, the Labour Party is occupied by both the broad cultural life and the professionals, who are workers and who need to live on it. So it is well the case with all the arrangements, which everyone here in the hall – if it had been full – would have been in agreement, that it is not all the arrangements that are 100 pst. Perfect. Hence, it is also important that a constant period of time continues to develop arrangements. The Labour Party is doing well, but the most important thing now is the commitment to culture, also for people to live on from this. So it's a little weird that the Progress Party takes up art and culture, when they themselves have cut an incredible amount of money for this in their alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2480	Yeah, it's no secret. It's rather the opposite of something we're very proud of. The Progress Party has stated loudly and clearly that we should take a settlement with waste. The scholarships are actually part of what we cut, except for, among other things. 2 billion. kr i cut to NRK. I would nevertheless challenge the representative from the Workers' Party: if I understand the representative correctly, that is to say, the government parties are now still opening up to look at this scheme, so that one cannot earn between 1 million. NOK 5 million. kr per year and still receive a scholarship of 460000 SEK per year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2487	I want to thank you for the question. This is clearly a new government, which actually sees ordinary people first – that's who we're for. Ordinary people are artists and cultural people, which are the most important. With the proposals of the Progress Party for the budget, where one cuts an incredible amount of money, the possibility of ordinary people being able to experience culture throughout the country is reduced. It's important to give those who are going to do all the art and culture that we ordinary people are going to experience, the ability to get decent employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2494	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2499	The last thing the Right did in government was to put forward a government budget that facilitates a safe and healthy life throughout our country – both in cities, in the countryside and on the coast. By laying the foundations for more jobs in the private sector, by providing people and businesses with the skills they need, and by speeding up the transition towards a greener and more digitised society with cooperation and action, we have managed to deal with the rapid economic downturn since World War II. Then there are some dark clouds in the sky right now, and as the committee leader was in, I hope that government and greatness can be both collective and predictable in the processes that we now have to go through. At the macro level, and probably even further down than that, there is obviously a strong consensus on the cultural budget that the Solberg government presented. The big government has chosen not to increase the budget framework but to make some re-priorities, and in comparison with SV, the government has spent 20 million. kr. That's what I'm trying to interpret as that there's a great deal of consensus. The red-green parties will probably be quick to answer that they have only had a short period of time and therefore have not been able to make any more changes, but despite the argument of time, the same government has nevertheless moved a few billion dollars, so here it is well the will that has had a great role. I also want to remind the same parties that they have had eight years to put a good plan for what they would do on the day they might come to power again. It is probably also worth mentioning that culture, volunteering and sport are not mentioned in one single word in the budget unit. After eight years of bourgeois government, we have a better starting point for conversion. The Norwegian economy has become greener and less oil dependent, and competitiveness has been strengthened and more digitised. In the cultural field, too, I would say that after eight years we are going out with a cultural sector that is more robust, more free, and that has more economic legs to stand on. The Solberg government has maintained and increased the allocation of the cultural budget throughout the period from 2013. At that time, the budget amounted to about $9.5 billion. kr, and if, for the sake of comparison, we exclude the appropriations for the NRK and equality purposes, the cultural budget for 2022 is 14.7 billion. kr, or an increase of SEK 5,2 billion. kr – or almost 60 pst. in eight years. To put it another way, we're about the same percentage of the state budget as in 2013. Now several of us have tried to get the Minister of Culture to answer how they will calculate, or – perhaps more correctly – from what point of view they will calculate their goal of 1 pst. of the State budget for culture. Even after eight years of this as its most important promise in the field of culture, the red-greens have not been able to answer this, and on 25 November I received the following answer to my question: ‘The Government will, in an appropriate manner and within the appropriate time, come back to the Storting with a more specific approach to this objective.’ So time will show when it's appropriate and what this equation is going to look like. Culture, sport and volunteering constitute Norway’s largest population movement. It contributes to good public health, participation and inclusion and creates local commitment and community. For the Right, their framework conditions are important, and our job is among other things. ensuring them a diversity of sources of funding. The biggest re-priority government does in the Solberg government's budget, is to pay full VAT compensation, and I'm taking part in applauding it, but I distance myself from how it's financed. To fulfill the promise of full VAT compensation, where the government spends 150 million. kr at the top of the Solberg government already SEK 1.75 billion. kr, the government cuts dramatically elsewhere. I would like to remind you that the scheme, which we were also involved in the line change instead, was about 950 million. NOK when we took over in 2013. The government will liquidate the leisure card, which will save them in the long term for 400 million. kr. They cut down the gift-enhancement scheme, which brought in over 800 million. private dollars for culture and volunteering in 2020, or SEK 2.6 billion. private finances since 2014. 2 500 small and large measures across the country have been supported during this period. The Museum Association and the Hospital Claws were two of many who warned the Red-Greens against scrapping the system in the election campaign. In a letter last week, the Swedish Cultural Protection Association has explained the unfortunate consequences for voluntary cultural protection organisations of the termination of the gift-enhancing scheme. They write that this resolution testifies to an urgent work in which the immediate consequences for volunteering have not been determined. They also write: not what we saw at the entrance to the year of Volunteering in 2022. The Cultural Protection Association and our membership organisations have been working for a long time on preparing to celebrate the voluntary protection of culture in 2022, and we now feel that the government is stretching our legs in the start block of this important year. The Museums Association has also reiterated its concerns about scrapping schemes in response to the new government. The government's not going there. They also reduce the tax deduction on gifts to volunteer from NOK 50 000 to NOK 25 000. In our country, among other things, wrote: The Cancer Association, the Norwegian Blind Federation, the Norwegian Sports Association and the Refugee Aid have worked well to increase the contributions of both persons and businesses. In 2019, 870,000 donors were deducted from gifts for over 4 billion. kr. Freedom Norway writes on its website that they want to extend the scheme and that the deductible amount should be raised to NOK 100000. So the government is going the other way. I see that the Central Party representatives, my good colleagues in the committee, are trying in readers' letters to defend the fact that their party is now saying no to schemes that stimulate private donors to contribute to culture and volunteering. But they reverse the whole problem of the reduction in tax deductions on their heads and say that the taxpayers who give some of the biggest gifts are able to reduce their tax deductions. They say that this is in line with the government's policy of equalizing differences. And as if that's not enough, they're performing to produce the halves of tax deductions from $50,000 to $25,000 as a significant increase in relation to the 2013 level, when the Solberg government took over. It'll be almost comical to read. In this case, they do not sacrifice volunteering – those who actually lose this – a single thought, and volunteering itself estimates that they can lose up to 400 million. kr annually on this change. The objective of the Solberg government, as opposed to the left, has been to strengthen the economic sustainability of culture through both public and private funding. Cultural life needs more economic support, and the government has therefore established new measures and mechanisms to strengthen the economic sustainability of the arts and culture sector in the last eight years. The gift-enhancing scheme, increased tax deductions, Talent Norway and the film-incentive scheme are all examples of this. The schemes have been a great success that has helped to strengthen the cultural budget by billions of dollars. For example, since its establishment in 2015, Talent Norway has contributed to building up talent initiatives worth more than 380 million. kr. The filmincentive scheme has had major ring-effects in the Norwegian film industry and the film industry in Norway. In addition, it has made it possible to build up competences and invest in national equipment, and it has proved to be a good tool for food growth and employment. We are positive that the scheme should now be looked at and further developed. The culture and experience it gives enriches us as human beings. Art and culture are part of our national infrastructure. The cultural institutions anchor us in our history, challenge us and open up to the unknown, and it is an important piece in the national democratic infrastructure. A key objective of cultural policy is to make it relevant, accessible and contribute to the participation of several of us in cultural activities. We want the experiences that culture gives us to reach out to people of all ages throughout the country. And to achieve this goal, we believe that it is essential to use all the good forces, so that the economy of cultural life is strengthened. Then we can't say no to private money worth billions, as the left-hand side is unfortunately doing in its budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2536	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2541	I've asked around several times in the last few years, among other things. in the department, whether it is possible to demonstrate the functioning of the gift-enhancing scheme. Then the answer is no. Can the representative Pettersen prove it?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2546	No, just as little as you can prove the opposite way, but what you can prove, both with the gift enhancement scheme and with the tax deduction, is that the size of the donors and the number of donors has increased after the scheme has been introduced and after the scheme has been extended. But it has not been said that the donors and the money will be gone if the arrangements go away. In the case of the tax deduction, the voluntary nature itself has estimated a loss of 400 million. kr, which they fear if the government's proposals are in place. Clearly, we must take this seriously. In any case, this is to gamble with the fact that donors and institutions don't change their efforts to raise private money, if you now cancel the arrangements, and that if x number of years you see that one or the other was right, depending on what happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2553	I have here the overview of all those who have given to the gift enhancement scheme. It's primarily foundations. There are foundations that have a sum they're going to spend, and they're going to spend it anyway. Another thing that says here is that 25 of the largest recipients take over half of the sum. Top is popular Kastefos, which gets a lot of money in many other ways because they're so big. So there's so many cases here where it's Christen Sveaas himself, or Kistepos, that give to itself. Good over half of the 26 million. kr which the State gives in gift-enhancing to Kistephos, comes from Kistephos himself. Then I wonder, is it right to take away the cultural part of the games, which was to go to the decentralised cultural houses or musical instruments of the Kulturrom system, and let foundations such as Sveaas's foundation control the cultural resources of the country in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2563	To start with the last part of the question, we have said in comments in the budget that we are now going to review budgeting, both in relation to the Council of Culture and the funds, so we look forward to that. Then I have to be so honest to say that 80 million. kr averaging an investment to add 320 million. NOK private kroner I think is a very positive calculation. It is relevant to ask: if not the gift-enhancing scheme had been there, who would these 25 examples have applied for money from in order to operate their cultural offerings, which they have around? Well, it would probably be both states and states that had received more applications into their bunkers — and possibly had thought these were good measures, and prioritised it. You don't have to do that now. However, all the measures that the representative does not mention are equally important, such as: Urne's stave church, which the Ancient Memory Society drew out. They say that the gift-enhancing system is essential for us to be able to restore this church – as an example of the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2572	In order to continue a debate – which has been all day, but which the representative himself also raised, on the VAT compensation: As I said earlier, VAT compensation has apparently had a broad political upswing in the Stortinget, and he has our volunteer, sport and culture's most important demands. Especially after the covid-19 pandemic, he's probably badly needed to create activity around the country. Next year, a volunteer celebrates his year, and this, as I said, was his most important requirement. One can read in the budget proposal from the Right that their last thanks to cultural life is to cut the scheme by 50 million. kr. Then I wonder if the representative from Right now thinks that this is the right tool for volunteering, culture and sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2579	The answer to that is, first of all, that the adjustment from 1.8 to 1.75 billion. kr was based on the reduced activity of the pandemic, which is also described in the budget of the Solberg Government. So I would say, once again, that yes, we are all aware that this has been the greatest desire of volunteering, but we have said that for example. The leisure card has been something we have wanted to deliver in addition to this most important wish, which is to enable families to choose which activities their children will be allowed to participate in, which the government now chooses to cut out in order to add to the VAT compensation scheme. Then you can focus on which of these schemes we think is the best one to give economic priority. Our answer is that in that priority, the leisure card is more important, as well as that we have stepped up the VAT compensation scheme all the way through the government period, except this last year, because the pandemic has led to lower volunteer activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2586	When the representative from the Right first mentions the leisure card, I can unfortunately not do so. As I said, full VAT compensation gives culture, volunteering and sports throughout the country the opportunity to pursue more activity. As mentioned earlier in the auditorium, we know that the card is an expensive and bureaucratic system, and it actually does not meet quite a few. In addition, she takes a very long time to roll out, which means that there are only a fraction of children and young people in Norway who get used to it. In addition, one, mentioned earlier, has not used the offer in full. Then my question to the representative from the Right is, why do you think that the leisure card, which only affects a fraction of children and young people, and which is such an expensive and bureaucratic system, is a better system than spending the 50 million. kr to obtain full VAT compensation for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2593	Now I hope the scheme doesn't hit, but "hits". I think it is a more positive word when it comes to getting funds. I think it's very early for the representative to pass judgment on and evaluate the leisure card system, which has worked in a few municipalities for two years, and which the Solberg government now wanted to expand to get a better knowledge base before rolling it out. But it's obvious that a check for every family of NOK 2000 per year, which was the intention behind the scheme, will help, first of all, that volunteering will get members and activity into which they would not have otherwise, plus – and I think that's a very important point – moving the decision on the use of this money from volunteering and home to the dinner table. So it's the family that agrees that Kari and Ola should start handball, football or ice hockey – and through that route the money goes out again to volunteer, through the right channel.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2600	The representative from the Right has said from the pulpit that culture would like to have more legs to stand on. Although the Progress Party is making strong cuts in the cultural budget, we have also made it clear that there are other ways of being involved in financing cultural offerings, for example. by introducing a system of licences in play. Now we have a waste of money to process. I know that the representative has probably got as many input into it as I have, but after that we see that it is Norway and Finland that are the only European countries left with an exclusive right model and a state monopoly on gambling. I wonder if the representative from the Right now, after leaving the government, has a slightly different approach to evaluating a game licensing model, rather than the one-off model that is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2607	Let me start with «more legs to stand on»: I am pleased that the Progress Party has been involved in either being in government or supporting budgets that have contributed to an increase in the cultural budget of 60 p.m. Over the past eight years, in addition to having the private money come in to give culture more opportunities to stand on. So to the question: I think the representative believes the same about the game policy today that I meant when we were in government. I disagree as much with my own party today as I was when we were in government, but we have a party program today that is identical to what we had when we were in government, which says we should protect about today's exclusive model. It will also be the basis for the treatment we are going to receive when we are going to deal with the law on gambling, but we have addressed a number of other issues in that law, which is about both lottery and horse games, which it is going to be topical and exciting to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2614	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2619	The central party's fundamental value view is to work for economic, social and geographical cohesion in the Norwegian society. Therefore, the Hurdal platform is setting out a new and fairer course for Norway and our citizens. The changes promoted by the Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the SV to the government’s proposal for the State budget of Solberg are a first step towards taking Norway in a more balanced and fair direction, including in terms of culture and volunteering. Our new budget provides for four important issues for which we in the Centre Party have been working for several years: full VAT compensation for all voluntary teams and organisations a starting point for a necessary local and regional cultural promise; the willingness to take the artistic economy seriously; a number of measures to strengthen equality and better media pluralism – two pillars of our democracy Our budget for 2022 is, as I said, just the first step for us, a taste, because for practical reasons, the supplement that the government and SV have agreed on is just an adjustment to the budget that the previous government has been working on for several years. We have only had a few weeks to work on it after all the negotiations, as a result of a government change. Since we have not had time and opportunity to make overall priorities between all kinds of issues and positive projects that are good and important, we have also not been able to participate in any comments or suggestions from the opposition in the budgetary position, even if we are positive to them. Interesting in that context is to note that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have now suddenly found funds for cultural and voluntary purposes – funds they did not have when they had power for eight years. Some of these things and many others that are important to us, I look forward to working thoroughly, completely and well in future budgets. Full VAT compensation on the purchase of goods and services is a simple and unbureaucratic way of taking voluntary action, local culture and sport on a broad scale, including organisations with weak economies. This has been the main demand of volunteering and sport since the 2000s, and for eight years by a majority, the Right, Left, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have not complied with this requirement. They have opted it out in favour of, for example: tax cuts to the richest. The Workers' Party-Center Party administration, together with SV, has now achieved full VAT compensation from 2021 onwards in 2022. It has been a pleasure to experience how well that grip has been received by teams and associations around, not least in the middle of a pandemic and shut-down that has hit them hard. That the right-hand government in its budget in that situation actually prefers to cut 50 million. kr in the VAT compensation scheme rather than strengthening it, is then a little incomprehensible. In our draft budget for 2022, we finally see the beginning of a local and regional cultural promise – the promise made by the Enger Committee in 2014 that was now necessary, together with the strengthening of the artistic economy. Unfortunately, for eight years both parts have been blizzarded with blue-blue cultural policy. In contrast, the new government is committed to strengthening the artistic economy and facilitates better rights and employment opportunities for artists and cultural workers living throughout the country. The pandemic has shown how vulnerable and vulnerable artists are as a group, many facing challenging economic situations with unsafe sources of income and unstable job opportunities. It is therefore good that the new government, together with SV, prioritises strengthening the artistic economy through 100 new scholarships, strengthening SKUDA by 5 million. kr, secure funds for new arrangements for established stage art companies, strengthen the Sound and Picture Foundation and have increased the focus on internationalisation of art and culture over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget. At the same time, we are strengthening the Norwegian Cultural Fund by 20 million. NOK 10 million. kr goes to tour activities, musicians, artists and ensembles throughout the country, and 10 million. kr goes to the music festival subsidy scheme. This will help create increased artistic activity and more dissemination and production of music and culture across the country. Together with the necessary upgrading of the urban cinema, the start of the Hurdal platform promise of a new local and regional cultural promise: ‘People must have access to art and culture, regardless of who they are, and where they live.’ The government has great ambitions in the film field, and we're glad we're doing so well in the daytime. Last week, the film Ninjababy won the prize for best comedy in Europe's response to Oscar. I'm glad that we already in the adjusted budget got a boost in the film field of a total of 20 million. kr. Our strengths carry an offer for a change of course and a more beneficial policy, and so do our cuts. The opposition has criticised us for shutting down the gift-enhancing system, as they have established, but it has not, therefore, led to documented strengthening of private capital for culture and volunteering, and it is striking incredibly crooked. So the 25 largest recipients are large museums and institutions that have ended up with almost half of the funds in the scheme up to now. Geographically, it has a total of 33 pst. of these public funds went to Oslo and nearly 20 pst. to Westland, mostly to Bergen, while other regions have only had smolters in relation to: Trondellag only 2.7 pst. of the funds and Troms and Finnmark under 2 pst. This is not an equalizing distribution of the country's cultural crowns. Then we get to another side of the system that is bad. It is always an important principle that there should be no ability to attract private capital to govern the Community's funds or that there should be donors to determine the state's allocation of funds. It happens with this system and makes it benefit only few and not many. The last thing that's wrong with the scheme is that the right-wing government financed it by moving money from other good purposes, which builds up the cultural base wall across the country. Over 200 million. gift-enhancing crowns were taken from the pot to culture in the games in 2020, including: the decentralised scheme for buildings of culture and the Kulturrom scheme. Therefore, the government's solution, by redeploying these funds within the cultural share of gambling, is redistributive. There is a redistributive cultural policy across the incomes of organisations and institutions and where they are located. The scheme will be terminated from 2022. That means that everyone who has applied for now will receive a gift enhancement paid in 2022. Thus, the situation is predictable, and the changes notified are not happening overnight. The efforts of the foundations, industry and other sponsors for culture must be absolutely commended, but such efforts should govern and determine where the community should spend its money, do not make sense to us. Prioritising good framework conditions for serious journalism and a good media diversity is important for our democracy, not least at a time when fake news and unprofessional alternative media are spreading very negatively, while the media industry is affected by the loss of VAT revenue to international actors and the loss of national advertisers due to the pandemic. We in the Center Party have been particularly concerned about the locals in recent years. They are a support bar in local democracy and the public conversation around the country, but many of them have small margins and are totally dependent on production support to survive at all. We are, therefore, strengthening our budget efforts in local terms by 8 million. kr, without this being at the expense of the major national and regional media that are also in the scheme. In addition, we're securing 2 million. The Centres for Investigative Journalism, located in Bergen, may continue to provide local time and tools to make even more good digging journalism and experience it as relevant and attractive. Media policy is important for the Central Party and for the Government. It's also our cultural memories. In the Hurdal platform, we have more clear and concrete targets in that field for the next four years. In particular, the escalation plan for the Cultural Memory Fund and the work of improving tax and tax incentives in the field of cultural memory protection become important. We are working on that, and it will be an important part of future revised budgets, along with the plan to repair the medieval stone churches by the thousandth anniversary. In the meantime, the government already in this budget ensures that the planning of the Millennium Anniversary becomes a national mark throughout the country. I'm glad. The same applies to the celebration of the Year of Volunteership in 2022. What I'm not looking forward to is what's happening now -- another shutting down of society because of the pandemic. We as a society must take strict action, but they will once again affect volunteering, culture and sport hard. I have to say it has been surrealistic in less than two weeks to go from so to say to have opened all the way up to shut down as strongly as we now have to. The budget we are debating today does not deal with this situation to a large extent, but fortunately, the government is extending the corona support schemes for culture, volunteering and sport independently and is now working together with the field to make adjustments to make the arrangements better than they were, and more adapted to the situation today. I know that a lot of people are working on it, and I look forward to solutions – all the way – coming into place. Culture, volunteering and sport are very important to our society, which is made absolutely visible in the budget adopted today, but which is to be lifted even more with a new government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2678	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2683	I want to go back to this with reduced tax deductions, from NOK 50 000 to NOK 25 000, which volunteering itself estimates to be 400 million. kr in lapses. It has been calculated according to how much the gifts have increased as the tax deduction limit has increased. The Ministry of Finance has probably estimated the income of the government to be nearly 100 million. kr. In the program of the Centre Party, it is a point where it says: ‘The centre lot will: Tax relief work for private owners of protected and conservation properties.» I drew an example of this in the line change instead: Urne's stave church, which the Premise Association is working on, and which I think has so far received NOK 750,000 using these schemes. What does the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, think about his party's change of course in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2700	Thank you for the question. It is not all in our programme that has ended up in the Hurdal platform, nor in our policy. But when I've been involved in how this tax deduction system works, I find it quite unproblematic to understand that it's a good review we've now done, and that it's quite in line with the policy of the new government, with a much more balanced tax and tax policy. When the volunteer estimates that they'll miss 400 million. kr, it's probably a number I really want to discuss, because what's really the fact here is that it's just 8 pst. the total of the plan as a whole. That's still 890 million. NOK left in the scheme that we use on tax credits for all the donors. So it's a violent exaggeration and overdramatisation of this arrangement. It's just 80 million. kr that disappears. I hope the representative Pettersen can take it in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2707	The number I referred to in my post, which was from the last full year, was that it had entered 4 billion. kr in gifts. Say 8 pst. Or 10 pst., that's about. 400 million. kr that we fear in the loss of income, so I think the representative is taking care of the concerns of the volunteer. I've read a little bit more in the Center Party program. One thing is what's gotten into the Hurdal platform, another thing is how much love the representative puts behind when she argues for this, because there's also a formulation where it says: ‘The centre lot will: Step up the ceiling on the amount of the gift-deduction scheme for enterprises for gifts to non-governmental organisations. In addition, tax deductions for gifts should also be made available to local teams and associations.» Is it the case that the representative is in a bit of a mess, or is it what was a good policy a year and a half ago, a very bad policy today?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2721	It's not necessarily much worse or better policy. It depends on how you look at it. What's the matter, is that the party has gone in for it before. I thought it was okay. I thought that such a tax deduction scheme would work much better and be a much stronger incentive for the donors to give. It has proved not to be, and therefore I think it is quite unproblematic that we have ended up in the budget agreement with SV where we have ended up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2726	The representative said that she had thought it would be a greater eagerness to give. So: 870 000 donors in 2019 gave 4 billion. For the sake of voluntarity! I want to say that it's a huge commitment, and volunteering itself fears, based on its calculations, that a tenth of this is going to go away as a result of the halving of the tax deduction. I have to say, I'm a little surprised that the representative, Sem-Jacobsen, seems to take so easily this really serious message of concern that volunteering itself brings us here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2731	Thank you for the question. As has been repeated several times here in the hall, we are very concerned that the state will initially manage our tax dollars. This is a system where we spend almost 1 billion. NOK to give tax deductions. Most of that money is still in the order. A very large proportion – approx. 92 pst. – of the gifts given, remain in the arrangement. I feel that the level we have now applied to this scheme when it comes to tax deductions is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2736	In the past, the Progress Party and the Center Party, as I have seen, have agreed quite clearly that the toalisator fee is a customs duty. That's why we were very happy when we were able to get rid of this fee during the Coronapandemie to help the horse sport and not least the horse industry. For this reason, the Progress Party today has a concrete proposal that the government be asked not to reintroduce the toalisator fee, while asking for the exemption from the fee to benefit the purpose of the horse sport, not a private foundation. As I read all the Central Party headlines during the election campaign, they fully agreed with this, but no one from the party today will support our proposal. What's the background for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2743	Thank you for the question. I do not think the representative, Mr Hemdal, should be concerned about whether we want the toalisator fee to be removed for good. My impression is that it will also be the rest of the government. So I wouldn't be so very worried. I guess the representative knows that the reason why you do not support that kind of proposal in the room today is that you have not had time to get into it, that you have not had a proper round of it. Having said that, I think the representative can be quite certain that we are going to work here so that it will not be reinstated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2748	Finally, the Left has at least had time to get into it, and the Left will at least support that proposal by the Progress Party. That's what they said from the pulpit, too. Back to what the representative from the Right said: I think it is a little strange that the representative from the Central Party calls it a ‘overdramatisation’, at least all the time she spent volunteering is very busy with these 50 million VAT compensation, and ignores the fact that the VAT compensation system has increased significantly over the last period. She also disregards the fact that, for example, the Ministry of Knowledge budget. has given 30 million. kr extra to just volunteering, targeted at immigrant organisations. So the voluntary budget goes well plus what was underpinned by the former government. What I'm wondering about today is that the Central Party representative doesn't even want to evaluate the gift enhancement scheme, when even the volunteer here is involved in saying that this is dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2757	Thank you for the question. There aren't so many volunteers talking to me about this, at least. The big recipients are the museums, big institutions. There are really very few others who get to participate in the arrangement. They have to have muscles to do extensive work trying to get sponsors, in order for this to give a big boost to it. It's much more important for both me and the Center Party to process the cultural crowns in a better way. I would rather have arrangements that they can apply for less and also volunteering, rather than maintaining such a biased and inappropriate system. Having said that, I would also like to remind you that volunteering has rarely or never raised so many other issues than the VAT compensation. So it's good to stay away from the fact that you were on a budget proposal where you're actually cutting 50 million. kr, is a little bit towed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2762	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2767	There is not a single budget debate for the family and cultural committee in this Chamber, but we are discussing the gift-enhancing system, and with a pen stroke, the government has made sure that we also have to discuss it this time. As mountainers I have to say I react a little to that Bergen, and the fact that we have capable and good donors there, almost being mentioned in this hall as a scoring word because one manages to raise private capital. If it hadn't been for the mountains and business around, we wouldn't have been Norway's cultural capital. At least it's not thanks to the priorities of previous governments in here. But maybe that's exactly what's behind the motivation: Now you want even more bureaucracy over who gets money in volunteering. The same is true in cultural life. Now there are bureaucrats and politicians who are going to sit and decide who is going to get the money. I would also like to remind you that there is a division of bias in the country from before, for which all governments have to take responsibility, based on how much money you get for volunteering and – perhaps especially – culture. There's a lot to deal with, and there I can at least reveal that Hordaland is far from being the best person to get out of the capital. My fear is that now it is the capital that applies, and there are the few projects that the ruling parties are now supporting, which are going to have the opportunity to get money. At least I think it's very, very cowardly – whether it's allowed to use that word – that you couldn't even evaluate this system until you changed it or ended it. That's why it's disappointing that today only the Right and Left are on our proposals. Now there have been many rounds of VAT compensation for volunteering. The progress party is clear: we want a rule-driven arrangement instead of a framework allocation. The government parties have been talking about full VAT compensation today, but I note that no one has announced that they will actually support a concrete proposal from the Progress Party that is just about this. The same applies to our proposal No. 3, on VAT compensation for sports facilities. Here I should be so clear as to say that, in fact, the government – if not all of the years – has fully compensated, but we believe that it is also right that this rule should be governed and that this right should be attached. Proposal No. 4 applies to the totalisation fee. We want to confirm that this is a non-re-introduction fee, and unfortunately it is so far in the debate today that only the Left has announced that they want to support our proposal on this. Otherwise it is quite correctly observed, what I was taken for in the pulpit instead: Yes, the Progress Party is cutting mass in the cultural budget. It's actually an important task, at least when you see how market-dominating, for example. The NRK has remained today. This is close to 7 billion. NOK which we believe could eventually have been used on completely different things. At least we started with our budget this time, by cutting over 2 billion. kr. We also cut some media support, and we cut in artists' scholarships. I record that many people think it's very, very nice that you're now strengthening the artist tips. This happens at the same time as there is a survey in the VG that artists make between 1 and 5 million. DKK per year and nevertheless paid for a salary of 460000 kroner per year. So, yes, the Progress Party is standing high in this debate, and that is why we also want to cut the appropriations for church and religious communities. At the same time, we are aware that priority should be given to children and young people, while at the same time giving priority, for example. coastal culture. I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2799	The representative Silje Hemdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2806	As the representative, Mr Hemdal, said, one of the alternative budgets of the Progress Party will cut billions of dollars. It can be done, among other things: So it's going to be $5 million. SEK to Ministry of Culture, 450 million. kr to the Council of Culture, etc. Not enough for a cut in the money of those who want to produce art and culture, a cut in the money of those who distribute culture. At the same time, in the alternative budget of the Progress Party, the cultural sector is to be promoted as an industry that creates jobs across the country, for culture is an industry that creates ring-fences for other sectors. There are probably some of us, me and the representative from the Progress Party. But my question is, does one not have a scene to convey on, or artists who are able to develop art and culture, how and where does the representative of the Progress Party see that culture is to be disseminated abroad?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2811	Thank you for a very good question, because that's what the Progress Party loves to answer. That's right, we're the only party that does big cuts in a lot of fields, among other things. in the cultural sector – which I am very proud of. At the same time, we have been crystal clear about offering for, among others. priority shall be given to children and young people and cultural memories. I can ask you a little bit back, because we're in a very lucky situation in this country, where we have an incredible amount of money initially. Far from all countries, we are assimilated to the lucky situation we are in, and it is not that in any other country where not every offer in culture is state-funded by taxpayers' money, there is no culture, rather the opposite. I believe in minimal state interference in regulation, but also funding cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2818	Thank you for your reply. Contrary to the Progress Party, the Labour Party spends a lot of money on culture, because it is important for artists to be able to live on culture and just give us a good cultural offer throughout the country. But I didn't get a very clear answer on how to make it a good nutrition. How will the Progress Party build this up into an important industry, which is important for creating culture, if it doesn't invest in it through the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2825	It's very simple. Culture, is industry — as all other industries. It's not like the Progress Party regulates in detail, as some other parties like to do, how business is going to run itself. That is precisely the great ideological difference between the Progress Party and other parties. We think that people are able to think for themselves. But of course – in this Chamber we adopt important framework conditions, and we adopt, for example. the tax burden and the tax burden. I think this is a little strange from the Workers' Party, which is very excited to regulate more of people's freedom in everyday life, including business, and which has also gone to the elections to want to increase taxes and taxes for many of those who run these jobs, for example. with the taxes on wealth. No, we probably have different solutions to this. We want less regulation of taxes and taxes, while the Workers' Party wants more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2830	The Central Party fully agrees with the Advance Party that it is important to take care of the churches we have around the country and that they are an important part of our cultural heritage. At the same time, the Centre Party considers that that cultural heritage is also protected and best protected through use. The Church is an important tradition and culture bearer of communities and acts as a people's church to which we support both the best and the heaviest days of our lives. This activity is also a major contribution to the maintenance and maintenance of church buildings in the country. The Progress Party has proposed, in its alternative budget, to increase the funding for the maintenance of church buildings, but at the same time they cut in the support of the Norwegian Church. This will help to reduce the activity of church buildings around the country. We know that an empty house is failing faster, and with the proposal for the Advance Party, the church buildings will become empty and the maintenance will become larger. Does the Progress Party, in fact, want to hit the cultural heritage in Norway as strongly as they do with that cut-off proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2837	No, rather the opposite. There are churches around the world that are far from publicly funded. But it's perfectly okay to disagree with the arrangement. However, what we in the Progress Party stressed very strongly when we proposed to wind up or step down this system of support for churches and religious and life-seeking communities is that we should just take care of old churches. What we have now presented, in this budget, is 15 million. SEK 100 million for the maintenance of churches. kr for the maintenance of the medieval churches. That is at least 115 million. kr more than the Centre Party was able to agree with its Government Partner and the Cooperation Party on. So the question could really go back. At the same time, I am very concerned that there must of course be opportunities to fill them with content, but there may be concerts, premises for volunteering and other things. I'm not going to regulate it in detail from here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2842	The Norwegian Church has given quite clear feedback that such a cut in transfers to them will help them to reduce all their activities. They will no longer be able to cover the country. They will not be available or be able to create the activities of the churches that the representative Hemdal calls for. Once again, have you really thought about what the cut will actually do with the church buildings, that we will have many more empty churches than we have today, and that the maintenance needs might increase further than the Progress Party has taken into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2847	It might have been tempting to ask back if you know what it means for churches, institutions and the like that the Center Party is now helping to wind up the gift-enhancing system. It actually means very much the same thing, according to the feedback we get -- the same thing with the halving of the tax deduction. The party of progress has no intention whatsoever of regulating how the churches should govern themselves, but I see that more and more churches out there are thinking new, filling the room with new content, and I'm very proud of that. And of course they have to be able to take rent, like all other actors. We do not intend to wind up all support overnight. This is of course a process, but we're starting here. We believe it's a right signal to send that belief is a private matter that people have to pay for themselves, and then of course we're willing to discuss tax deductions if you give gifts to the church.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2854	I see that one of the alternative budgets of the Progress Party is proposing cuts in very many cultural items. A reference to, as I understand it, that culture should handle itself as a nutritionist. Among other things, it is proposed to cut the working hours of artists up to NOK 0 and to reduce the Culture Fund. I wonder if the representative believes that only the arts and culture that are commercially profitable are important, and whether one believes that artists make better art and are more creative when they are hungry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2860	No, I don't think I'm going to say so much about how people work best, just as I think art can be equally free, regardless of whether you get state aid or not. Rather on the contrary, it is probably true that many today have admitted that they are adapting to these grant and application schemes, with their artistic projects, in order to get money. I like it best when the art is free from political interference, and I want the least possible leadership for it. What I'm willing to discuss is, for example, lower taxes and charges for those with low incomes, of course, and also to look at a scheme for self-employed artists. The point of progress is crystal clear to get 460,000 kroner a year in addition to a income of 5 million. kr is waste.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2870	A cultural life where everyone has the opportunity to participate requires that we support those who stock and communicate art and culture, and make art and culture accessible where people live. SV and the government parties agree to start the escalation to fulfill the promise of 1 pst. of the State budget to the culture. There's a little bit left until we're there, and we're impatient, but we have to do this. Today, I had just planned to bring forward all the good measures SV has proposed in our alternative budget, and what measures have been strengthened in the budgetary agreement between the SV and the government parties. However, we are in the midst of a new crisis for cultural life in Norway. The corona pandemic in turn leads to considerable uncertainty in the industry and an increasing number of cancelled events. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a note on the ageing of the 2021 budget, Chapter 325, item 77, incentives for culture, volunteering and sport ifb. Covid-19. There's a common observation that there's only the Workers' Party and the Centre in an incursion, and that should of course be a majority comment that we're going to be in. I would ask that it be recorded that this comment is also a majority comment from us. In the last few days, I have received many enquiries from cultural organisations, and we have seen in the media that artists and artists are frustrated and despaired. They are asking for concrete instructions and more accurate incentives immediately. After yesterday’s press conference — with further closure — there was no less concern. Cultural life has been the first thing that has been shut down, and the last that has been opened, in every wave of infection growth. It's a great industry with thousands of people and jobs. Culture has been living with unpredictable and varied support schemes since March 2020, and now we need to put in place strong enough measures that are taking better than previous schemes have done. The cultural sector is pleased that the Minister for Culture has taken action at the press conference today and that important improvements have been made. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of strengthening the large, solidly established arrangements. In the alternative budget of the SV, we proposed a solid increase to the Culture Fund, the Audiovisual Fund, the Film Fund and the Regional Cultural Funds. These are schemes in which funds are allocated to cultural life in a way that ensures the operation and continued activity of large parts of cultural life. Now this existing tool is being used to compensate, and I am pleased about that. But I think these are schemes that should be strengthened in general, even when it is not pandemic. In addition, I would like to stress that there is a great need to strengthen the cultural base wall, so that children and young people have something to do when they can. Strengthening youth homes, leisure clubs, cultural schools and libraries is now becoming even more important. One of the major steps we are taking in this budget is to provide full VAT compensation for voluntary activity. You do not have to pay to work on a voluntary basis. All the money is going to give the population, especially children and young people, good deals and experiences. In the SV's alternative budget, we also propose to make VAT compensation regulated. It will provide more predictability and certainty for the money to come. In the finance debate, the Minister of Culture promised that she would use the next few months to develop criteria for a regulated scheme, so that this could be included in the consideration of the State budget for 2023. I expect and expect the Minister of Culture to deliver on this. We have also been promised by the Minister of Culture that the cultural share of the games will now be distributed according to the key, and that this share will no longer be used as a balancing item for actions that should have had their own entry in the State budget. It will also have a major impact on voluntary cultural life throughout the country. A prerequisite for a rich cultural life is a decent artist economy, and we are pleased that in the budget agreement there is an agreement to escalate with 100 new scholarships for artists in 2022. We are also pleased that we have started to strengthen the SKUDA, the actress and the dancer alliance, which is to guarantee artists rights and pay between external missions. This has proved particularly important also in the past during the pandemic. Several sectors of culture are now looking with interest at this scheme — especially the music industry, where we have agreed to contribute to the launch of a music alliance of the same model. We welcome several other measures in this budget agreement, such as increased media support, increased support for the use of stage arts and increased funding for the Sami Film Institute and TV BRA. In North Norway, they are now cheering for increased operating support to the world's oldest sailing range, «Anna Rogde».
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2898	I woke up when the representative from SV spoke about coastal culture, because I am very concerned about that. The progress party just secured «Anna Rogde» this money last year, and I'm very happy that SV managed this time, because our proposal is as well-known as voted down this year. I wondered if the representative from SV could say something about what expectations you have in the future – I believe that you should continue to cooperate with the government parties and negotiate – in order to put the coastal culture where it belongs. I know that the delays in maintenance in the area of ship protection are very great, and the need is great. I wondered if the representative from SV could say anything about the coastal culture and the protection of vessels and what they are going to require the government to invest in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2905	Thank you very much for a very good question. I am very happy that the Progress Party also has a focus on it. There is a lot of great and important coastal culture, and there are also more ships than ‘Anna Rogde’ that absolutely need maintenance and that need operational support. With «Anna Rogde» it is particularly important that there is not only a boat going on water, but that there is also a boat where they are engaged in knowledge dissemination, youth work and many important things in what they do with that boat, so that's why we have prioritised it. We will continue to fight for coastal culture and the protected vessels in budgetary negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2910	Yes, it promises well. If SV needs suggestions for more ships and boats, they can, among other things. look at some of the proposals that the Progress Party and I have promoted, but it is very good if we can have a good cooperation on it. However, what worries me a little bit – I'm going to be honest now and say that I haven't pulled through all the details – is the cultural system that came. It was longed for, now that there were new shut-downs, but the question concerns some of the actors who fell out of the scheme last time, and on which I challenged the previous Minister of Culture, i.e. whether food and drink are Norwegian culture. I hope that SV might press the government parties that it is. There are a lot of food and drink festivals and organizers out there that fell out of the scheme last time, and I wonder if SV believes that food and drink are Norwegian culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2917	Now we were given the Minister of Culture's proposal for action this morning, so I have heard it correctly, verbally, but I do not know all the details of what is in them. But it is clear that the festival life in general is also important for us in SV. We're going to be involved in creating a majority in order for action to benefit cultural life as quickly as possible, but before I say anything more about what we want to focus on, I have to see the details of it and I want to hear what the Minister of Culture has to say about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2922	So to a completely different matter: I understand that the representative is new, and it is difficult when a settlement has just been concluded, to support comments from other parties, but a heartbreak for one's own city still has to be included in a budgetary context. In the past, every year, the Progress Party has been given a unanimous committee to support the comment on the Aquarium in Bergen. Unfortunately, this year only the Right and Left are supporting this, despite the fact that the Workers' Party controls Bergen, and I know that SV went high on the track in Bergen with this as an election vow. Their party leader is also from the city, so I wondered if the representative from SV can assure you that at least in the back room you will read a little about the matter of the Aquarium in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2927	Thank you for this question too. I'm constantly working, all the time, to increase my knowledge in the field of culture and to get involved in all the different institutions, organizations, schemes and everything. It takes some time, so I hope that's an understanding of that. With regard to the individual comments in the setting, it is a bit because of the agreement between the government parties and SV that we have now not entered into them specifically, although I know that both we in SV and the other partners like to have heart issues that we should have raised. But now we have to spend some time working on that, and I'm sure we'll get a better and a little longer process on budget remarks for the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2932	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2938	This year's budget debate is taking place against a serious backstairs. In addition, there is a need to introduce anti-infection measures now when the omicron variant of the coronary virus is spreading rapidly. Once again, it is those who live by gathering people – all the people who work in culture, volunteering and sports – who are hit hardest. They are now worn out after almost two years of action, lack of assignment, closed halls and empty scenes. We would have preferred this to be in addition. However, because of this, the government today has early announced what economic crisis package measures we are now taking to help those affected by the crisis. I am happy to have been able to provide an improved compensation scheme for cultural life and to reintroduce the incentive scheme, spend more money on the existing instruments, such as cultural funds, etc., and spend 100 million. to compensate institutions, museums and theatres, etc. – stage art – for what they're going to experience from lack of self-esteem. That's absolutely necessary. Is there something that we all know now, and what everyone has noticed during the coronary crisis, is how heavy and poor life and society become without culture, sport and the activity that the volunteer arranges. Yes, it is simply a vital sector. Culture is a priority for the new government. We have to raise culture. We're going to continue building culture across the country and giving people – no matter who they are, no matter where they live and no matter the size of their wallet – high-quality art and culture. Then it is important for us that artists and cultural workers are workers, and they should be treated like that. If there's another thing the pandemic has lucky to have brought everyone's eyes up to, it's that these workers have a complex economy, a complex and fragile income and a much worse safety net than other workers. We're going to do something about that. That is why culture throughout the country, especially the artistic economy, and meeting those who have been most hit by the pandemic, are also among the main priorities for the changes we have made in the Appendix to the State budget, together with better conditions for sport and volunteering. We are strengthening various measures on the cultural budget with just under 300 million. kr. We are finally introducing full VAT compensation for sport, volunteering and culture, and with that we are listening to the sector itself and giving them what they want and need the most. It gives teams and associations all over the country more to walk with and more to activity. Not only are we introducing full VAT compensation for next year, but we were able to do so for the current year by also granting 35 million. kr extra in the ejaculation. We are in the process of delivering. We're strengthening the artistic economy by nearly 70 million. through the SKUDA cultural fund and 120 more work grants. We are already delivering on our promise to set up an arrangement for the established stage art companies, which have previously fallen outside of all arrangements, but which still need support. We strengthen the appropriations for films and especially raise Sami films, which I am particularly pleased with. Then we strengthen the press support for the locals. Journalism and the free editorial media are a prerequisite for freedom of expression and democracy, and they are threatened by many groups. The big tech giants suck advertising revenue from the media while censoring content and affecting our lives to a great extent. We're going to better regulate them in the future. We support the work of investigating journalism, which the Centre for Investigative Journalism in Bergen is doing, in order to disseminate knowledge and methods and improve quality journalism. With this, we are in the process of raising culture, and sport and volunteering are better served. So I'm going to end up there: we're in a new round of pandemics. Measures have been necessary. Culture should know that the government is preparing for crisis compensation for the duration of the crisis, and I also look forward to working closely with the Committee and the Council on the measures needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2957	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2962	The expression too small and too late is probably something the Minister of Culture will feel – an expression that was used extensively earlier in the pandemic – when everything was new, when everything had to be done for the first time, when everything had to be investigated, when everything had to be heard and ESA, and when there was another government. I'm going to leave it alone, because when I've been asked by the media today, I've been positive that the government has now made good arrangements, and positive that adjustments have been made. Because I feel that both the previous government and this government have been concerned that the arrangements that have been put in place will work. Then you have to adjust them to the reality of the outside of this building. I have a very specific question about the press release that the department sent out, which concerns the public events scheme. It says: ‘If the infection situation so indicates, the level of coverage will again be set at 50 per cent [[...]] This one has been chosen to add 70 pst. initially. So I'm going to ask you, what are the assumptions that you have to enter in order to reduce it from 70 pst. and down to 50 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2976	I think that the representative could well cost himself a question about this with too little and too late, because we do not deliver too little, and we do not deliver too late. Even before new anti-infection measures were needed, we decided to continue the compensation system until the summer. Now, with the new situation where anti-infection measures are needed, we have made changes to the compensation scheme to make better use of it. There were changes which have been requested for a long time, but which the previous government did not. Then we restored the stimulation system. It is not that, although action has been taken before, new measures do not need to be investigated or sent to a hearing or notified in ESA. That's what we're doing. We deliver, and I'm very happy that this government already a few hours after we alert comprehensive measures, at the same time setting up and telling which compensation schemes will apply to those affected. It was a defect under the rule of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2983	I tried to be a little out of hand with the government and the measures and boasted a little, but it obviously wouldn't accept the council. The previous government probably spent 10 billion. kr, and 1 bn. kr was left in the arrangements of the current government. But again, my intention is that I am happy that the government is delivering, and I hope that the committee and the Council of State can have a good cooperation to help an industry that very often falls between several chairs. My follow-up question may not come as a surprise to one percent of the Council of State, which we have had some correspondence about between several of us here at the Stortinget and the Department. It's an arithmetic that I would expect you to have initially had eight years to set up without too many x's and y's in that equation. So I want now to put the same question verbally: does the Council of State now know with what starting point to calculate this one percent, which is their main promise on the way into the election campaign for the cultural sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2990	I would first like to thank the representative for the rose, but I also realized that there was some hidden criticism in the previous question. But I thank you for all the praise we get, and I definitely look forward to cooperating well with the Committee and the Storting on the way forward through the coronary apathy. I think we'll do that in a good way. When it comes to one percent and the cultural promise, one percent is an instrument to ensure that the cultural share of the state budget is growing proportionately more than the rest of the state budget. The problem today is that we have had a right-wing government that has for eight years left the cultural budget almost silent. Most items in the budget have fallen in their allocations when adjusting for wage and price growth. I think it's interesting that the right-hand side is so intimately concerned about just how we're going to figure this out. The lot has been counted in one way in the opposition. The center part and SV have calculated in a slightly different way. We're going to figure this out together. But what is certain and certain is that under us the cultural budget should increase. If that's the case that the Right and the Representative are interested in these calculations because they themselves want to fulfill a cultural promise, I can say that you can start by adding to the cultural budgets. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e2999	Yes, it's the eternal overbidden competition in today's debate about who's going to give the most, and how many billions, percents or promills and calculations and all that. But there's the Progress Party alone. We want to cut the cultural budget. However, I know that what I and the Council of State have agreed on before is the film-incentive system, and that you should look at the possibility of making it rule-driven. It is also a good business policy, I believe, and the Progress Party. Now I came to realize that the Council of State has been a little challenged lately, but I wondered if the Council of State could answer clearly if the government is going to put in a rule-based arrangement regarding filmincentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3004	The Film Incentive Scheme is an excellent scheme for attracting foreign film productions to Norway. It is an important industrial policy tool, because it creates work for so many groups of workers around the country. The problem today is that it is a framework rule, and that means that when other countries around us, such as Iceland and eventually Sweden, have better arrangements, the large film productions go past Norway and where they know they get reimbursement. That is why we have said that we are now embarking on an evaluation of the film-incentive scheme. The Hurdal platform also says that the new government should strengthen it to attract more foreign film productions in Norway, which is a good business policy, but it is also a good film and cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3011	Evaluate – that’s a word like that that politicians are very happy in sometimes in this room. But I hope that at least the Council of State's commitment is in the same place as it was before she entered the role. Here there is a huge potential for Norway to claim, and we know that very many want to go to just Norway. What I was wondering, since I can't get a clear answer to that right now, is whether the Council of State can give me a clear answer as to whether there will be a matter for the Stortinget concerning regulated VAT compensation for voluntary activity, since none of her colleagues on the Stortinget have been able to give me a clear answer when I ask why they do not support the proposals of the Progress Party today. I wonder if the Council of State can give me some better assurances than her colleagues here in the Chamber that this is something the government will support, even if you do not support the Progress Party today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3018	It's really a simple explanation of why we don't deliver regulated VAT compensation this year, and that's the simple explanation that from the time we joined the government to the supplementary proposition, you had about a week to make changes. If you want a rule-based VAT compensation, you have to make the rules for the device, for who qualifies, and for what it looks like. It'll take some time. However, the important thing is that the VAT compensation is not only full, in reality – it becomes unabated for the next year, but also for the current year. Then I am very happy that the Progress Party has finally turned around and is with us in the view that the VAT compensation should be full, so that teams and associations throughout Norway get paid back every penny they pay in VAT on goods and services. That's good volunteering policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3023	It is good that the compensation scheme now allows for the events to go with profits that can be used to pay artists and subcontractors wages in addition to the year. But that it should not be allowed purely profit, we are pleased. So the cultural industry has been very critical that there has been an amount limit on compensation of 3.5 million. kr in the compensation scheme of the previous government. They point out that several people have lost tens of millions of kroner at cancelled events only for December, and they were unable to see if there would be any change in this now, according to what was said earlier today. Nor could one see if there were any solutions to the loss of remuneration for creative artists. I wonder if the Minister of Culture can say anything about what is going on around this with the limits on the amount of compensation and the guarantee of loss of reward for the creative artists?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3029	It's probably not all the details that the press releases give answers to, but we have good web pages that are going to post all the information people need to know. The regulations are to be made now, and there are also some details that we have not finished screwing completely together. The amount limit is the same, but what is important is that the sum of schemes – changes in the compensation scheme that take better account of the cycle economy of artists and subcontractors, and the incentive system – make it possible for us to have packages that hit more and that hit more better. The government has said today that we are not strangers to see if there is a need we haven't caught up with, and whether changes are needed along the way. We will follow along and keep in touch with those who are affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3034	I want to start with a little comment on what goes on in one percent. I think the reason that several of us have wondered about it, has been about that if this is an instrument, it would have been good to know what the instrument is. But I take note that neither does the Minister of Culture think this instrument is so very important. I agree that we don't need to talk so much about that in the future. What is important now are the compensation schemes I am very happy that today has been presented. The big question now remains is when cultural life can actually expect all of this to come into place, and whether you can be sure that the time you've been in now will also be adequately compensated. It is not the case that the measures that came yesterday gave rise to a really great need. The need was already there. Nor is the notification process new, but making changes requires longer processes. When will these new arrangements and changes actually be in place, and when will the payments be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3041	As I said, we had continued the compensation system even before there was a need for anti-infection measures now. It will apply from 1 November and will thus hit many. The incentive mechanism that we are restoring will apply from 8 December, when the measures came into force. This needs to be briefly consulted, and it needs to be notified in ESA, but the important thing here is that cultural life now knows what framework is coming, and knows on what basis you can get compensation. Then we will ensure that the entry into force takes place as soon as possible, and I expect that the Storting is still cooperative. We are now doing everything we can to do the Cultural Council and the NFI and those who process these applications, even better able to handle the amount of applications as quickly as possible. So to one percent, I think the opposition is remarkably concerned with how we're going to calculate. What they should be concerned about is we're going to increase the state budget. But I realize that it's easier to discuss computation than actually dealing with strengthening the cultural budget, which the previous government didn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3050	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3055	Arts and culture contribute to the creation of good and living communities and a good life for individuals, but today there are too large class divisions in people's cultural practices and great inequalities in the kind of cultural services available in different parts of the country. The government will do something about that. Culture shall be lifted and the share of culture in the State budget shall again be increased to 1 pst. It is about raising the importance of art and culture, recognising artists and cultural workers, and not least ensuring a good cultural offer of high quality to people throughout the country. Who you are, where in the country you live, and how good advice you have, should not be an obstacle to experiencing and participating in cultural offerings. Art and culture bring people together across ages, religion and ethnicity. It helps create new meeting places and shared experiences. It builds identity and gives mastery. It makes fun and meaning in people's everyday lives. I am pleased to have a new government that is betting on concrete measures to strengthen the cultural effort. I myself come from the smallest municipality in Norway, Utsira. Here art and culture play a significant role in people's everyday lives. The reason is that we live in a country that pursues a policy that allows a municipality of 200 inhabitants to also have access to a rich art and cultural life. One of these offers is the Building Dekino. The building site has been a symbol of district policy in practice for over 70 years and is an equally important meeting place today, especially in those places where there are not so many people and offers. Once a month, the Builds Cinema comes and has two views at the local school, one for children and one for the slightly older ones. This is the great happening of the month. A lot of adults go on both views, no matter what movie goes on, and they'd like to want more, because on Utsira, it's not easy just to go to the nearest municipality to go to the cinema, when the last chance to get home by boat is seven o'clock in the evening. One doesn't take a hotel overnight to go to the movies. That's why the Building Cinema is highly valued in a municipality like ours and in similar communities around the country. Movies are best at cinemas, but in order to make an offer, the Build De cinema depends on having technical equipment that is up-to-date. It's been over ten years since the country's cinemas were digitized, and the equipment is getting old. Soon it will be impossible to obtain spare parts if things are destroyed. This is why we are giving priority to increasing the allocation to the Building Decine, so that they can upgrade their equipment and ensure that cinema offers can be maintained throughout the country in the future. In addition to maintaining important offers for people, we also need to ensure that art and culture can be created throughout the country. We have to recognise the artists. This is a low-paid profession, many of which are freelancers who do not have the same social rights as ordinary workers. The government will make sure that they can spend more time creating art. That is why we are giving priority to increasing the appropriations by 120 new scholarships in 2022. The artist tips are a rigorous tool that will mean that even more artists can have the opportunity to spend their time creating more art. An artist who lives in Utsira told me recently that she had received such a scholarship, and she was overjoyed. Finally, she could concentrate on her work and at least for a period of time not taking what was available from straws, to get the economy to go around. Art and culture are important to us people. It is important for the communities around the country and not least for those workers who are part of the industry. That's why we're going to continue to work to facilitate artists and cultural workers getting better rights and work opportunities, because we need more art, and because we want a living cultural life across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3068	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3073	First of all, I would say that the government wants a life-visioned society where everyone has respect for and knowledge of the view of life of others, to others' faith and non-truth. Then I'll talk about church buildings. The church building is some of the foremost cultural memories we have here in the country. They tell about the use of materials, craft traditions, rituals, representations and architectural development from the Middle Ages to the present day. The financial responsibility for construction lies either with the municipalities, where it is a parish church, or it may be in private ownership, for example. at the Premature Memory Unit. We know that there may be a demanding responsibility at times, and corruption and government have therefore meant that it is important to make an extra effort for these building for future generations. Many of the church buildings are in poor condition, and I am so glad that we now – as I also mentioned in the line change – have a plan for refurbishment that will ensure both the antiques and the church needs. In these days, the Riksantikvaren is commissioned, in cooperation with the Norwegian Church, to provide advice on a conservation programme and a strategy for rehabilitating the cultural-historically important churches. This is a follow-up to the decision of the Storting to restore our old churches to the extent that they correspond to the values that the State will possess after sharing the Information Society's funds. The Riksantikvaren shall deliver its report to the Ministry on 1 December of next year. After 200 years without clarification on the ownership of the Information Society's fund, Stortinget adopted a new law on the fund. The laws lay the legal basis for sharing the fund between the Norwegian Church and the State in accordance with Stortinget’s decision. The work on sharing is well under way and will seriously speed up when the promise comes into force at the end of the year. The Church is the owner of many pastoral buildings, which are to benefit a nation-renowned church for many years, and sharing the values of the fund provides the basis for a significantly strengthened effort to renovate and secure the churches in the years to come – and that is good. We are now going to meet the Christmas holidays, and like many others, the Norwegian Church and other belief and life-view societies have been given the call for new measures to prevent infection and to limit them in numbers. I would like to thank you for the work that has been done to ensure that churches and other houses of God are not shut down under the pandemic. It's important to people, both in Christmastime and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3086	Cultural life has been particularly challenging in recent years. I am pleased that the government has put in place good compensation schemes and incentives, which were needed at the time of closure again because of the impact of cultural life. The pandemic has helped to strengthen the need for a cultural promise. Under the Solberg government, culture has gained an increasingly smaller share of the state budget. I am therefore pleased that the Big Government has a goal of 1 pst. the State budget shall be used for cultural purposes. This budget takes good action to strengthen the field. The centre party wants living communities throughout the country, filled with meaningful activities and experiences. An inclusive and diverse cultural life is part of giving it to us. It is then important to take action to ensure increased investment and to strengthen local and regional cultural services. The most important step now being taken is to ensure full VAT compensation for volunteering — instead of cutting the 50 million scheme. kr, as the Solberg government wanted to do. This will benefit volunteering, cultural life and sport. It will now widen, and it will facilitate increased activity. This is a clear signal that we want to strengthen volunteering and the ability to continue to create safe meeting places, a diversity of activities, a community and the good community. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this budget increases support for the children's and youth organisations by 4 million. kr. It is good, to give children and young people the opportunity to engage, to follow their own interests and to contribute to the development of society is a right priority, and it will be based on taking these values forward in life. As mentioned earlier, cultural life has been severely affected by the pandemic and the various restrictions that have been imposed. We had a cultural life that was about to rise again when the new measures came. In the future, we need to focus on how we can help cultural life in the best possible way. Here we have to work together to find the good arrangements that ensure that we have a cultural life even after the pandemic. I was impressed by how the Storting in common, across parties, worked to get good action in place at the last shutdown. It creates security and facilitates a form of predictability. I hope that the Storting will again cooperate well to put in place new arrangements, and that together we can contribute to raising cultural life again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3101	Red will provide children and young people with the opportunity to participate in organised everyday leisure activities, which is particularly important to facilitate now under the pandemic. Unfortunately, the cultural school is inaccessible to many children in families with poor advice, and the annual price varies widely between municipalities. Red will introduce a maximum price in the cultural school so that more children can benefit from cultural education across the country. Red believes in the ownership and trust of young practitioners and therefore proposes a separate grant scheme for youth-driven cultural projects. In addition, we want to strengthen the cultural school bag. I spoke to a friend and cultural worker who said this to me: culture is important for democracy. It's not just to be created and enjoyed by the elite. In order to make it possible, in order for culture to become diverse, strong, possess new forms, new ideas and cities of criticism of power, artists and cultural workers must also be guaranteed their rights and arrangements. Cultural policy left to the market will only create the art that they with the most money demand, and it will only be people with a solid economy who can afford to be performers. A secure artistic economy and strong public instruments to stimulate cultural life in a broad sense are therefore essential for Red. That is why we set up several scholarships for artists, increase the grant rates, the appropriations and the grant schemes. In parts of the world artists are being persecuted, and Red supports the establishment of residences for threatened and persecuted artists. Culture can enrich our lives and put words on feelings that are difficult to verbalize. It brings out laughter, joy, abhorrence and sorrow. We can feel the cohesion when the bass breaks like a heartbeat in the room, or on the absolute solitude of a undressed monologue that grips you around the heart. But catharsis, culture, and palsy do not pay rent and do not provide for a safe old age. We've seen under the pandemic how vulnerable cultural life is, and how vulnerable it can be to work within cultural life. The corona epidemic has hit the whole range of the cultural sector very hard. Red therefore extends in our alternative state budget the compensation arrangements for organisers and subcontractors in the cultural sector and the benefit to self-employed and freelancers until 1 July. It is absolutely necessary to prevent the cost of disease prevention measures from being taken by artists and cultural workers and the loss of important cultural actors on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3118	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3135	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3152	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3169	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3186	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3193	Sometimes important and correct information can be the difference between life and death. This is particularly true in the health and care sectors, and is true whether you are in a hospital, in a hospital or in a hospital or in a permanent hospital. Therefore, it is so important that everyone has access to and the ability to retrieve updated patient information at all times. Not very many years ago, the flow of information took place via fax. Now the Internet has taken over. This bill will strengthen and facilitate digitisation in the healthcare sector by ensuring patient safety, privacy and the efficient use of public resources. The proposal authorises the Ministry of Health and Health to oblige establishments to make available and use e-recipes, national core journals, health Norway.no and Norwegian health networks while also requiring enterprises to pay for the management and operation of the solutions. I think everyone sees the need for stronger interaction in the eHealth field and that it is essential for patient safety that all relevant actors implement the solutions. I would also like to point out that it is important for all parties to be listened to during development, so that operation and use become as relevant as possible. The Health and Welfare Committee has dealt with the matter quickly. A written consultation round has been carried out, with five replies received. The KS believes that the proposal as it is from the department, undermines the autonomy of the municipalities, and that it should be up to each municipality to decide when things should be put into practice. In addition, they are critical to the charge related to payment. The Medical Association and the Pharmacy Association believe that this should be fully covered by the State. It should also be mentioned that more consultation replies were received during the preparation of the matter by the Ministry, and there was a clear picture of the positiveness of patient organisations to the use of these facilities. The hearings may be summarised in the reply to the Joint Organisation of Disabilities, which states: ‘We all too often experience that services across levels and between businesses lack essential and critical patient information in order to provide proper follow-up and treatment.’ There is a great deal of excitement in how far the various establishments have come with the introduction of e-health. Hospitals have come a little way. Some municipalities have come a long way, such as my own municipality, Larvik, which has used e-prescription in the municipal health and care service. In order to ensure the necessary speed of deployment and establish the principle that businesses pay for use, this matter is important, but not least because it will provide safer patient treatment throughout the country, with up-to-date information and a reduction in the number of mistreatments. The majority of the Committee, having regard to the replies to the hearings, has argued that the obligation for municipalities to make use of the solutions cannot be determined until a substantial proportion of the municipalities have made available or put into use the individual solution. The majority of the Committee has also promoted two request decisions to ensure that the growth of costs is addressed in the national eHealth governance model. Finally, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre's party, I have submitted an additional proposal for B I, which we hope to join in discussing the cost increases directly with the KS via the consultation system. With this I recommend the setting of the committee majority and take up the proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3224	The representative of Truls Vasvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3229	I am pleased that the government is continuing the work of the Solberg government to increase the digitisation of the health and care sector by presenting this proposition to the Stortinget. The changes proposed by the Patient Records Act to increase the number of municipalities and health care establishments to use the national e-health solutions e-recipt, national core journal, healthnorge.no and the health network are important. It's important for us to get closer to realizing the goal of one citizen, one journal. It is important for us to advance the digitisation of the health and care sector. It is important for us to have better interaction between the levels of government. But most importantly, we need to ensure that patients receive safe and good health and care services. We know that relevant and necessary health information that follows the patient through the patient’s course can be essential for the healthcare service to be able to provide the patient with adequate and proper healthcare, including: so that health professionals do not have to make health assessments based on incomplete information or that the patient himself must be the bearer of information that is critical to their treatment in a potentially critical situation. The OECD Health Report of the 21st century also shows that healthcare is 10–15 years behind other sectors in terms of exploiting the potential of digitisation. When the consultation period for legal work expired in August, 195 consultation replies had been received. Most respondents came from the municipal sector, which was largely negative to the legislative changes. In particular, the local government sector had two concerns. The first concern is that the Ministry will be given too large powers to impose on municipalities an obligation to implement national eHealth solutions, and the second concern is that municipalities do not believe that the Ministry should be able to impose on establishments and municipalities in the healthcare sector to pay for the operation and management of national eHealth solutions. I can understand the concerns of the local government sector, but this is not black and white. It is not that these regulations will come overnight, and I do not think that is in the ministry's interest either. There will continue to be dialogue and cooperation between the municipalities and the ministry on this subject. But by going into the changes in the patient journals law, the ministry has more tools to get ahead of digitisation in the health and care sector, and that is a signal that we need to increase the pace of digitisation. The right is going to support the legal changes in the patient journal law as a whole. Digitisation will continue, and it will provide the ministry with more tools. However, we are not going to support the proposals of the other parties in the matter – not because they are not relevant, but because several of these issues are clarified, and because we require further dialogue and cooperation between the department, the local sector and other actors to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3246	As the case-speaker has done well, legislation that is being handled here in Stortinget today is about a new framework for the application of national e-health solutions by all parties in the health and care services. The contents and the reality of the matter have been a much-reported theme. There has been a considerable lack of understanding in the process of allocating the facilities and weighting of responsibilities and funding. Through previous initiatives, such as Akson, it has also been shown that the state has had major challenges to manage, to facilitate and to roll out adequate solutions for all parties in the healthcare service. Here I also want to look at the investigation from the National Audit Office, which is now being handled by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the Grand Duchy. The fact that a political formula has now been found to make these legal adaptations in the Stortinget is, for the Central Party, much about the mention of several elements in the legal text. Among other things, there is a strong plurality to include in the last section of Section 8: «Requirements concerning the obligations of municipalities under the second and third subparagraphs may not be determined until a substantial proportion of the municipalities have made available or put into service the individual solution.» This will then form the basis for more robust frameworks for municipalities. At the same time, there is also today a loose proposal which gives the government a clear task of discussing the annual changes for the municipal sector in the consultation arrangements with KS. Although the Stortinget now lays down legal frameworks for the regulation of responsibilities and funding between States and all actors in health and care services, there are high expectations of better achievement of objectives and, not least, a more proportionate responsibility between development and operation and the maintenance costs. In summary, e-health solutions could potentially increase health security and seamless interactions across healthcare services. Then I am glad that the government has chosen an offensive hold in the Hurdal platform with a clear measure of this. It sees a government that will meet its needs and priorities in the formulation of practical policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3266	As the rapporteur said, there was a fax or taxi tour around from hospital to hospital with pictures, but fortunately it is starting to be a few years ago. I think it's incredibly important that the right information comes, and that you talk to each other throughout the healthcare system, that you can talk, and that there are whole systems. National coordination is important, which is also in this case. I must also, for the part of the Advance Party, give feedback such as, among other things. The pharmacy association has come along, expressing concern that a service is being imposed on the authorities, and then it is also required to pay for it as a private operator without being able to affect the costs. That is why the Progress Party has put forward a proposal on the subject, for which we hope, of course, that we will be able to have a majority, even if it looks a little bad, because we are alone. Then I also thought it was nice to listen to the representative from the Right who agreed very much that this was important, this was good, but nevertheless chooses to vote against parts of it. I think it is good to have a consultation system, and that KS, together with the state, when you have that consultation system, can actually discuss the costs. It may end up with a huge increase in costs, and then it makes sense that there is a discussion and a dialogue around it. For the Progress Party, it is important to have high and clear control of costs, and I expect that both the Council of State and the Department will also be concerned, because it is about us being able to do this in the most reasonably possible way, but making sure that correct information comes out, because it can actually be about life and death. I would like to raise the motion for a resolution on the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3275	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3280	I would like to start by saying that it is important to put in place systems that ensure access to correct patient information regardless of where the patient is treated, which allows for this amendment. We're looking forward to this coming into place. At the same time, we in SV want to express a concern about the changes in the patient journal law. These changes will result in a shift in the balance of powers between the State and the municipality, and this bill will be able, by law, to oblige municipalities to apply and pay for solutions that do not provide local benefits, either because they are not adapted to municipal needs, because they cover only a very small part of the municipal health and care service, or because they are not the target of the service. This is contrary to the leading principles of local democracy. We in SV believe that the government here has hastened, and that they have inherited a proposal from the Solberg government, a government that was not particularly known for listening to local democracy. So here you have an example of a government that is hasty. I am surprised that the Central Party has chosen not to listen to the municipalities in this matter, and KS points out that this will bind municipal income for a long time to come. At the same time, I must express my pleasure at the fact that the government parties today propose that the KS should have a word with the team in terms of costs. This will respond to some of the needs of municipalities for cost control, although this does not fully address the challenges. In conclusion, I would like to inform you that we in SV will vote in a second place for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3293	Is the representative going to include proposals in the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3298	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3304	The representative of Marian Hussein has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3309	There is a consensus that there is a need for stronger interaction in the field of eHealth. It's important for us in Red to listen to what the KS and the Medical Association say here. Because, like the recordings that come from the KS and the Lege Association, we believe that the proposal, which is really from the Solberg government, cannot be adopted in its present form, but needs improvements. That is why we propose that the government return to Stortinget with a new bill on interaction on e-health solutions. National joint healthcare solutions must be financed by the Community. Both the KS and the Lege Association express very clear concern about the consequences of the bill. That's why it's good that there's been a loose proposal today, and more proposals gradually, that improve this particular area, but it doesn't actually solve the whole problem. Health services are a sector in which any imposed cost to a national supplier will go straight from the bottom line. In fact, it is essential that the State itself is responsible for financing the development and deployment of national infrastructure of which it owns. It must also apply to national digital health interaction services. There have been discussions several times before, and parties who are now in government have been quite clear on what should really be the matter here. What I would like to point out, which is also quite important, is that KS asks that the bill be rejected and sent back to the government, like the proposal that Red is now promoting with SV. The justification is a broad range of powers and regulations on the use which undermine the right of self-determination of municipalities and, in the worst case, on the health care of citizens. It's serious. The Medical Association believes that in addition, the legislative proposal does not resolve the issue related to the management of IT developments in the sector. Of course, we support all the improvements and are therefore in favour of several proposals now, and we are going to vote in favour of the solution proposed by the government parties today. We will also vote subsidiaryly for proposals from the government parties and more on Section 8 new fifth paragraph. If there's any suggestions we're part of that that's not taken up, I do, but I think everyone's taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3322	Thank you, everything should be properly taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3327	The proposed amendment is primarily about patients. Ensuring that the right information is available at the right time and in the right place is essential to the trust in our common healthcare system. Health information must follow the patient, and it must rest on a common ground wall. At the same time, we must provide flexibility and room for opportunity. The four national joint solutions that this legislative change takes into account, I believe, are addressing what is most important. They are necessary to provide good and equivalent health and care services to citizens and to ensure patient safety, privacy and efficient use of public resources. Although the use of eHealth services has increased in recent years, it takes too long to introduce new solutions. This affects quality and patient safety. I believe that the legislative changes will contribute to better quality and safer and more efficient services. We need funding models that better facilitate step-by-step development and implementation of the solutions. I believe that the proposal to charge for management and operation provides for the possibility to create a flexible financing model that will stimulate the use of solutions and take advantage of the service. In order to succeed in implementing the measures, close cooperation is needed between the State and the local authorities. We need to involve the services in the prioritisation work. It shall take place both politically and through the national eHealth governance model. I want close dialogue with the KS in the future. Among other things, I would like to discuss the obligation to use national e-Health solutions before the municipalities are ordered to do so. I also support the Committee's recommendation that the obligation be introduced only when the majority of municipalities have implemented this solution. It is also important and proper to evaluate the price models when we have gained experience with the new payment scheme. We're going to get to that and want to do it by 2024.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3347	Now I've got my breath a little bit back after a little marathon bite in the basement here. What's important is that there's a lot of talk about the municipal sector here, but if you also read the answers, you have, for example, The JRC, the Community Organisation for the Disabled, and the Health Authority, which are concerned with patient safety, have also been very aware of the importance of these changes in order to ensure that more digitisation is achieved and to ensure that patients also receive a better provision of health and care services. What I want to ask the Council of State is that a proposal has been made in the Chamber of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and others that one should not impose obligations until a significant proportion of municipalities have implemented these solutions. I would just like to ask the Council of State what she thinks is a significant proportion of the municipalities – provided that this proposal is adopted in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3354	I agree with the representative Svardal Bøe that those who want to benefit primarily from these changes are the patients, and it is also reflected in the answers to the hearing. So the representative asked me what ‘significant share’ would mean. There are four national, comprehensive e-health solutions that we are now going to develop functionality, and then it's important that we get with everyone. My experience is that the municipalities are good at implementing new digital solutions that they see useful. Now it's about getting everybody, the last tailhang, and we're more than willing to have a dialogue with KS about finding the right level. But the law allows here to introduce obligations for use — and also the principle that those using services also pay for their management and operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3359	It was also a little bit of the point of my post, that what we're doing today is kind of not saying that now comes the duty right away, but we're giving the ministry a tool to come up with an obligation and an order. But I assume that before the Department and the Council of State take advantage of this opportunity, they have a dialogue with the municipal sector and other relevant actors. Then it is also quite clear in the proposition that the investments for the solutions are the state to take, but a request that municipalities also contribute in terms of management and operation. It is also stated in the proposal that, in the case of management and operation, a very high level of compensation should be assessed for the municipalities concerned. Then my second question becomes: can the Council of State say a little more about what a person thinks about a type of compensation if one reaches the ceiling, and what mechanisms might be used to justify such compensation to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3366	It is important and right that the user of the solutions also takes the cost of management and operation. Then we can't make it a problem that the state has taken responsibility for developing new solutions. That's the bill we have to settle together. I think the municipalities agree with us that the principle that the user pays for management and operation is the right principle, but I also understand the concern that running costs are being incurred. There we need to find a common understanding where the state takes responsibility for the development of new solutions, but then it has been decided that once the solutions are developed and put into use, it is those who use them, who also pay for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3371	The Council of State also said in its statement that dialogue and cooperation with the local government sector are important, and I fully agree with that, because it is those who are told to use these solutions both and to pay for their management and operation. But I am also concerned about the patient’s starting point – precisely when I mention the FFO and the Health Authority and many others who also have the patient’s starting point – because, as I said, patients are going to benefit greatly from these solutions by getting better health and care services. So what I'm asking is about the further dialogue and cooperation that the Council of State had in its speech: What other organisations and actors will the Council of State engage in dialogue with? It is important, as I said, to listen to the community sector, but it is also important to listen to patients who are going to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3376	We tend to preserve the user perspective of all the solutions we develop. This is about having a good dialogue with several organisations. For health enterprises, they also operate internally in their organisations, through user advice. It is promised that municipalities are large users here, who are then obliged to make use of the solutions and also pay for them, but it is also important to emphasise that health businesses are involved. So here we have a lot of interface with user organisations. In the whole e-health field, it's important that we have that perspective with us all the time when we're developing new solutions, and that's what we're going to do. I could have mentioned user advice, I could have mentioned other patient and user organisations, they are many, and we meet them regularly.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3382	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3401	The case concerns changes to the Law on Fees, which is about adjusting fees. The Government proposes changes in fees in the justice sector, so that the amount of fees is increased according to what it actually costs to produce the services in question. At the same time, legal fees shall also cover costs based on cost-effective operation, i.e. self-cost. There is an overall committee which supports this legislative amendment proposal. I also point out that it will have consequences for and direct impact on revenue and expenditure in the State budget for 2022. It is also proposed that the amendments should enter into force on 1 January 2022. As I said, there's an overall committee that's behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3408	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3425	The Government proposes to continue the temporary law of 7 May 2020 No. 38 on reconstruction to remedy economic problems caused by an outbreak of covid-19, the Law on Reconstruction. It shall be continued until 1 July 2023 in accordance with the proposal of the Government. It has always been intended that the temporary law should be replaced by permanent rules. Changes in the rules of the bankruptcy law on debt negotiations have been requested for a long time, and in order to ensure good and thorough legal work there is a need for more time than until 1 January 2022, naturally, before permanent changes in the law on reconstruction can take place. Good restructuring rules have a major impact on business and society, and thorough legal work in this area is absolutely necessary. There have also been many good recordings, all the time the temporary law has been allowed to apply, good recordings from, among others. SMB Norway on how to improve and further facilitate the management of companies by means of the Restructuring Act. That's why it's important to do a good and thorough job with the permanent law, which hopefully comes before the interim expires, and to listen to many of the good advice that business itself makes. It is a unanimous committee that supports the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3455	Councillor Emilie Mehl will transfer 1 kgl. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3466	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3477	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3488	There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3800	A total of 22 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from the Holy Place on behalf of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party the proposals No 3 and 4, from Marie Sneve Martinussen on behalf of Rødt the proposals No 5-22, from Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6, 8, 9, 12–14 and 19–22, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to establish models that enable permanent means of operating such as machinery, equipment, etc. to be distinguished. on the balance sheet total in determining the property value of non-listed limited liability companies.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to propose the removal of the right to deduct interest costs on consumer loans.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and to make proposals for taxing the rental of owner-occupied dwellings which are currently tax-free.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to issue a scheme in which a ‘normal income’ from interest rate taxes on hydropower is determined and where excess income is again distributed to residents of Norway’. Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to draw up a sectoral plan with concrete objectives and instruments for the electrification of society.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a proposal to establish a ceiling of 7 billion. dollars in the income tax on land interest from the power industry. Land interest income above this ceiling is assumed to be distributed again to people living in Norway.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to draw up, without delay, direct cost proposals, or alternatively, over 6 years’ depreciation as for petroleum investments, for investments in: sea wind, zero-emission ships and ferries, no-emission fishing fleets, to reduce high point emissions, electrification of heavy transport, and biogas.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how the current VAT system can be converted into an environmental value added tax system. The investigation shall assess how the current VAT rate can be differentiated on the basis of the environmental impact of the products, so that environmentally friendly products are subject to a lower tax and environmental impact products. Thus, the environmental impact of any product will be better reflected in the price of the product, regardless of the country of origin.’» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to design a model for the fee on salmonnus in the farming industry, which provides an estimated proceeds of 900 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 22 sounds: «The government is asking to set up the production fee on salmon, trout and rainbow trout in a way that provides host municipalities with sustainable farming rates [[minimum with escape, lice and release to the environment]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3879	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5, 7, 10, 11 and 15–18, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a proposal that eliminates additional taxes on wages and salaries in the financial sector and, at the same time, increases the tax on profits from financial institutions accordingly to cover the proceeds’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to determine how to increase the taxation of secondary dwellings.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to increase the maximum property tax rate for housing and recreational housing to 7 per mill.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the introduction of a high-bottomed, socially redistributive inheritance tax and an additional progressive rate for inheritance over 20 million. crowns.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the VAT system can be modified to ensure that the tax advantage of the electric car compared to fossil cars in the case of purchases is replicated for the leasing of cars and come back to Stortinget with proposals in the revised national budget.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose the introduction of a CO 2 tax on imported products produced with high greenhouse gas emissions.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to pay a levy on road freight transport in corridors where there is also a railway. The investigation shall assess different types of charges, including a toll charge, as well as their scope of action within the EEA Agreement. The investigation must also assess the routes for which the scheme may be appropriate.’;» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The size of the fleet requests the government to pay an unexpended fee exemption on hybrid and all-electric ships according to the model of the electric car system.’ Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3937	There is a vote on proposal No. Three from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to remove the possibility of collecting tax-free dividends by removing the protective deduction of dividends from shares, and to return to Stortinget with the necessary proposals in the State budget for 2023.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3952	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from Red. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the introduction of a fair and progressive tax on luxury heritage, in order to prevent dynasties where power and huge wealth are tax-free.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3970	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to review as soon as possible whether the municipalities of Wititsøy and Utsira should be moved from zone 2 of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme and return to Stortinget accordingly.’ The Greens and the Greens have given their support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e3987	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, Left and Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests a proposal for a derogation from the CO 2 tax on natural gas used as raw material for hydrogen production where CO 2 is permanently stored.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e11586	Behind the setting are the governmental parties and the Socialist Left Party. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Red Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e11607	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kristoffer Robin Haug on behalf of the Greens the proposals No 4 and 5, from Roy Steffensen on behalf of the Progress Party In order to reduce the number of votes, the President will propose a unified voting order. The primary position of the different batches is clearly shown in the settings, and reference is made to Innst. 2 S for 2021-2022 and Innst. 3 S for 2021-2022. It will in practice mean that when the Stortinge has voted against the minority proposals, none of the parties will vote against the vote's recommendation. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion. No objections have been raised to this proposal – and this will be the case. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to amend the State Pension Fund Act in order to allow the grant of 1 pst. by GNI and direct expenditure from SPU to actions in developing countries without going through the Norwegian State budget. ‘... Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a proposal to amend Section 4 of the State Pension Fund Act in order to enable a new levy imposed on the oil sector to be used directly for the conversion of the Norwegian economy.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose the creation of an SPU II where tax revenue, in addition to ordinary tax revenue from the oil industry, as well as taxes on the oil industry, is passed on to SPU II rather than today’s SPU. The mandate of the Fund shall be to conduct climate investments in developing countries.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e11652	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is requesting the prompt reintroduction of the previous deferred payment scheme due to loss of income as a result of the corona situation.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government requests the suspension of payments as soon as possible to extend the repayment period from 12 to 36 months after the suspension of payments due to the corona situation.’;» The Greens and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12771	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12782	Law decisions will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12801	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12821	During the debate, Mr Kaski presented two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that public procurement is as green as possible under the EU taxonomy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess how ownership can be used to increase the share of green activities by state-owned companies at EU taxonomy.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12920	The Party of Advancement and Red have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12933	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and Red will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12947	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12959	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No 2, from Heidi Nordby Lunde on behalf of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, the Advance Party, and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to further assess whether the municipal occupational pension legislation favours customers who move funds and, where appropriate, to propose to the Stortinget that corrects this without transferring the return risk from the companies to the municipal customers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e12983	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, from the Party of Advancement, from the Left, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess temporary financial measures in connection with the introduction of the pension from the first crown, in order to compensate the employers’ side for increased service costs in order to prevent the brake on the labour market, and, where appropriate, to propose this before the entry into force of the legal framework.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e13358	The third sentence of § 3-19 of the second paragraph is added to the third sentence of I, II, IV to VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e13368	It goes over the rest of the III. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e13382	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e13392	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14330	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14340	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14352	The representative, Mr Nordby Lunde, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14357	Before we go to voting on case No. 11 – and I also believe case no. 12 - I would like to point out, for the sake of order, that the matters were dealt with and dealt with within the Committee, subject to the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the Regulation [[EU]] The cases were brought before the Committee on 7 December. The proposal states that the Stortinget will be informed if a decision is taken in the EEA Committee before the Stortinget has considered the matter. This afternoon the Stortinget was informed that on 10 December the EEA Committee took a decision on inclusion without significant changes compared to the draft in the proposal. The position of the Committee was unanimous and the agreement could then be given without that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14366	Then the Storting is informed about it. The Committee had decided to do the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14425	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14435	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14466	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Grunde Almeland on behalf of Right, Party of Progress and Left the proposals No 2-4, from Silje Hemdal on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked not to reintroduce the totalisation fee. At the same time, it is requested that the exemption from the fee be granted for horse-sport purposes and not for a private foundation.» The left has announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14492	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the revised national budget for 2022 with proposals to amend the VAT compensation scheme for sport, volunteering and culture to be regulated instead of the framework grant’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision requests that the VAT compensation scheme be suspended. 315 item 82 to be attached to the rating.’;» Red has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e14516	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to maintain the gift enhancement scheme and evaluate it before any change, increase or liquidation.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e18890	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e18900	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e20858	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party proposal No 2, from Marian Hussein on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party proposal No 3, from Truls Vasvik on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party and the Red Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a new bill for interaction on eHealth solutions.’ The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e20887	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests that private operators be exempted from the costs of operating and maintaining eHealth regulatory solutions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e20902	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the annual changes in costs for the municipal sector be discussed in the consultation scheme with the KS.’ The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e20986	It is contested in Section 8 new second, third and fourth paragraphs. The Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21000	It is contested in Section 8 of the new fifth paragraph. The Socialist Left Party, the Red Party and the Green Party have announced subsidiary support for the vote. The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21017	It's going to be over the rest of the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21034	Red has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21046	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21056	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. Furthermore, the following were set:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21078	The right has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21181	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21191	The legislative decision will be set up for the second time in a sender’s meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21230	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21240	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-12-14.ana.ud410e21273	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
