ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e28	The representative Anja Ninasdotter Abusland shall apply for parental leave from 15 November 2021 until 18 April 2022. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Eivind Drivenes, is hereby invited to meet in Stortinget from 16 November to 7 April.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e59	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Council of State would meet Ms Hadia Tajik, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ms Anniken Huitfeldt and the Council of State Mr Kjersti Toppe for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Henrik Asheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e68	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. The previous government and the Progress Party agreed in February this year to introduce earnings in public service pensions from the first crown as of 1 January 2023. This is an important step because an elemental part of the pension reform is that work should pay off, even when the pension is calculated. The right has initially considered that this was something the parties themselves should have negotiated between themselves, because there is a high cost for one of the parties: the employer’s side. Nevertheless, we saw that this was something the parties could not find solutions to, and thus the four non-socialist parties went together to introduce this, but some extra consideration was given to employers, who need time to adapt to the rules. Therefore, the then majority also said that temporary compensatory measures have to be considered with regard to employers. In the election campaign, LO asked questions to all the parties. One of the questions was whether you wanted to introduce a retirement pension from the first kroner from 1 January 2022. Both the Workers' Party and the Centre's party answered yes to this question in the investigation. So Monday came the government's supplementary proposition, where it's announced that this will come into place later. On questions from the press about why it was not in the supplementary proposal, Minister of Finance Schlagsvold Vedum replied that for such major changes, more time is needed. The change has a relatively large cost for employers, but not for the country. So this is not necessarily something that needs room in the budgets. Does the Government Council believe that the government parties have led the voters behind the light by answering yes to LO's questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e81	In the Hurdal platform, we are very clear that this is a change that we want to make. We also say clearly that this should be carried out as soon as practicable, and of course we have looked closer to how quickly it will be possible to implement a pension from the first penny. As the situation is today, there is a bill to deal with this issue in Stortinget, and it is difficult to imagine that it could be implemented faster than 1 January 2023. When the proposal is adopted, businesses too may need some time to make the changes needed to be ready for implementation by 2023. There is no doubt that the Labour Party has been engaged in this whole process. We've been in multiple rounds of opposition. We have made the necessary decision on Stortinget while we were in opposition, so that it would be possible to apply the pension from the first penny already in 2023. Some of the hindrance that this could be possible at all – it has not been the priority of the previous government – is the pressure on the Workers' Party in the opposition to form together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e88	What was really my question to the Council of State was whether one experienced that the LO members and the voters had been led behind the light by answering with certainty that this could be introduced from 1 January 2022. The reason for this is that all the reservations that the Council of State now withdraws from the pulpit are the same reservations that the former Prime Minister and the Council of State of the previous government made, namely that it is more complicated than just introducing it from 1 January 2022. The then Labour Party spokeswoman, when the parliamentary leader, Rigmor Aasrud, said that she could not understand why one had to wait until 1 January 2023. My question is really, have you put the LO members behind the light, and what have you now realized, which you didn't understand in the last period?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e95	What I still don't understand is why the right-wing government didn't implement this while they actually could. They've been in government for eight years. They could have completed the pension from the first crown at an earlier date. So they have chosen not to do so. It means that today we are in the situation of signalling, now in November, that we are going to implement this change in January, is practically difficult – also limited to the fact that there is a bill on Stortinget that has to be dealt with strictly before we can take the next steps. I believe that the representative Asheim must take responsibility for the fact that we are in a situation where the pension from the first kroner was difficult to implement before 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e100	There will be follow-up questions – first Henrik Asheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e105	The reason why I am asking this question is that the companies that are in particular going to have an increased cost of introducing earnings from the first penny are the labour-intensive businesses, for example. trade in goods, hotels and services. These are also the companies that have had the biggest challenges under the pandemic that we have now put behind us. Does the Council agree with the Right and the previous government that this would be an excessive cost to the employer’s side – already from 1 January 2022 – given the economic situation we are in? And does the Council of State see the need for temporary compensatory measures against employers when this is to be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e112	It is a free form of disclaimer from a representative of a government that has been sitting for eight years and has not chosen to do so, to put it on a government that has been sitting for 27 days. It would not be possible to apply the practical changes to apply the pension from the first penny in a short time. The responsibility that this is not a reality today is asked by the representative Henrik Asheim and others in the right-wing government. What is important to us in today's government is, of course, to get a pension out of the first crown, which is a fair and good arrangement, as soon as it is practically possible to do so – as we also write in the Hurdal platform. When it comes to the compensation scheme, there is something we have to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e119	Henrik Asheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e124	What is free is probably strictly committed to promising a thing with a sense of security before the elections – and the elections were in September – so that it would not be implemented in November. Therefore, there is reason to ask questions – once you have been so sure that you can introduce it from 1 January 2022 – about what has now happened to the new government parties. What really was my specific question, as well as whether or not the LO members have been led behind the light, is whether or not temporary compensatory measures are in favour of employers – since we know that it is in particular the companies that have worn the most under the pandemic that will now also have an additional cost of this new scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e132	Temporal, compensatory measures are something we have to come back to. What I'm busy about is that we get a pension from the first crown as quickly as possible, which is also mentioned in the Hurdal platform, and which has always been important for the Workers' Party to get implemented, because we were the proponents of this in opposition in all eight years of Henrik Asheim and the government he was part of, did not carry out the pension from the first crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e137	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e142	In recent years, there have been no savings in promises made to ordinary people from the Workers' Party and the State Council itself. There have been strong words, and great promises have been made: ordinary people should have more left in the money book. Last Monday the fasitite came: In the summer thousands of people who have gone unemployed in 2021 will notice it on the wallet when the holiday money is missing. It may not be any of the planned family holiday. Last year, the size decided to introduce holiday pay on a daily basis for 2020 and 2021. The Labour Party supported the proposal of the Progress Party. In the past, state councils have been hard on those who have opposed this scheme, and the Workers' Party promised in its 100-day plan that the holiday money supplement would be permanent. Nevertheless, the Labour Party has not found one penny for this in its budget – not even to reverse the cuts from the right-hand government. At the same time, they have found billions of symbolic climate action and other waste. The truth is that the Labour Party and the Government choose to put the unemployed at the bottom of the table with such priorities. With this budget, the Workers' Party is failing those who have been unemployed this year, who have been promised holiday money and who have planned the family economy. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: how will ordinary people be able to trust what we decide in this Chamber, and that there will be something of it, when politicians jump faster from the promises than Warholm jumps 400 meters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e151	Finally, people in Norway have received a government that prioritises the interests of ordinary people. It also shows the draft budget for 2022. While the right government, as the Progress Party supports all the budgets, prioritised large tax cuts to the richest, we have prioritised the wallet to ordinary people. We have, among other things: reduce the maximum price in kindergartens, increase the amount of commuting, increase the amount of trade union deduction and set up tax cuts to hit the wallet for normal living – rather than those who tend to have a lot of money from before, for which the Progress Party is responsible. When it comes to holiday money for the day, there is something the government is busy doing. It's on the Hurdal platform, and that means it's government policy. When it comes to the budget for 2022, we were forced to make a sound economic assessment. Holiday money on day money would in practice amount to $1.6 billion. kr, and to obtain a deposit for SEK 1,6 billion. kr it can certainly be a lot – such as. The progress point – which means that you should spend oil money just to cover it in, and that it's an easy way to do it. But with increased oil money usage, there was also a greater risk that interest rates would rise, and that it would hit the wallet of ordinary people quite hard. In the holistic economic assessment, which is about being responsible and showing care for ordinary people's economy, let's say six billion. I think it's hard to fit in. But it doesn't change the fact that this government has it in the platform and will implement it during the magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e158	The Council of State says that there are overall economic considerations that make it impossible to get it into its additional proposition. But it does little to help those who have been unemployed in 2021, that the Workers' Party says they're still going to fight for it. Action on words - this is where the Workers' Party fails. The lead party has always been concerned with prioritizing the most important one. With this budget, the government shows what they think is most important: symbolic climate action. They are able to afford large, symbolic climate measures, while excesses in medicines, medical visits and other treatments are increasing. And one of the great promises of the Workers' Party, holiday pay for the unemployed, has been out of the question. People most like to know what tomorrow brings, and therefore my question becomes to the Council of State: What other lifting break can we expect from the Workers' Party now that they are in government and in position, when you were able to solve it in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e167	This government has given a new course for the country, where it is the wallet for ordinary people who are given priority. The representative of the Progress Party says that one should do the most important first. Well, the right government, with the support of the Progress Party, did, was to carry out large tax cuts – in the billion-dollar classes – for those who have the most money from before, while today's government, with the Labour Party and the Center Party, now suggests for 2022, that the money should be used to make it cheaper to commute, cheaper to be professionally organized, cheaper to have kids in the kindergarten. We also give large amounts to Nav to ensure that they can follow users closely and a better way than they can once the Progress Party has implemented large cuts in their operating budget every year. Of course, in the future we will also give priority to the wallet to ordinary people, as we show that we do in the budget for 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e174	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e179	I record in the media that the Minister of Labour is going to Germany to study the regulation of the manning industry. In this connection, I will start by wishing for a really good trip, and I look forward to a good cooperation to complete the manning industry in its present form. An important part of cleaning up the world of work is doing something about the crooked conditions of power. Whole and permanent jobs are a prerequisite for an organised working life and thus more power for the workforce, but it is also essential that we create a working life that people can cope with while they are in their care. Today, too many people leave the labour market as unemployed and not as an old age pensioner. Many — women in particular — work part-time and are given off with small jobs. At the same time, we know that the problem is complex; there are many reasons for part-time work. The struggle for firm, full position, regulated working time, but also leisure time is a central part of our struggle for movement, and the six-hour day was lifted shortly after the battle of the eight-hour day was won. There is also something social democrats have raised in Finland. It has been implemented in municipalities in Sweden, and there is a discussion in Denmark about better allocation of working time. Here we can go back to a 1987 NOU to see how the six-hour working day was raised as a fully feasible choice. I wonder if the Minister of Labour sees that reduced working hours can be one of the solutions needed to achieve a fairer distribution of both health, work, leisure and income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e188	I share much of the analysis of the representative of Bergstø, both linked to the need to ensure more power for the workers over their own working days and not least that we have to facilitate people's work to go to where they have an income to live from. One of the things that this government is going to prioritise is a number of full-time projects. We also write in the Hurdal platform that we set aside money for a full-time pot, that we want to strengthen the right to full-time settings, and not least introduce a documentation requirement linked to those publishing part-time settings, but where one could satisfy the need through more full-time use. So the need to facilitate good and safe working conditions that enable one to live a long and good life in the workplace is important for this government. When it comes to six hours' work day, I would say that I'm not against having a trial project related to it, but it's important for this government that one within the framework of what's a normal day of work is much more likely to experience that one has safe, orderly and serious working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e197	I am pleased that the Minister of Labour is in attendance for initiatives related to more experience around the six-hour day. In Sweden, where this was carried out in several municipalities, it was found that women, who work part-time in the heavy welfare professions, experienced coming home from work with profits. It's a rarity for those who are used to coming home with a bad conscience and working shoulders. We know that in parts of the world of work in Norway, too, it is more common and normal to lose out on work than to become an old age pensioner. I wonder if the Minister of Labour sees that reduced working hours can also do something about how long we last, and how long the competence lasts, and that we can leave the labour market as an old-age pensioner rather than a disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e204	I'm busy being good at work, feeling that there's health and added value, not that it's bad health. So when you see that some occupational groups experience a lot of stress attached to the work situation they are in, it's something I'm busy with, and I want to follow up. Some of the women-dominated jobs also feel that the basic staff at the workplace is too poor, because there hasn't been enough money for it. It may be that one has too little money in one municipality to have enough basic staff, and it may be that one does not have enough money in other ways. At least this government has been busy having a good enough financial framework to secure a basic crew, which means that those who are at work do not feel that they need to run off to do the job they are going to do. We're going to give priority, along with increased organizational levels, and we'll be open to look at possible trial projects related to the six-hour day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e212	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e217	In Franz Kafka's novel «The Transformation» something strange happens to Gregor Samsa. He wakes up one day, cannot turn around, he lies on his armoury back and bursts helplessly with his legs. He's been transformed. Since 13 September, something similar has happened to the Workers' Party. The party seems to have been transformed. Before the election, the party – and the centre party, with which they cooperate – promised to reintroduce the holiday money to the unemployed because they understood, wisely, that taking holiday money from people who lost the job under Korona, who come back to work and are denied vacations, is unsocial and deeply unfair. This room has already been adopted, as the representative of the Progress Party also pointed out that the unemployed would have holiday pay next year. But this is what the Solberg government has been trying to avoid by cutting holiday money for the unemployed, and the Big Government is repeating this. So it is clearly not possible for the government to introduce something that is overwhelmingly majority in this Chamber, namely that the unemployed should have holiday pay next year, as they deserve. And why not? Well, the problem – as I said – is that the Workers' Party has been transformed. They are unfortunately lying as Gregor Samsa on his armoury back and bursting helplessly with his legs, claiming that there is now no opportunity or time to get money for the unemployed. This looks like a lifting break, and it sounds like a lifting break, and that's because it's a lifting break. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State, and I ask the Council of State to be quite specific: what has prevented the Workers' Party from implementing what they promised before the election campaign, namely that the unemployed should receive holiday money in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e230	The words I am about to use may be the lead of the representative, Mr Kristjánsson, but it is about safe economic governance. Safe economic governance has led to a total of 1.6 billion. In the case of holiday pay, it is difficult to fit into a responsible economic structure – a scheme that clearly prioritizes the wallets of ordinary people in a range of areas, both through the way in which we ensure that the tax cuts benefit ordinary people, and by reducing the maximum price in kindergartens, doubling the trade union deduction and increasing the amount of commuting. Now I know that the representative Kristjánsson has a slightly different view of oil money usage than what I myself, and that party and the government I'm part of. It may be that the representative Kristjánsson takes it easy to spend 1.6 billion. kr from the oil fund to cover holiday money from 2022, but it is not easy for me or this government. The risk would be too great for an interest rise that would hit exactly the same family that holiday money for day money is supposed to be a good thing. But I can assure both the representative Kristjánsson and absolutely everyone else that introducing holiday money in cash is still something this government will do. It's in our government statement, and it's going to be implemented during the pouring period.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e239	Thanks for the answer. The representative Kristjánsson represents a party that has used – and will use – just as much oil money as the government does in its alternative budget. But what is not foreign to the representative of Kristjánsson, but, on the other hand, synonyms, is when the Council of State talks about total containment and responsible financial arrangements. The situation is that this government has chosen to peace 30 billion. kr of the tax cuts of the previous government – most of them for people with high incomes and high wealth. Then the question is, why was it not possible within a financially responsible scheme to increase taxes on the rich more, so that the unemployed could get leave next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e246	I would like to remind you that the details of the tax regime fall within the financial minister's constitutional responsibility. But on a general basis, I can say that for this government it has been important to have a tax system that ensures that it is reliable for ordinary lives and businesses, but that also not least leads to increased distribution, and there is no doubt that this tax regime does. It is a tax scheme that ensures that it is those who have the high incomes and the large wealth that pay more in taxes, while ordinary lives experience that they get tax cuts. Then I just have to say that the representative is right that we haven't committed to any tax evolution, but it doesn't have our policy for the Labour Party or the Centre Party in this area either. We're busy securing the wallet to ordinary people, and through the budget for 2022, we're doing it in a very clear way. Holiday money on the day money I look forward to coming back to at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e255	There will be follow-up questions – first Mimir Kristjánsson.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e260	I record that the predictability of government and state councils is very selective. It is obviously important that it is predictable for the rich, that they do not increase taxes more than they have been promised, but it is obviously not important that it is predictable for the unemployed that what has been promised in the 100-day guarantee to the Workers' Party is implemented. Their predictability is obviously not essential to the government. Then I also look forward to the Government and the Council of State fixing this at a later date, but the question is: When do the Council of State and the Government intend to fix this, and will they guarantee that it will take place in the revised budget as early as next year, so that those who have been unemployed actually get vacations for the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e267	Traditionally, the national budget has been revised to revise the budget, not to bring new initiatives. When the representative here talks about predictability, I must remind you that it is this government that ensures that it is prudent for those who have incomes below NOK 750000 by saying that they are tax cut, while those who have income above it have to count on tax tightening. When it comes to holiday money for day money, it is an important matter for the Labour Party-Center Party administration. It's in the Hurdal platform, and that means we're going to assume it's going to be implemented. Then, of course, the implementation of this must be done in relation to the individual budget. Once again, if it were possible to do it within a responsible scheme for 2022, with the frameworks laid down, we would of course have done so, but the risk of interest rise associated with the use of oil money was so great that we took it seriously and screened the wallet to ordinary people against the consequences that it could have.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e274	Mimir Kristjánsson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e279	I note that the Council of State now answers that this will not be arranged in the next revised budget, which means that those who have been unemployed last year will not get any holiday money in the coming summer – or that many of them will fall out of the holiday money system, in line with the Solberg government's cut and in breach of the Storting's decision. At the same time, it is very difficult to understand exactly why it was impossible to find money for this, when the government has clearly been able to find money for many other priorities in its budget. It is difficult to understand in any other way than that the unemployed have not been first in the priority queue when the government has begun to move millions and billions into the Solberg government budget. The question to the Council of State is: what is the reason why the unemployed have been prioritised by the government in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e288	It must be delicious to have unlimited money, and it can be thought that it is a good thing for the representative, Kristjánsson, not to have any responsibility either. At least he represents a party that has said that they don't want to be responsible, because they don't want to be part of a government and take the responsibility that it holds. This government has been busy having a clear social profile, and some of our efforts have, for example, been made. we ensure that those who go on redundancy pay have been extended, not only for the New Year, but many of them have been extended until 1 July, so that we can also work with legislation that ensures that those who need closer follow-up and better time to get the job clearance they need actually get it. In a number of other areas, we have also shown that we are raising the social profile. I just have to admit that the representative, Kristjánsson, has very little trust in implementation when it comes to holiday money on a day-to-day basis, when he does not show the responsibilities to put in place a sound and responsible budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e298	Mimir Kristjánsson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e303	The council is right that there is a lot that is delicious to be the representative of Kristjánsson, but one thing I have never had is unlimited with money, and neither has it ever been red. Red has, however, proposed increasing the taxes to the richest, as the Workers' Party also suggested before they went through Gregor Samsa's transformation and became a helpless animal that lay and split with its legs. Then the question is, why in every day was it not possible for the Council of State and the government to collect an increase in the taxes to the wealthiest of the country, so that the unemployed could get what the Workers' Party had promised them to do within 100 days, that is. in its first budget, and what the Council of State now confirms will not be included in the revised budget either?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e310	I have to remind you once again that when it comes to the tax regime, it is the Minister of Finance's constitutional responsibility. Now the representative draws the comparison between the alternative budget of Red and the alternative budgets of the Labour Party and the Central Party, but I just have to remind you that our alternative tax arrangements are not similar to each other. Red has had a completely different approach to how the tax regime should be set up than the Workers' Party and the Centre's party have been in opposition, and we are now in charge of even when we are in government. We have a clear distribution profile on our tax regime, and we prioritise the wallet for ordinary people. Again: I just have to stress that holiday money in cash is an important matter for this government, and I look forward to it being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e317	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e322	The Hurdal Platform states that the government will ‘strengthen the dialogue on foreign and security policy in the north and establish joint meeting places to discuss security policy challenges’. This is a very vague formulation, which has both unclear content and unclear range. Depending on what the government puts in it, the wording can be either unproblematic, or it can represent a significant shift in Norwegian security policy. In line with the long lines of Norwegian foreign and security policy, the Norway Security Policy Dialogue is taking place together with our allies in NATO and with our Nordic neighbours outside NATO. There is absolutely no deliberate reference to security policy discussion in the Arctic Council, which is a line of seven of the eight members of the Council until now has come together, and so Russia has wanted a different line. Which countries and actors will be included in this security meeting place and dialogue, and what will be discussed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e331	While the other state councils are talking about a whole new course for Norway, I have had a slightly different message, and that is that in foreign policy and security policy, the main lines are fixed. The representative's question does not represent rotation either. It was also clear at my meeting with Minister for Foreign Affairs Lavrov that, despite our desire to increase bilateral cooperation, we have other security interests in the north. But what matters to me is the cooperation that has been between the defense chiefs, to be predictable, whether it is exercises or other military activity in the north. Norway should be predictable, we should be able to recognise, and the Russians and other actors should know where they have us. It will also be the basis for the dialogue that we will engage with our largest neighbouring country. We do not want security policy to be part of the cooperation of the Arctic Council. We have renewed our faith in this cooperation after the Presidential change in the United States, for now we can facilitate a much clearer discussion of the environmental challenges and climate challenges in this area, and I look forward to our cooperation with Russia on that. But we want, as the Minister of Defence will certainly be able to explain in more detail, that we must be predictable when we have exercises in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e338	I think it is a bit alarming that the Foreign Minister cannot answer what I think was a rather simple question: which countries should be included in this new security policy dialogue, and what should be discussed? That's why I'm trying with a slightly different input to the question. In the same way as the long lines that both the Foreign Minister and I have just talked about, it has been an equally fundamental principle that Norway does not consult any country on the exercise of powers in any part of Norway, including Svalbard. Will Svalbard be part of the dialogue at these joint meeting places?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e343	Norwegian svalbard policy has been established since the Svalbard Treaty in 1920, and this guarantees Norway full sovereignty over this group of islands. There are no changes in Norwegian swallowing policy from this government. We do not consult with any countries about how we implement our policies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e348	There will be follow-up questions – first Ine Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e353	The security policy line that I mentioned in the introduction has served Norwegian interests very well. It has also enabled us to develop a pragmatic and well-functioning form of cooperation with Russia in a wide range of areas where we have common interests – or as Jens Stoltenberg writes in «My History»: ‘This has been possible, not despite the fact that Norway has been a member of NATO, but because of this membership. There is no contrast between dialogue and strength. On the contrary; when you are predictable and secure on yourself, you create the basis for political cooperation. Our alliance with strong Western countries has given us the security that allows Norway to discuss fishing quotas, energy issues and borders with Russia on an equal footing.’ I think this is a good quote, but like the point that Norway is going to be an observer at the Conference of the States, this point in the Hurdal platform has also created some wonder among allies. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs explain how our allies have been consulted on this new initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e363	In this room, on a number of occasions, it's been discussed how to combine the role of NATO ally with being a driver of disarmament, and the former government got a lot of criticism from the bulk of the population at this point. I and the former Foreign Minister are in complete agreement on one thing: when it comes to joining the Treaty of Prohibition, it will be contrary to our NATO obligations. On the other hand, the former Minister of Foreign Affairs did not get an impact on his fellow government colleagues. Both the Left and the Christian People's Party wanted to sign the agreement. I believe that our allies understand very well what is Norway's position, and we have had a special position with our nuclear policy in the north. There is no nuclear weapon on Norwegian soil. Our participation as an observer is a recognition of the existence of this Treaty. There are many we consult with, there are many we have different meetings with, and that also applies in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e371	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e376	Now I did not ask for reactions to our participation as an observer at the Conference of the States Parties, but on this new initiative on the new North Security Policy Dialogue. The current government has its experience with Russia before Russia annexed Crimea. Then the cooperation climate was different. Since the Russian annexation of Crimea, we have seen a clear turn towards a more self-reliant foreign and defence policy by Russia, a significant increase in military activity in our neighbourhoods, the development of new weapon systems and capabilities, and a strong tightening of civil society. I expect the Stortinget to be consulted before it may be invited to such a new format, but I repeat then two of my questions: Who will participate in this dialogue, and how have our allies been consulted?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e383	I have had several meetings with different allies, and they fully understand what is Norway's line here. We have a safe, predictable policy within NATO. There are no reactions from our allies. On the contrary, NATO’s reform work towards 2020 has also taken into account the possibility for Member States to have different positions on different issues. But the fact that we want to intensify dialogue with Russia is not contrary to the predictability we have in security policy. So I think this question that the former foreign minister now comes up with is a funny one, because these are the areas we agree on, and it is in our common interest not to doubt what are our security policy priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e388	Ine Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e393	I fully agree that it is in our common interest not to have such doubts about Norwegian security policy, but then at least I expect a foreign minister from the Workers' Party, who has just launched a government platform, to be able to answer very simple questions about a quite significant point in the platform where a new security policy format is to be introduced in the north. As I say, potentially it can be unproblematic, but potentially it can also represent a significant line break. I have still not received a response to whom this dialogue should include. I have still not received a reply on how we have consulted allies on this initiative. I also think it's a pretty funny statement from the Foreign Minister to say that there has been no reaction to our policy in NATO since the new government joined. Rather, on the contrary, both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence have also said that there have been reactions to some aspects of the new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e400	I believe I have answered quite well the question of whether we should change our security policy in the north. What is important to us is the consultations we have had with Russia early on, so that they know where they have us and that we should be predictable. We have a shared responsibility for both having a credible deterrence in cooperation with our allies, and also contributing to fewer misunderstandings and predictability of cooperation with Russia in the north. That is why I want to strengthen that dialogue, but it has also become relatively clear that it does not in any way imply that we weaken what is deterrent in the north. There are no new formats added in addition to the fact that we want to strengthen the dialogue to a greater extent than was the case for the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e405	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e410	The Hurdal platform states that the government will: ‘cooperation with China along a Nordic and European line, on common interests, and stand up for Norwegian social values and international human rights’.» This is very cryptic and reasonably difficult to understand. Negotiations with China on a free trade agreement have been going on for 13 years since 2008, but now they are going towards a final phase, after what we in the Progress Party have understood, and that is foreign policy at the highest level. It is going to be very demanding, probably the most demanding decision a Norwegian government is going to take, whether we are going to operate with these negotiations, and when we are going to conclude. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it is a wise strategy to continue the negotiations, or should Norway's strategy be to wait and possibly conclude the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e422	The President will draw attention to the main question, but the Foreign Minister can of course choose to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e427	At least I feel the need to comment on what the representative says about the Hurdal platform, and that it is cryptic. What is important for Norway and our relationship with China is that we too should appear predictable in this area. When it comes to the issue of human rights, it's important that we take it up with our allies. That is why the Hurdal platform makes it very clear that we want to work better together with the Nordic countries and different European countries. I don't think that's cryptic; on the contrary, I think it's very clear. Because in these questions we have to have a common line. So I just want to argue against the representative's characteristics of the government's climate policy. With regard to the trade agreement with China, there was something the Left State Council negotiated in the previous government that was not finished. I expect the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade to be able to explain this to the representative of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e434	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e440	I want to first remind you that the relationship with China is related to the previous question. It's definitely a relationship with China in the northern regions, too, and that's why the relationship with China is part of this. When it comes to the answer or not the answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I record that she is pointing to another minister. I believe that this is foreign policy more than it is industrial policy. I would like to know from the Secretary of State about the United States that these negotiations are being informed, whether they are going into a final phase, and what reactions the United States has had, because competition against China has become increasingly difficult, and sanctions have been imposed on China, not least in the case of 5G and Huawei. And is it the case that the United States has a veto in these negotiations – not least because we are completely dependent on the US's help, both through NATO and bilaterally? Will the Foreign Minister consult with the United States, and what power over Norway will the United States have in any final negotiations on a free trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e447	I think I have to make it clear that in the case of Norwegian trade policy, the United States does not have a veto right. We have very good cooperation with our main allies in different areas, but in the case of Norwegian trade policy, we should take care of what is Norwegian interest. Norwegian companies have increased their trade with China over the last few years, and many of them have expressed their desire for more predictability in these trade agreements and thus want a negotiated free trade agreement. Nor have we agreed on some of the measures put in place by the United States. It's up to the United States what kind of trade policy they want to implement. What is important to me in the case of Norwegian trade policy towards China is to take care of Norwegian interests, both Norwegian business and Norwegian political values – such as human rights and labour standards – as part of the trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e454	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e459	In the election campaign, the red-green people traveled around talking about ‘common people’. Many promises were made out there, and there was no way how many common people would get theirs. Monday this week the government had its first great opportunity to deliver. However, it turns out that it may not always be so easy to see who, in the eyes of the government, are ordinary people. Then I think especially of a group that is close to my heart, children and young people, perhaps especially those who have it demanding, and those who grow up in poverty. That's why it's been a great ambition for me as a politician to be an ombudswoman for these: simplify everyday life and try to make it easier for more people to get it right. And as a child of a growing-up representative, I may know an extra great responsibility to speak their case in this room. Last time the red-green government bet on this, it ended up with a belly pad. In the Soria Moria Declaration, it was an objective to present a comprehensive plan for the eradication of poverty. It turned out to be unrealistic and changed in the Soria Moria II declaration, where poverty was to be eliminated. The Hurdal Declaration does not say anything very specific about how the current red-green government will combat child poverty. I wonder if there really is any strategy, because a piece of art was presented here on Monday with e.g. cutting the leisure card to ordinary children, allowing you to participate in leisure activities. It was a priority to cut, but it would be a priority, for example. increased artist support and symbolic climate action. My question is whether the government council will give priority to the work of children and young people in sustainable low-income families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e470	The President will point out that it is a little wise to say what state council you ask questions to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e475	I'm sorry. It's for the Minister of Children and Family Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e480	First, I want to thank you for the question. This is a hugely important theme, I am pleased with the representative's commitment to the growing-up conditions of children and young people. So I disagree with the premise of the question. I think the supplementary proposition that we make on Monday is a very good budget for children and young people. The representative will draw up the leisure card: yes, this government will close the trial project when it expires in July, and will not promise a national roll-out of it. Instead, we suggest strengthening a back-up scheme to include children and young people, and we also expand it so that municipalities can apply for support for, among other things. to cover participants' fees, and that discount scheme, with our increase, is more than half a billion kroner. That's what I think I'll do well in the municipalities in their work. When it comes to fighting poverty, we in the platform are very clear that we are going to reduce poverty, and especially child poverty. We are taking several steps in this budget that can contribute to it, for example. Let's make kindergarten cheaper, we've increased the bump, we're also notifying that we're going to set up a low-income commission, and we're going to introduce school meals and cheaper SFOs. There are many things that help children’s families to have greater financial space for action. Not least, we have also proposed a shift towards a more social tax policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e489	There are small differences in Norway compared to a number of other countries, but differences in Norway may be primarily due to a naive immigration policy over several decades, which unfortunately has hit children hard. That is why I and the Progress Party believe that we must have the brakes on immigration policy and, above all, integrate those that are here. The Perspective Communication refers, inter alia, to: there has been a large increase in child poverty and social disparities in recent years, more specifically mentioned in the SSB report of 29 March 2021, which shows that 115,000 children lived in low-income families. The SSB report also describes that children with migrant backgrounds are increasingly represented in these statistics. Does the Council agree that the main instrument in the fight against child poverty is a strict and fair immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e496	I'm a children's minister for all children in Norway, whether they live in immigrant families or there are other children. What the Progress Party is suggesting here is at least far from the line I'm going to be clear about and fight for. It is true that children are children, and we want to ensure that Norwegian children – children who live in Norway – do not grow up in poor families. It is not that children are poor, that they are poor, and that is where we need to change the policy. Yes, I know that there are many children from immigrant families in that statistics. There's something we should be aware of, and we might have to put extra arrangements there, but I'm taking away from the angle that the representative has his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e503	It opens for follow-up questions – first Silje Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e508	I just think this is a little bit of a challenge, because that statistics actually show that there are six out of ten children in that category that have such a background. I think you have to be very aware of that in order to be able to help as best you can. As I understand it, Oslo Economics, on behalf of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, has now carried out an analysis of the socio-economic costs of marginalisation and exclusion of children and young people. The report has now been presented and shows that low income, care failure, violence, abuse, disability, etc. provides a significant increase in the risk of experiencing marginalisation. This costs Norwegian society a lot of money, not to talk about the costs it's going to be for children and young people, and what you can't always measure in terms of dollars and ears. I wonder, then, how will the Council of State follow up this report, in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e518	Yes, this is a very important work that we have already started on, because we have clear goals in the Hurdal platform to fight poverty among families with children, and the report to which the representative refers is important in that work. Children growing up in persistent poverty have an increased risk of outreach and marginalisation. There are several things that need to be done to prevent this. The representative was in the middle of his first question, that one has tried for many years. Under the government of which the Progress Party was part or support, there has also been no progress. I've mentioned all of our actions that have already been identified in the supplementary proposal, and then we're going to work on this. It's a very important matter for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e527	Take Pettersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e532	In 2020, the Solberg Government presented a cooperative strategy to promote participation and strengthen the opportunities for children in low-income families. The strategy addressed measures providing children with the same opportunities as their peers to conduct educational courses, to enjoy good and safe housing, to participate in organised leisure activities and to gain better access to health services. And in the budget for 2022, we proposed another 400 million. kr for measures to be built up under this. The new government – as we have heard – has already cancelled the leisure card, which will hit a lot, while they boast that they have spent 50 of the 300 million to strengthen another scheme. I would like to ask the Council of State: what concrete points in the Government Platform will the Council of State draw up as their targeted action to help children who grow up in families with persistently difficult economies?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e539	We have several things in the supplementary proposition, which I mentioned before, and that we're strengthening the municipal economy by 2.5 billion. of course kr will be positive for this group. The introduction of VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations will help to increase voluntary provision that also helps this group. Of course, making kindergarten cheaper will also be a concrete thing that many parents enjoy. We have a better support system, which is a warning, and we also aim to make SFO cheaper and have a school meal. This is a work that we will come back to with even more concrete measures to reach this target group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e544	Grunde Almeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e549	Most children who grow up in poverty live in the big cities. Earlier this year, the Jensen Committee, with its NoU, emphasised this and made a number of proposals for action on how to remedy the situation for these very children. Poverty must be alleviated, and later poverty must be prevented, because it deprives people of freedom and opportunities in life. And if we're going to get to this, it requires offensive bets on the big cities and measures for the families that need it the most. This government responded quite quickly by voting against the proposal to follow up the Jensen Committee and put the selection report in the drawer. At the same time, we see in the supplementary proposal that they choose to give some hundreds of patches of cheaper kindergartens to everyone – versus what was, among other things. The left's priority, to make sure that the money goes to the families that need it the most. Does the Council have any concrete measures to follow-up children living in big cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e558	This government has increased area investments, for example: Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim – it was well – so it is a concrete promise that could work positively. When it comes to arrangements for those who need it the most, it was actually one of our assessments of the leisure card, which has also been criticized for having a lot of administration, an expensive system where one is uncertain about how it hits, because it goes to everyone. Our forward order, which we want to strengthen, is more focused on those who have the greatest need. So yes, we're thinking very carefully about when a system is going to go out to everyone. That being said, it is the great universal systems, such as child-responsiveness, that we need to strengthen, because it is important to combat poverty among children's families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e567	Grunde Almeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e572	There were no clear signs of what action is actually being taken by the children in the big cities. But one thing we agree on, which is important for absolutely all families, is the parental death scheme. One of the most important things we can do to prevent children from growing up in poverty is to make sure that both parents are in work and have income. That is why we need to create welfare systems that stimulate work. The left has worked and had an impact on a parental pension scheme that is now equal, which is good, and which ensures real economic equality and closes the pay gap between the sexes. Long paperwork is important to ensure that both parents are related to the child and equal opportunities at home and in the workplace. Will the Council of State ensure that the families who have ended up in the so-called "Federal Quota" trap, even before October of this year, will receive their payments, such as: The civil officer thinks it's right, and prevent these families from getting into a very difficult economic situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e581	First, I haven't made any concrete suggestions on what to do for children in big cities: Cheaper kindergartens are a very concrete and big promise, and one can't say it doesn't matter. When it comes to the matter of the father quota, the representative of Almeland is probably familiar with my answer to written questions, among other things. to the questioner. There are also questions from the Control Committee. The point in that case is that the Left itself has its seat in government twice when the Storting has said that it was necessary to change the laws in order to avoid the spring quota trap, now late in the spring. But I'm familiar with the letter from Civilomboden, and I'm now assessing this against Nav and will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e588	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e594	My question goes to Minister for Children and Family Kjersti Toppe. Family policy is important. The family is our first and most important community. Here we meet security, love and care. Here we evolve and get a connection. Much of the basis for how we become later in life is laid in the first few years. It is said that a good childhood lasts life. Unfortunately, we can also see that a bad childhood can be inherited. Family policy is important because we believe that the family is so important. That's why the Christian People's Party always prioritises families, but for the Center Party it sometimes seems to be just words, because in government they have almost abdicated and given the Workers' Party a veto in family policy. It seems that the Christian People's Party is sad – not for the Christian People's Party, but for all the families that now have no one to fight for them in the government. That shouldn't surprise anyone. Every time they sit in government, there was a dramatic cut in the cash support, and they have even agreed to introduce waiting support – or child support, as I know the council so nicely called it. With all due respect to reporting, it does not help families with young children what we call the scheme, as long as the offer rages. The workline always trumps family policy. My question is: what in concrete terms will the Council of State do as Minister for Children and Family Affairs to strengthen the position of the family, so that family policy is not primarily about the line of work, but about giving families flexibility and freedom of choice to live the life they themselves want to live?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e605	Thank you for the question. The central party and the Christian People's Party have shared their commitment to some measures in the family policy, and I expect that I could be challenged on cash support, which I feel is essentially the issue. I want to answer that question. I am a child and family minister who thinks that we have to take over the fact that the cash support as it was does not have multiples in this room. I am concerned that we are creating a system for families with children that is not subject to criticism in the infinite, that can be over time, that can ensure that it is safe for families with children, and that prioritises families with the youngest children, where I think the need is greatest to secure freedom of choice. With our scheme, which I hope can be supported in Stortinget, a further cash support scheme will continue for the youngest children, i.e. between 12 months and 18 months. I disagree that this does not help any small children's families, which it could sound like the representative suggested. I think it's going to be a very important arrangement for those who stand there with a one-year-old and wonder if they're going to postpone kindergarten start for a month or two or maybe up to six months. Then this infant support or cash support can be something that will give it to several families. Together with making babysitting cheaper, I think this helps to increase the choice and make it more accessible to more families.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e614	Does the Council of State feel that this is predictable for families? On the day you get kindergarten, you lose the cash support. Is that predictable for the family? Is it predictable for kindergarten? Is it predictable for working life? How long should a family of young children — a mother or a father — seek leave? Where is the predictability for all parties, when you do it this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e619	It's very helpful for small children's families, because we're very clear that the cash support for the children between 12 and 18 months of age is constant. It's very preposterous. The representative asks is the device of what is called infant support for children between 18 months and 2 years of age. How the device gets on it, I must be allowed to come back to it, but I am concerned that it should be arranged so that it is easy to understand, that it should not become very many different devices and conditions that make it seem unattainable. But I think we'll be able to do it and we'll come back to Stortinget with how it finally gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e626	It opens for follow-up questions – first Olaug Vervik Bollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e631	I look forward to getting back with that. The council has also said several times that the maximum price in the kindergarten is reduced, and that is great. But there are also many other cuts proposed for families with children. But what's most upsetting to me is that the government cuts in the leisure card -- the recreational card that the basketball boys call the gold card, because it allows them to play basketball. The government has claimed that the card is bureaucratic, but the reality is that the government is taking away those who need it the most. We invest in the kids, the government invests in the organizations. However, an additional ball for organisations does not provide more opportunities for individual young people to participate in leisure activities. It's the card that allows them to participate. So my question is, what will the Minister for Children and Family do to ensure that no children and young people have to stand by and ask to be allowed to take part in leisure activities, when the card goes away?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e640	Good growth conditions for children and young people are one of the most important tasks in our society. I'm not going to devalue our proposal to reduce kindergarten prices, because under the government that the Christian People's Party was in or supported, the kindergarten price went up by $50,000 for a kindergarten run. It's a lot of money for a child family. When it comes to the leisure card, the representative and I are certain that it is very important for all children and young people to have the opportunity to participate in a leisure activity. Then we disagree that the leisure card is the only solution that's going to fix this. It is not possible to stick under the chair that this system is expensive. In total, there's going to be a bet of $1.7 billion. kr. The system has also been criticized for being bureaucratic. So that's our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e647	Olaug Vervik Bollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e652	I'm going to have a final follow-up on the leisure card. It was a thought from the previous government, and the Christian People's Party in particular, that this should be a universal arrangement for the oldest kids. Now cut one for the oldest kids. One increases child welfare, with index regulation, for zero to six-year-olds, one does not do it for the biggest kids. What does the Council of State think of an actual kutter for the biggest kids, who also need a lot of resources and money, and not least participation in organizational life, to be formed into good young people who are also going to be part of our society?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e657	Now the representative came up with what had not been mentioned so often. It's that the previous government actually didn't give priority to increasing the price and salary of children's rights, to finance the leisure card. We'll come back to the next budget when it comes to child welfare. But what we were looking at was just whether it was right to take from a child's family one to a welfare service, to give priority to a leisure card, without even getting them to a follow-up evaluation, which costs a lot. We have strengthened the new back-up scheme to include children and young people, so that municipalities can also apply for support to cover the participant's fee. I think there's a much better system, which is more accurate, less bureaucratic, and which also meets those kids who have the most needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e662	Olug Vervik Bollestad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e668	I couldn't hold on. I understand that the Council of State says that we did not increase child welfare was the reason why we gave the leisure card to everyone – so that it would be a real increase for the older kids. We prioritised it because we know that kids are so supportive that they actually say they can't afford it, and then they stay outside the social context. I agree that we can have special pots from which families can apply. But we also know that the shame of doing so is so great that having universal arrangements for this is most important – not for the Christian People's Party, not for the one who sits and is going to distribute it, but for the young people who actually know that they get the activity they want to be in, because they get it covered, without anyone else knowing they're under special application regimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e675	The question is, in fact, a little unclear. I've been through that we don't think we can go in for a national roll-out of the leisure card system. We have proposed strengthening other arrangements. One thing is the order of business, but we're strengthening the local economy by 2.5 billion. NOK, and we introduce full VAT compensation for voluntary teams and organisations. This will also help all children and young people to participate in a leisure activity. So we have another way of achieving that goal than the Christian People's Party and the old government thought was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e680	Turid Kristensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e685	In the Hurdal platform, the title of the chapter on children and families is «Good universal arrangements for all families». It says that this is because we want to strengthen the universal provision of well-being for children and young people in order to ensure freedom for all families and to reduce differences in Norway. When I read the supplementary proposition, I have to say that I think the government has a strange little principleal attitude to universal arrangements. For example, the government proposes: lowering the nursery price to all, irrespective of the level of income of the family, as a universal scheme. With regard to the leisure card, which was introduced by the government of Solberg as a universal system, and which has benefited many, the government now says that it will remove the scheme because it is not targeted enough. I heard that the Council of State on previous questions here today rather tried to refer to more general schemes, such as strengthening the local economy or measures in departments other than its own. How does the Council of State feel that the removal of the leisure card is consistent with its own objectives in the Hurdal platform, and how can the Council of State defend the fact that the government is close to 300 million. kr and increase by only 50 million. on other schemes – which will clearly affect many children and young people?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e694	Now it's like the theme card was a trial project, and the project goes out in July this year. Then a follow-up evaluation is to be carried out. It is clear that we should also take along the positive experiences with it – how we can work to include children and young people and secure leisure activities for all. But going in for a roll-out of this into a national system based on what we now know, we don't think was a proper economic priority. We don't think it was the right priority to get the most out of the money when it comes to children and young people. From other schemes, I have to say that strengthening the municipal economy, when all. VAT compensation for voluntary organisations is also something that reaches out widely. We're going to strengthen the universal welfare arrangements, but we're not going to jump on all the proposals, especially those that came from the old government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e701	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning rhyme.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e715	There will be some changes to the configured question list. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken of the Minister for Research and Higher Education, will be addressed by the representative Hilde Marie Gaebpie Danielsen. Question 8, from the representative Harek Elvenes to the Minister for Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Frank Edvard Sve to the Minister for Climate and Environment, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 10, from the representative, Tage Pettersen, to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Security, who is directing him. The question was, at the request of the Minister of Justice and Defence, moved and answered before question 29, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 11, from the representative Mari Holm Lønseth to the municipal and district minister, has been withdrawn. Question 15, from the representative Ingerd Schou to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment who is directing him. However, the question is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away. Question 23, from the representative Alfred Jens Bjørlo to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. However, the question has to be postponed until the next Question Time when the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has left. Question 24, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister for Industry, will be raised by the representative Sara Bell. Question 25, from Mr Thorheim to the Minister for Industry, Mr Bårdvig Thorheim, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy to direct him. The question was, at the request of the Minister for Oil and Energy, moved and answered in response to question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 27, from the representative Margeret Hagerup to the Minister of Knowledge, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e747	‘I refer to the Council of State’s answer to my written question No. 111 on the use of English in higher education and research. [[2021-2022]] Does the Council of State believe that all international researchers and teachers should be able to liquidate Norwegian and know Norwegian culture before they can research and teach at Norwegian universities and colleges, and how will the Council of State ensure this without weakening the ambitions of education and research at a high international level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e754	I thank you for the representative's question. The large group of international employees in research and higher education differs in many ways from others coming to Norway: they have often got a job before they have acquired the Norwegian language, and they meet less high demands for Norwegian knowledge. Findings from the project Norsk in the Academy at the University of Bergen show that the international staff experience little organisation for language learning. This happens despite the fact that many of them want to learn Norwegian. The government believes that this is unfortunate. The Norwegian language is an important part of our common cultural heritage and is something we must actively protect in the future. Norwegian research and higher education are no exception. In addition, the University and Higher Education Act states that the institutions have a responsibility to maintain and further develop Norwegian professional languages. Failure to control Norway can cause researchers and trainers disadvantages on several levels, including: in meeting students and in contact with Norwegian social and work life. Good Norwegian knowledge is needed to ensure that they are well integrated into both society and the world of work. Good skills are also needed to teach, guide, censor and write academic texts in Norwegian. Universities and higher education institutions shall develop strategies or guidelines for their language work. The Directorate for Higher Education and Competences, on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, has reviewed these strategies. One of the main problems they raise is precisely the lack of Norwegian training offered to international staff. Despite the fact that a large majority of institutions require international staff to learn Norwegian, the review shows that they do not follow the requirement properly enough. The implementation of language training is not good enough either. It is clear that institutions need to give higher priority to language training of their employees. Some would argue that there is a contrast between education and research at a high international level and the responsibility of the institutions to maintain and further develop Norwegian professional languages. I disagree with that – because here we must give priority to both. The choice of teaching and publishing languages must be professionally justified and not as is often the case today: a consequence of the teacher’s lack of control over Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e769	Thanks for the answer. I agree, of course, that the development of Norwegian professional languages is important, and that the use of Norwegian languages is important, but I see it as a challenge if the Council of State prioritises the language rather than research and research results. The Hurdal Platform states that Norway will continue to develop its education and research cooperation with Europe. How does the Council of States view the development of cooperation with Europe and the rest of the world if the focus and requirements for the use of languages that do not cross our borders are to be a key field of government action?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e776	The premise for the problem is that there is a natural contrast between, on the one hand, the internationalisation of Norwegian research and higher education, for which there is a common commitment in this room, and the provision of Norwegian both as a daily language and as a professional language for the further development of academic languages. I disagree with that premise. I believe it is both natural, important and fully possible to do both. I even think that it is absolutely essential that we manage to do both. One of the main societal tasks of Norwegian research and higher education is to make their results available to the Norwegian community, which, after all, pays for what is happening. Then you will not be able to understand that you need to use Norwegian as a language, and that you need to develop your professional language further.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e789	Of course, it is very important that what is published should also be published in Norwegian. The higher education sector has several tasks: research, dissemination and education. It's different, but very important tasks, all three. Working in international networks is very valuable for the research communities, for Norway as a country and for us as a population. Through its opinions, the Council of State has raised some concerns. Then I wonder, is it so that the Council of State really believes what he has so clearly signaled? And if the Council of State wants to change the governance principles, wouldn't it be wise to deal with it in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e794	Firstly, I fully agree with what the representative says that it is important to lift both Norwegian research and education into the international community. Of course, I also fully agree that it requires you to speak the same language. Often it will be English, and no one has said – nor am I – that you should stop speaking English at Norwegian educational institutions or research institutions, just for putting it all in place. It is also the case that through more legal work, both the law of higher education and the language law, the Stortinget has given the university and higher education sector a very special task of maintaining and further developing the Norwegian professional language. I think that's a completely natural follow-up to what the Storting has already decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e804	I have the honour to ask the following questions to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: «The government announced a trust reform for the university and higher education sectors in the Hurdal Platform, but in the first opinions of the Council of State he now reports that the institutions will have a tighter political framework and leadership. One of the first steps of the government is to ask Nord University in the form of letters to continue its activity at Nesna. Does the Council of State agree that the increased level of review of governance decisions and the narrowing of the board’s operating rooms do not comply with the commitments to give more confidence in the sector?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e813	I thank you for the question. Let me first make it clear that the government has not asked North University to continue the activity at Nesna. What the Ministry of Knowledge has done is to send a letter to the University of Nord, asking the university to consider allowing employees at Nesna to continue to have offices there until 1 August 2023. The government will continue to be active on the Nesna. Nesna is important for the community along the Helgeland coast and to ensure access to teachers, which is an ever-need. We look at and discuss different solutions and therefore asked Nord University to consider not moving jobs from Nesna now. The North University Board has dealt with the enquiry from the Department and given a positive and constructive feedback. There is good dialogue between the department and the university, and so the department has not given any instructions or instructions. One of the main government projects is trust reform in the public sector, including the university and higher education sectors. Trust reform involves, inter alia: that the government will not initiate centralising reforms that create large-scale units with large distances from those who decide, to those who are in the first line to do the job – in sharp contrast to what was practice in the previous government. Furthermore, this is our alternative to the so-called ABE reform, which is necessary for cheese throughout the state sector. We want to implement such a trust reform without preventing us from steering important sectors of society – such as the university and higher education sectors – in such a way that we have good access to education across the country. The places of study of a university or higher education institution can be of major national importance. It has not been given that such a central decision as the closure of a place of study should be left to the board of the institution in question to decide on its own. As an example, I might mention that if the University of Oslo found out that they would move their entire business to e.g. Gardermoen, I would assume that there could be a question from the representative Sanner attached to whether I thought it was a good idea. The Government will consider whether such decisions should be subject to some form of democratic control and then in line with the Constitution. The Constitutional Act Section 28 states that ‘cases of importance’ shall be decided by the King of State Council. I will come back to this and how it can be specifically followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e832	The council now says two things. On the one hand, he says that no instructions have been given, no instructions, and on the other hand, the Council of State says that the conclusion has been given. The decision of the Nord University Board was justified in terms of quality. The government is obviously more concerned with structure. The words of trust reform become fine words without content when state councils are so clear in their signals of more governance. This has caused concern in the sector, not only at North University, but generally in the university and higher education sectors, because the government is now alerting a stronger governance of the sector. Is it true that the Council of State believes that structure is more important than quality, when the Board of Directors of Nord University has said that quality implies that the structure needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e839	Let me start by referring to the Constitutional Act, Section 28, which states that ‘things of importance’ for the nation shall be decided by the King of the Council of State. It is also true that the vast majority of educational establishments and institutions in the Kingdom are the result of active political decisions, many of them taken in this room. So it's obvious that both the sector as such and the geography associated with it have been and are important policy areas. As a general consideration, I would add that it is important for this government to politicise important structural issues. It should no longer be such that this is a responsibility that can be pushed out into directorates and out-of-offices, and then one avoids the burden of having political opinions about what is clearly a fundamental political responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e846	Interestingly, the Council of State compares a university with a directorate. We have a long tradition in Norway that our universities are important institutions, important social institutions that cannot be governed in the same way as a directorate. There has also been a concern in the sector that this over-management, as it really is, will mean that resources are shifted away from the quality and structural focus of the university and higher education sectors. We now see that in the draft budget. It's true that 100 million is given priority. extra to decentralised education, but the money is taken from student welfare, it is taken from the university and higher education sectors and research in other areas. Does the Council of State see that the sector's concern is real, when it is seen that this can go beyond both quality and the priorities that the sector has made in terms of quality and content of education?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e853	I didn't compare universities to directorates. I said that the previous government had as a project to push decision-making authority away from the political level, i.e. the government, and beyond in the Directorate to avoid taking responsibility. There's not a direction that this government is going to build up under and keep going in. The budget presented on Monday is very similar to the budget presented by the previous government and is based on those priorities. I believe that providing good education, continuing education and training and raising skills throughout the country is a very important step towards exploiting the potential of the nation to build on our knowledge base. It is definitely linked to being able to provide a qualitatively good offer for the whole of Norway. This is just a continuation of the same discussion we've always had with new educational institutions, where some people are concerned that the cake is getting smaller, while the cake is actually getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e863	This question, from the representative Lars Haltbrecken to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, will be raised by the representative Hilde Marie Gaebpie Danielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e868	‘Samian children in kindergarten and school lack teachers and educators with Sami language skills. At Røros we have a Sami kindergarten department where only two out of five employees have the linguistic competence. Røros is not the only municipality that has this challenge. How will the Council of State meet the crisis in Sami language training, has the Council of State an overview of how many kindergartens and schools lacking Sami language competence, and what action will the Council of State take to ensure that Sami children receive training in their Sami language in kindergarten and school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e875	Let me first thank you for a good, relevant and important question. Sami children and young people have the right to develop their Sami language and culture. Children must meet employees in kindergartens and schools that can contribute to this. I am concerned that kindergartens and schools have challenges in recruiting staff with adequate and relevant skills in Sami. There is a great demand for teachers with Sami language education, and there is too little training. Good Sami training is essential for future recruitment to Sami education. As stated in the Hurdal platform, the government will implement a power force for Sami language and help train more Sami-speaking teachers and kindergarten teachers and secure high-quality Sami learning materials. We will discuss this with, among others. Sametsinget og samisk universitet (Samian College). The Minister of Knowledge and I must therefore come back with concrete measures. Better Sami language skills require that we succeed in recruiting for teacher training, but this requires a comprehensive effort aimed at all stages of the education process. We will contribute to a positive spiral, where better schools and kindergartens allow more people to complete higher education and to take the same language as teachers. For example, the Sameting and the State have: favourable arrangements for the grant and cancellation of student loans for those taking Sami teacher training. The institutions work with recruitment and facilitate flexibility in education. I think using centres of study in the continuing training of teachers is an interesting opportunity for the government to come back to. At Sami and North University, 34 students are currently in the process of five-year basic school teacher education. In addition, students who choose Sami as a subject for teacher training at the University of Tromsø, Norway's Arctic University. In the Sámi kindergarten teacher training courses there are a total of 45 active students. 7 of these are on the new job-based kindergarten teacher training with a Sami profile at Nord universitet. It is an offer for assistants and kindergarten and youth workers in kindergartens who combine studies and jobs. In the autumn of the year, Sámi College has introduced four students into a pilot scheme to enable those who have completed most of the four-year teacher training to be completed. Most people already work as teachers. The scheme runs to 2025. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the municipality of Røro for the efforts in Southern Sami language and culture. In the 2020–2029 development plan, school and kindergarten are central to this work. I have also noticed that the development plan is linked to the objectives and areas of activity of the community of the municipal plan. In addition, important cooperation has been established with the State Manager of Trøndelag and the University of Nordland. I think this kind of solid and holistic commitment is a good way to go in regional work, and we'll look at how the government can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e894	At North University of Levanger, the Sami teacher student Ramona has his Sami teacher training. She describes her choice of profession as follows: Manne mov vaajmoegielem båstede vaaltam juktie moundah hillem åadtjoeh dej gielem lieredh jih giele-guedtijinie shidtedh. I allow myself to translate: I take back my heart language, so that other children will have the opportunity to learn their heart language to become language-bearers. The lack of education is a crisis in the revitalisation of the Sami language, and I believe and hope that the Council of State has given some more thought to this – we have heard some examples of it here – but I would like to ask: Will there be a teacher effort from the Council of State for Sami teacher training and Sami kindergarten education? Will the Council of State specify which teacher's efforts will be made, and what will the bet look like?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e901	I think I'm going to start by saying that I agree with the heart of what I'm establishing is a common goal: adequate access to the relevant skills for the children who are going to have Sami language and Sami culture through their kindergarten and educational courses. We need to get back to that – in cooperation with all the good forces of the Stortinget, but also with the Sami college, the Sametinget, the different county municipalities and affected municipalities – to see how we can make this happen in a good and effective way. The government is busy getting it into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e906	In 2019, the Riksrevision presented a report on the right of Sami students to training in and in Sami. The Riksrevisor Per-Kristian Foss commented on the submission of the report that there seemed to be little interest in training in and in Sami from the then government, since the then state council Jan Tore Sanner pointed out that much of what appeared in the report is the school owner's responsibility. Riksrevisor Foss then showed that this is such a special field that it should interest the government council at that time more. Does the Council of State mean that municipalities should be alone in meeting the challenges, or will the Council of State take action to raise the Sami crisis of competence from being fragmented to the municipalities to a national level?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e913	I can't comment on how previous government councils have prioritised this field, but for my own part, I can say that I think this is important, and that's something I look forward to working more on to solve common challenges. This is not just a state, municipal or county responsibility, nor is it just a responsibility for the Sami college and the Sametinget. It's a common responsibility that we have as a society, and all good forces have to move forward to get it done. It's natural that at national level we have a responsibility to coordinate and set goals, but I don't think we can reach them without being able to cooperate well with everyone who wants to move in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e929	The representative Abid Q. Raja is not present in the room, and then we go to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e937	‘The Hurdal Platform decides that the Government ‘as soon as possible’ shall ‘be engaged in dialogue with the EU with a view to ensuring Norway exemption from parts of the provisions of the fourth rail package of the EU’. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated that at the meeting of the EEA Committee on 29 October Norway’s representative would make the EU side aware of this point in the Government Platform. What reactions were made by the EU side, Iceland and Liechtenstein to the government’s requirement for exemptions from parts of the fourth railway package?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e944	In the Hurdal platform, we clearly said that the government would enter into dialogue with the EU as soon as possible with a view to ensuring derogations from parts of the fourth rail package of the EU. The aim is to achieve the ambitious objectives of our rail system set out by the Hurdal platform, in particular the scope for the organisation of the rail sector and the possibility of exemptions from the requirements relating to the launching of passenger train services. The meeting of the EEA Committee on 29 October was the first after the government change. Norway’s representative took note of this point in the government platform. The representatives of Iceland and Liechtenstein were informed in advance. They took note of this. The representative of the EU’s foreign service replied that the Commission would be informed of Norwegian positions. It is estimated that the Commission will be available for clarification on the EU rail legal framework. The Government will use the EEA Agreement action space to ensure national control in important areas, including rail. For the government, it is therefore a natural first step on the road to identify what is space for action and possibilities for derogation within the regulatory framework, and to assess whether they are applicable to Norwegian conditions. We are now in the process of providing an overview of the frameworks and leads that need to be taken into account, and of national choices that can be taken into account in the implementation and practice of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e953	That means, as I interpret the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that exceptions are sought primarily from the rules on tendering. The fourth railway package is designed in such a way that, until 31 December 2023, exemptions from the invitation to tender and direct allocation of routes may be granted for a period of 10 years. However, such an exception for Norway would also lead to, for example, Vy cannot compete on European rail offers or packages. The question is how much impact the government is willing to take to implement these exemptions. Potentially, we can talk about consequences in this area, but of course also in other areas of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e960	It's going to be a very hypothetical question, and in the question of negotiations on space for action, that's what we're going to get along the way. But it's the former government that has put us in this situation. When the former government joined in 2013, the first thing that the government did was to subtract us from what was the ostetoll, without a majority in the Storting – an area that had to be withdrawn later. The last thing this government did, despite the fact that the Central Party, the Workers' Party and SV sent letters to the former Foreign Minister saying that we did not agree with the fourth railway package, was that it wanted to join this after the elections were held, and there was a large majority in the Stortinget against the fourth railway package. So this is a demanding situation, and we're trying to make the best of it and investigate what we can gather about. We disagree with the tendering policy. We believe that it is not in favour of Norwegian railway operations, and we are looking to take care of Norwegian companies in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e965	The previous government took a legal decision in Stortinget that Norway should join, and all legislation was also clear. It would not have been less demanding for the government if you had not joined afterwards. Then, of course, many of the same challenges would arise, as long as the government disagrees with parts of the fourth railway package. But my question was not hypothetical, because it is undisputed that if you, for example. to exercise the right of reservation or to request a derogation from parts of a Directive or a Directive package, it must be assumed that the part of the EEA Agreement in question is abandoned. That is the consequence that we have not yet seen, because the right of reservation has never been used, nor have we ever seen that a government has applied for exemptions for specific parts of a directive package. So the question is simply not hypothetical, it's completely real. What are the consequences and consequences of the government’s willingness to live with in order to implement these exemptions for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e972	I very much disagree with the representative's analysis here, that this is not a hypothetical question. We are committed to maintaining the EEA Agreement, but unlike the previous government, we are committed to finding out what the space for action is. That was the former government a little too little busy. It's about taking care of Norwegian interests, it's about making decisions about Norwegian railway policy in Stortinget, and that's the way we're trying to get knowledge about what's the Norwegian action room. And when the former government chose to implement the fourth railway package, after the roll-out was held, they – in my opinion – agreed to put the National Assembly in a difficult situation. So we want to move on to a process with the EU to see what is the Norwegian action space in this context. But the EEA Agreement, it is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e980	My question to the Council of State is: ‘Does the Government want to freeze all transfers of EEA funds to Poland in the light of the opinion of the Polish Constitutional Court that the Polish Government can legislate on EU law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e985	The EEA funds are an obligation Norway has undertaken through agreements with the EU and each of the 15 beneficiary countries. These agreements, as well as legislation and regulations form the legal framework for this scheme. This also includes provisions on when, as a donor country, we may intervene to stop transfers, programmes or different projects. In line with good rule of law, we relate to this framework when we make our assessments and when we impose sanctions. The previous government has made use of the sanctions provided for in EEA legislation, where justified. The sitting government will continue this line. In cases where countries do not respect the basic assumptions of the funds, this will lead to reactions from Norwegian authorities. It is with great concern that we see the negative development of the rule of law and democracy in Poland and the increasing conflict between Poland and the EU institutions relating to the rule of law, fundamental principles and decisions of the European Court of Justice. When I sat on Stortinget, I sent a written question to the former Minister for Foreign Affairs about support for so-called LHBTI-free municipalities in Poland. The previous government then made it clear that these Polish municipalities and regions would have been cut off from aid through the EEA funds. It's an action we want to continue. Polish authorities are well aware of our concerns. There has also been increasing pressure on the Polish government from European partners and the European Commission. We notice that the Polish authorities have begun to signal adjustments. This is positive, but there is still reason to monitor critically whether developments are going in the wrong direction over many years. I can assure you that we will do that, and we will continue to assess which measures are most appropriate in the future. Finally, it is important to establish that the EEA funds are not a direct financial support to the Polish government. The EEA funds are allocated to programmes and designed in cooperation with Norwegian partners, with clear performance requirements approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In fact, Polish authorities are responsible for the day-to-day management of the majority of funds. However, the EEA funds are multi-annual and no money-holding governments can use as they please. We have control of how the funds are used and follow up on whether they achieve agreed objectives and results.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e998	I understand that the Council of State is hesitating to take the step of freezing EEA funds to Poland. It is a very serious signal to send. However, when the Polish Constitutional Court allows the government to put Polish law before EU law, I still believe it is time to assess this measure. The primacy of European law is the whole guarantee that the EU will remain a Union of democracies. This is not just about what is happening in Poland, it is also about the credibility of the EEA funds and the signal it sends to other beneficiary countries if we do not clearly demonstrate that this is an unacceptable principle to live by for an EU member. In view of the signal it will send to other recipients of EEA funds, how do the Councils view the effect of continuing EEA payments to Poland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1005	I think it is important at this point that we continue what was the policy of the former government. When the EEA funds for Hungary were stopped, there was no general protest. That's because we didn't guarantee an independent fund manager, which meant we didn't have the control that this money went to civil society. It's in such a context that we have to see these means. If these funds are not used for what they are going to do, I will not hesitate to stop payments, but it must be on the basis that we do, that we know that the money does not go to what we thought they should go to. I believe that the role that Norway has had with regard to independent justice and human rights issues – on which we have had a very clear profile, and which we will continue to have – is quite undeniable, but I think it is very difficult to draw parallels between what has happened in Poland and Hungary, because at least until now we have seen that this money has been important for the development of civil society in Poland.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1012	I understand the council then that the council does not want to stop these payments as long as we know what the money is going to, and that they go to what they're going to. Does this mean that the Council of State does not consider it an appropriate sanction — if it is to be called — related to what is now happening in Poland, that the judicial system is in practice breaking down? In that case, does the Council of State have other proposals for things a state that Norway can do? The challenge here, as I said in my previous question, is not only related to developments in Poland, but also to the possible impact on other EU countries. My question is: if you don't want to use this tool, what tools can you use?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1019	This is a question that has many dilemmas, not only in Poland but also in Norwegian aid. Should all aid, including civil society, be frozen when a country goes in the wrong direction? There are a lot of negative effects of that. What has been Norwegian in these contexts is that when we have the means to use through civil society, it benefits human rights. What we have done to Hungary, we have come to understand, among others, EU countries. We have supported some of the steps we have taken towards Hungary. It will also apply in our relationship with Poland. There is increasing attention from the EU on the development of the rule of law in Poland. We support the work of the European Union on this. We are also clear about what we are communicating in contact with the Polish authorities. Then we must always consider what is appropriate in the case of Norwegian funds. If it goes to civil society, it is an advantage for the democratic development of Poland and other countries with which we cooperate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1029	‘The former Minister of Foreign Affairs believes that the content of Palestinian school books has been improved and frozen funds paid out to the Palestinian education sector. But the report from the Georg Eckert Institute says that the teaching material still glorifies violence and promotes attitudes toward Israel and Jews that are unacceptable. Could the government be aware of contributing to the financing of a educational system using school books that promote these attitudes, thereby undermining a peaceful solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1036	I share the view of former Foreign Minister Eriksen Soreide that the content of Palestinian school books has been improved from 2017 until today. The Georg Eckert Institute, to which the representative refers, has submitted a report which also shows this. However, it is clear that there are still examples of problematic content in Palestinian schoolbooks, and we are working for further improvements in curriculum books even though progress has been made in the right direction, as underlined in the report to which the representative refers. The fact that the EU, which is ordering this report, has also maintained training support for Palestine also reinforces this impression. Education is a fundamental human right and a high priority in Norwegian development cooperation. In Palestine, Norway, through several governments, has supported the construction and renovation of schools and the training of teachers and teachers. Norway does not finance Palestinian schoolbooks or curriculum development. The Norwegian funds for the education sector are channelled through the multi-currency mechanism, which includes several countries, among others. Finland, Ireland and Germany, and control mechanisms have also been established in cooperation to ensure that the funds are used in line with the objectives pursued. The government wants to help raise the quality of education in Palestine. During the period in which the content of the Palestinian school books has improved, key providers of education, including Norway and the EU, have also had good dialogue with Palestinian authorities. This dialogue has also continued since this report was published. According to the report, the content of the school books remains to be improved, but the school books are largely in line with UNESCO standards, and this is also reflected in the position of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs on the budget for 2022. Palestinian education authorities are also clear that they want to increase the quality of their own syllabus. Then there's a part that's been removed and adjusted in the textbooks, but that's a significant potential for improvement. Education support is an area that governments have given priority to, because we believe it is important for Palestinian children to receive good education and also to receive training in human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1047	It is 83 years since crystal night, and unfortunately Jewish hatred and antisemitism live in the best of times – unfortunately also in Palestinian school books. If there's been any improvement, it's awfully long before you're in the goal of this. So the tenth grade is asked to think and reflect on what cases jihad is important for the liberation of Palestine, and how this is an individual obligation for any Muslim. The ninth grade is taught that those who die as martyrs when they kill infidelity will receive great reward. Fifth graders are encouraged to jihad and to sacrifice their lives to free the Al-Aqsa mosque. How can the Minister of Foreign Affairs accept that Norwegian tax money goes – earmarked – to the Palestinian education sector, as we know, despite improvement, promotes jihad and Jewish hatred?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1054	I do not quite agree with these strong claims that Palestinian schools funded by Norway, Germany, the United Kingdom, and also UNRWA, contribute to the promotion of Jewish hatred. In view of these examples, which are referred to: Well, now we have a report that shows that there has been improvement in this area. I think it's important that we're critical, but to label a whole Palestinian school system, I don't think it's appropriate in this context either. Of course, we're taking a sharp distance from any expression of antisemitism and hateful statements, and we'll do that in it as well. But such a general stamping of the schools that Norway is funding, I'm not in.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1059	Apologising for things going on in the Palestinian school, trying to minimize them, is at the expense of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The government has now announced further increased assistance to UNRWA, 50 million. NOK 2022. 60 pst. of the budget for the training of Palestinian children and teenagers. It is that there is still Jewish hatred and antisemitism, and the Georg Eckert Institute has pointed out that it still does not keep UNESCO standards when you look at what goes on between Jews and Israel. Antisemitism and the glorification of violence are not compatible with UNESCO standards, as they themselves say. IMPACT-se has had a more complete analysis, and it shows the same thing. It's a long way to go. Why does the government at the top of it all want to increase support for marketing – as we know is happening – jihad, terrorism, Jew hatred and antisemitism in Palestinian school? For this money also contributes to it. What is it to stop this support?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1068	I take a sharp distance from the representative's general characterisation of Palestinian schools. I think one of the most important things we can do in the fight for human rights, in the fight against anti-semitism and for tolerance is to educate children. Children without knowledge and education are not a good tool in the work for peace and a lasting two-state solution. I am proud that this government is increasing support for Palestinian self-government by increasing UNRWA funding. I will also be the host of the donor country conference for Palestinian refugees to the week. I think that's a very important work. Economic collapse and lack of education are not a good tool in the fight for tolerance and in the fight against anti-semitism.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1082	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1099	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 10 is moved and answered before question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1116	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1124	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘How will the State Council address the major challenges of old Finnmark counties, with, among other things, disqualification for high school boys, now that it is towards the dissolution of Troms and Finnmark?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1131	All residents regardless of their place of residence should have a good service offer in their community. The government will facilitate people to live where they want, by ensuring good, basic services throughout the country. Finnmark is an area of challenges, but also with great opportunities. Through the Hurdal platform, we establish that the northern regions are Norway's most important strategic bet area. The government will renew and strengthen its efforts and have great ambitions for development in the north. Through the Northern Region policy and rural policy, the ambitions are to exploit local values to generate growth and to have greater regional ring-effects of activities in the northern regions. The personalised actions in Finnmark and Nord-Troms will be evaluated, and a programme to increase knowledge of personalised actions in rural policy will be particularly important for this part of the country. The representative of Skkelstad specifically mentions non-response for boys in high school. I have obtained information from the Ministry of Knowledge. Finnmark has the lowest completion in the country: about seven out of ten of the students complete, compared to eight out of ten throughout the country as a whole. This is a problem we have to take seriously. However, statistics indicate that Finnmark is moving in the right direction. The completion of Finnland students has increased by a total of 16.5 percentage points over the last eight years, compared to an increase of 8 percentage points throughout the country. In other words, the differences have decreased considerably. The government wants to support the good work done in Finnmark in recent years – strengthened county economy is a contribution. There is now a proposal, after consultation, to introduce an extended right to secondary education, which will give a right to training until completion and passing on study and professional competence. This will give students who need some more time, increased opportunities to complete. Finnmark is one of the areas with the highest professional participation over several years, especially among boys. For this reason, actions aimed at professional and multi-disciplinary education will be particularly important in order to ensure that more than one person completes and consists of professional or bachelor letters in Finnmark. The Government proposes, in its additional proposal, a commitment to strengthening the work of county councils to ensure more places of learning, and to providing more people with training opportunities and qualifications. That boys complete less than girls is a national problem. The boys in Finnmark have increased their completion by a total of 22 percentage points over the last eight years, and the gender differences in completion are now about the same in Finland as in the whole country overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1142	In the Hurdal platform, we can read that the government wants it to be a total of three people-elected levels in Norway – as today. We should understand that the government believes that the best model to ensure that citizens are both local and county level, with good services and best offers. Furthermore, we should assume that the government wants to facilitate that all states are large enough and equipped to care for their inhabitants, but not least ensure that in the future you can look at new and exciting tasks. During the budget hearing of the Municipal Committee on Monday, we heard about the good experience of Agder after the merger. But it worries how a resolution of the states of smaller units will affect the tasks of the states in the future. Is it a concern that the Council of State also shares? So it might be interesting to ask, given a previous question to the Council of State, where I heard what he said about high school: Is it likely, when you lose a wider environment of competence like that of Troms and Finnmark, that this will improve the situation for high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1149	I can absolutely confirm that the government wants to invest at three levels of government, and the county councils have an important role to play in Norway. It is also one of the reasons why we are now choosing to strengthen the county economy so clearly through the supplementary number of the state budget, where the free revenues increase by 0.5 billion. kr at the top of what was in the Solberg government proposal. In addition, reference is made to the Hurdal platform here. That's very good. It says that we want to look at how we can further strengthen county authorities' responsibilities to solve more tasks. I believe that it is fully possible to do so within the state structure we have today, and the one that might have to remain after we have dissolved coerced county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1156	It is well and good that you increase the county framework. However, the Council of State does not respond to the development of competence, which in turn means a stronger implementation at the higher level. We know the potential of Troms and Finnmark. Regional reform has responded to some of the challenges facing the county. However, due to strong resistance – where the Center Party has also contributed strongly – Troms and Finnmark have barely started after the merger. Does the Council share my concern that the political resistance, especially in Finnmark, deprives the new county of the opportunity to actually test out what could be achieved as a powerful region? Is this how to understand the answers I get from the Council of State, that the Council of State believes that the generalist principle of county councils should be waived?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1161	We must first note that despite the description now given by the representative of Skkelstad, many years of good work in Finnmark has produced results. The sharp increase in the level of implementation must be joyous. Then it refers to the turmoil that has occurred in Troms and Finnmark in recent years related to regional reform. Well, that's the result of the previous government choosing to force against local democracy – including what I would say is the old People's Party Left, which has been at the forefront of using force against what has been the people in Finnmark's desire to control their own development. I think it's been a very worrying policy, and I'm at least happy that the new government is making it possible for coercive county councils to be dissolved if they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1171	‘20 pst. Norwegian municipalities have an expected population growth of over 15 pst. by 2050. High population growth can pose major challenges for several large municipalities. Negative population developments have been mentioned many times in the government platform, but the government does not present concrete solutions related to population growth. Why does the government not prioritize this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1178	Today, more than 80 pst live. by the population of cities and agglomerations, and we know that population growth is particularly strong in and around the big cities. It goes without saying that that relationship is important to the government. Urban policies and policies for growth areas are expressed in many ways. An important tool in urban policy is urban growth agreements. In the four major urban areas, the government will offer municipalities to increase the state contribution to 70 pst. in the major collective projects in and around the major cities. We're going to link infrastructure to housing and increase housing around the public nodes of the big cities. State planning guidelines for coordinated housing, land and transport planning provide for development in a way that saves land, allows the use of public transport and facilitates easier access to joint services. We know that there are areas in the big cities that have special challenges, and that is why we are so clear in the Hurdal platform that we want to strengthen and expand the area initiatives. The Hurdal platform points out that the gap in living conditions between poor urban areas and the rest of the country is increasing. The government will improve living conditions, social mobility and the fight against child poverty in cities and therefore proposes to allocate 20 million already in the additional number. kr more than the previous government of the area bets. At the same time, we propose to strengthen the free revenues of municipalities by a further 2 billion. kr next year, in addition to the proposals of the previous government. This benefits all the municipalities. The ten largest municipalities in the country will total almost 580 million. kr more with our proposal. The free income is distributed through the income system where a large part of the grants is broken down by population. This means that municipalities with high population growth over time will receive increased income. There is also a separate growth grant within the income system to capture that municipalities with particularly high population growth may have short-term difficulties in adapting service provision to a growing population. In 2022, 12 municipalities will add up to 146 million. kr in growth grants. Most of these growth municipalities are located in metropolitan regions with high population pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1191	Thanks for the answer. Here there were a lot of numbers and systems, but very little about people and the content of what the government wants. Let me pursue a little bit of this with the area bets. The government boasts that they're worth 20 million. kr more, but I'm very curious about what this means in content. How does the government want to use the funds for regional development? I remember very well that one of the government parties warned the voters against the right in government most likely not continuing. It was renewed and extended under the Right of Government. At the same time, we know that it is being reported, for example. Here in Oslo, that the funds remain unused. Similar questions can probably be asked about other areas. Can the Council of State say something more specific about how to use the funds in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1196	Yes, I can say something about that. In Bergen, the budget is increased by 5 million. SEK to be invested in Loddefjord and Olsvik, together with SEK 17.9 million. kr. The funds shall support actions such as the upgrading of community facilities, the establishment of social meeting places and measures to ensure that children and young people do not drop out of school. In Trondheim, the municipality has started work on two new regional initiatives, Lademoen and Tempe/Sorgenfri, for which the municipality wants to cooperate with the state. The government is increasing the budget by 5 million. kr to support during the new bet – a total of 8.2 million. kr. The aim is to create a better environment, housing, services and living conditions in areas in close cooperation with citizens. In the case of Oslo, by 10 million. kr, there is an increase of 25 pst. of the funds for the Groruddalssatsingen. A few days ago, I was looking at the work that is going on in the Groruddalen, and noted in particular the work that is going on to bring young people into the labour market – completing school and gradually entering the workplace. I thought that was very positive to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1201	I agree with another thing that the Council of State addressed in its first article, and that is that if you want to develop the large pressure areas where population growth is high, you have to look at land development, work regions, etc. under one. However, one of the challenges in just this type of region is that several municipalities are segregated and planning instead of contracting. There is a potential to continue the community reform, at least to facilitate a number of municipalities to see it positive that, instead of sitting on each other's laps, there are more opportunities to merge and deliver better services together, where it is natural. In what way does the Council of State think that the additional number and the government platform – especially if you look at the central party's policy – will facilitate that kind of thing? Will the Council of State itself take any initiatives to enable the reform of the municipality to continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1206	This is an area in which there is a clear change of course from the previous government, where the previous government through many different interventions actively facilitated both the merger of municipalities and, not least, the coercion of local democracy to coercion municipalities. It is not the policy of the new government, rather the opposite. We have confidence that local democracy, individual local government or county councils can make adjustments themselves to their future self-existence. Then we agree that there is a need to see areas in context. If we look at the eastern part of the country and the area around Oslo, it will in any case not be possible for one to imagine that a municipal reform should be able to respond to the need for municipalities and county councils to coordinate themselves in land and transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1214	My question goes to the Minister for Transport: «Since the party of the Council of State now controls the municipality of Fredrikstad, the municipality of Håler and the municipality of Viken, and is the largest party in the Grand Duchy and in the government and also has the Minister of Transport, it is expected that the clearest election promise to the current Minister of Transport and his party will be followed up. Can the Council of State guarantee that we will have to build a new Køkøysund bridge without tolls, and when will it notify the government of the grant come?"
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1223	This is the road from Kråkerøy and out towards Kjøkøy in Fredrikstad. This road is county council, and there are no government appropriations for this project. I therefore do not see it as natural to intervene in this matter, but I can inform you that it signed, among other things. said in the election campaign, that a new government would mean a better county economy and thus increased the scope for action of the county to implement measures. And that's what the government has supplied. I am aware that this matter is being worked on locally, but as far as I am aware, it is not suggested that the project be financed with tolls. It is also very clear that it is not desirable from local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1230	The party of the Council of State sits in the County Council, which is now committed and committed to funding this with tolls. That was also why the Council of State had a nice picture in front of the bridge mentioned a few months ago when he said that the new Køkøysund bridge must be regarded as a maintenance project, not a connection, and then it is wrong to charge tolls, and that he expects more money to come to the county roads and bridges from the new government, so that we do not have a challenge here, and that this can be resolved. He said that a new government would simply fix this. Now there is a new government, and the Council of State now has the full opportunity to follow up the completely unambiguous, clear election promise. So I have to ask again, when is the allocation coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1235	Now we have been in government for a little over three weeks, and we have delivered an additional number, we have not delivered a complete budget proposal from our hand. What's on the Hurdals platform is that we're going to make an obligatory plan for the maintenance of county roads along with the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1240	As I interpret the Council of State, he says that the money comes from the state and from the government – and it is possibly very pleasing – but that the Council of State will not fix it exactly when it comes. But I hope then that the Council of State can be very clear here and now that I have understood it correctly, because that means that the county council can go on speeding up this work as well, and you can also be clear that tolls are completely out of date. For the situation is quite acute, we so recently in Fredrikstad Blade that there are danger signs up on the bridge. I also don't think it's the Center Party that's holding back, and when it's a pure Workers' Party and Center Party government, you can get this done. But I ask the Council of State to clarify this. Is it then about in the next entire state budget that he intends to grant the money he promised two months ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1247	I said quite clearly that this is a county project, and it will be the county municipality that prioritises its road projects. I also said that, in line with what I said in the election campaign, we have strengthened the county economy. And of course, it will always be up to local authorities how they prioritise the money they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1255	This question, from the representative Ingjerd Schou to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for Climate and Environment, who is directing him. However, the question is answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1262	«The forested engine centre was opened in 1990 and has since experienced enormous developments. The country’s national motorsport facilities are now at risk of having to close the gates, because the Oslo and Viken State Manager will impose severe restrictions on the activity of Rudskogen by prohibiting all road driving throughout the month of June and limiting competition to only eight Sundays of the year. Does the Council of State support these restrictions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1269	It is the responsibility of the noise source, the motorsport centre, which is also responsible for its noise emissions. The State administrator is the pollution authority in this case and may, under the pollution law, impose requirements on, inter alia. operation and noise in emission permits. When setting conditions, the disadvantages caused by the noise must be weighed against the other advantages and disadvantages of the engine centre. There must also be a balance of interest, where, for example: the positive aspects of the motorsport centre for the community will also have an impact. The State Manager of Oslo and Viken have not yet taken a final decision on the matter and have sent a draft amended authorisation to Rudskogen Motorsenter, to which they have then made a comment. In the past, there has also been a consultation process in which other stakeholders have been given the opportunity to make their input. I cannot comment further on the specific terms or requirements proposed by the State Manager in this case. As I see it, the aim has been to find good solutions both for noise-induced neighbours and for the engine centre. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1276	This is a complaint and a situation that has been going on for all the years that Rudskogen Motorzentrum has existed. This is a national motorsport facility, and I also understand that there has been a certain discussion about which state council should respond to this. The Council of State, which is now responding on behalf of the Minister for Climate and Environment, also has a share in this matter, and it also has the Municipal Council of State and the Council of State for Culture and Sport. So far, four state councils have shares in this case. I hear that the Council of State who answers will wash their hands and wait and wait for the Governor of the State. But my small question is about the Council of State and the government politically supports the restrictions that the State Manager has temporarily come along with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1281	As I said, it is the State Manager who is the pollution authority in this case and who had to assess the matter under the pollution law. There is also reason to stress that no final decision has been taken in this case. And then it could be that if you don't agree, you'll be able to sue it, and then it'll go further in the process. It would be wrong for a Council of State to interfere in such an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1286	Then I really hope that the Council of State and the government will interfere when the State Manager has said their word, because with this type of stranglehold at a national motorsport centre, both government and government risk parking the entire national motorsport system, because the benefits are on these Sundays, and they are also in the month mentioned as June. At some point, I also think it is necessary to put down your feet and say that if you live in an area with a national motorsports centre, it's like the rest of the country when you're in the countryside: you have to tolerate both cum smoke and motor noise. This is true, and you have to make your choices based on the fact that you may then have to leave the place – if you cannot have a national motorsport facility nearby. So my final question is, when can we expect a decision? Summer will soon be at the door.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1291	It does not understand, I am aware that comments have come back from the motorsport centre of the State Manager, and that the State Manager will make a decision in the matter at some point. Of course, we can wait for that decision, and then we'll see how the motorsports centre behaves after that. So it will, a little bit depending on what you choose, become an ongoing process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1299	I would like to ask the following questions, starting with a quote from the Minister for Transport in local times in Bergen, where he says: ‘‘- The State grant shall not be used to provide cost-effective solutions and shall be planned as if the municipality itself paid for the solution’, the Council of State is quoted in the Bergen newspapers. Here one interferes with a local regulatory case where the views of the Workers' Party appear to be in the minority of the City Council. Does the Council of State consider it right to make such a statement as may affect the local regulatory process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1308	The national transport plan for 2022-2033 provides for a grant to co-finance the further development of the urban railway for Åsane as a new 50-50 project. In NTP, an estimate of the total cost of 12 billion has been provisionally taken into account. kr. The start of the building depends on the further development of the project. An urban railway to Åsane is not part of the completed metropolitan talk with the Bergen area. The existence of an external quality assurance of costs, a KS2 is also a prerequisite for determining the final State contribution to the project. Guidelines were laid down for the State sub-financing of such 50-50 projects by the previous government in 2014. In particular, these guidelines indicate, as the representative Mr Njåstad points out, that the State grant is not intended to provide cost-effective solutions, that it is to be planned as if the local authority itself were to provide the funding. I think that is a good guideline, and I also notice that it was a former Progress Party State Council that supported that proposal. I do not interfere with local regulatory processes for this project, but since this is a project where half of the costs are to be paid by the state and the other half are to be covered by local teams, which in practice will mean tolls, I would also believe that the representative Njåstad agrees with me that it is important to focus on costs. That is what the guidelines set out by the previous government for the 50-50 scheme show. This is why I believe that the decision on concrete trasé elections through the centre of Bergen could have an impact on the determination of the state's share of the project. That's also what I said to the municipality of Bergen when they contacted the department to find out if the trasé choice could affect the determination of the state contribution. But, as I said, no final decision has been taken on the state contribution as of now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1319	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. I would like to stress that this representative does not want the construction of an urban railway, because I do not want the caristics to pay through tolls, or that the state should spend so much money on collectives that only hit a few, when a person could spend a smaller amount and get a better collective service with metrobuses for more. However, when, on 24 November, Bergen's city council is to have regulatory planning authority and choose a trasé, we are, of course, concerned that it will be done in a good way locally to preserve the world heritage. Is it something that the Council of State is also involved in as Minister of Transport, that a non-infrastructure is built in a way that puts world heritage at risk? Is there a moment that he thinks should be stressed in a regulatory process?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1326	I think it's a matter where local decision-making authorities have to take all the perspectives along the way. The perspective we have contributed to is to respond to how costs can run, and how this can be handled by the Department and the Stortinget in such a process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1331	Now the state council did not answer my question about World Heritage status, something that he would like to emphasize. One plays it on to the local city council, which is planning authority. Then one must be able to take all possible care and wait for the state to set up. I thought it was a little special that a minister from a party who before one came into position gave the impression in Bergen that a talk about 70 pst. participation from the state, and that it shouldn't be on the money, now, in position, refers to the outgoing government's policy and says it's 50 pst, and maybe below that, which is the line. What is the reason why the Workers' Party before the election will talk about up to 70 pst, while one after the election will talk about under 50 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1338	The Hurdal platform shows that the new government will offer municipalities to increase that grant in the 50-50 scheme to 70 pst. No specific position has been taken on how to align that increase. That's something we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1346	«The government is talking about the electrification of society; the car park, Norwegian base, ferries, etc. shall be electrified. In the sector, electrification is guaranteed and the sum can be challenging in terms of access to renewable energy. Recently, the Minister of Oil and Energy also had to admit that it would be difficult to electrify the base with sea wind by 2030. NVE estimates increased power requirements of 23 TWh up to 2040. How will the Council of State ensure an increase in power generation when almost the entire community is electrified?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1353	Access to sufficient clean and reasonable power will continue to be a priority for Norwegian industry and contribute to value creation and employment throughout the country. By increasing the use of renewable energy, we are making it possible to achieve our climate objectives. As the representative points out, electrification of society will increase power consumption. At the same time, electrification will lead to a reduction in total energy use since the use of electricity is more energy efficient than the use of fossil energy. Norway has a good starting point for electrifying major parts of energy use. Today we have a power surplus of 20 TWh in a year with normal weather conditions. We also have a power system with great controllability. More developments, including increased growth in consumption, can make it more profitable to expand new power generation in the coming years. In its long-term power market analysis, the NVE estimates a production increase of 28 TWh against 2040. The NVE further estimates that Norway will also have a surplus of power in 2030 and 2040. These estimates take into account an increase in Norwegian power consumption as a result of electrification and new industry. We want to increase Norwegian hydropower generation and also point to opportunities for small power and wind power in places where there is local acceptance and good wind resources. In the supplementary proposal we put forward on Monday, we have proposed to increase the appropriations for work on offshore wind power. This is necessary in order to facilitate a large-scale investment in sea wind, which is both well adapted to the shore-based power system and includes investment in the Norwegian supplier industry. We're working on building a coherent value chain in hydrogen, where production, distribution and use are developed in parallel. In the Hurdal Platform, government parties have presented a number of measures to meet an increasing energy demand as a result of electrification. We are now doing this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1372	I record that the Council's reality description does not entirely agree with what we see in today's image with pressed power markets, lack of transmission capacity and sky-high power prices. It's good with views, and it's good you're ambitious. It's even better if it's anchored in the real world. In the real world, the government wants to use the power we don't have, over lines we don't have, to implement costly symbolic climate measures to save the world for little Norway. At the same time, it is reported from Western countries, from which both the representative and the Council of State are originally, that ten energy-intensive renewable industrial projects are at risk of being cancelled due to a lack of power and robust enough networks. This problem will only increase when everything is electrified, especially Norwegian pedestal, which alone requires all the power produced in the entire old Hordaland county, Norway’s largest power group in 2019. In the opinion of the Council of State, it is better for the climate and for employment that the priority must be given to electrification of Norwegian pedestal rather than new power-intensive, green industrial ventures, among others. in Westland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1379	Governments are concerned that we should expand the power grid, that we get a transmission capacity that matches the need we have for future power. Rich and renewable energy has always been one of our foremost competitive advantages in dealing with the world and export markets, and it should continue to be. We have a large process industry on land that is power-intensive and that needs power. We're also going to expand it in the future, and we need to increase transmission capacity to achieve that goal. But we also have a big industry on the base that we're going to develop, and not liquidate, because it gives us huge incomes and jobs many. It is also important for the energy transformation that is taking place, not only in Norway, but throughout Europe, that we produce Norwegian gas for use both in Europe and in hydrogen production.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1386	I record that the Council of State did not respond to my question and thought it was okay not to facilitate the renewable and powerful industry in the West over costly symbolism measures. The state incurs billions. We incur much more than budgeted in VAT on electricity because of the sky-high power prices. This is taken directly from the population's pocket. The Progress Party recently proposed to remove VAT and electricity charges for the current fiscal year, but the Government parties voted against them. Clearly, the government's parties consider it important to have a total of 12 000 billion. kr and not 11 997 br. kr on State pension funds abroad at the end of the year, than people can afford to buy warm houses and can afford to buy Christmas gifts. As I understand the answers from the Council of State, there are not great plans to take extra action under the government's government for faster state-funded deployment of better network connections, but that this will be done by collecting the money from the population. Does the Council of State really think it is right for the Norwegian population to organise the political electrification of the socket? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1395	The president reminds me of the clock that counts down. It's not recommended time – it's absolute time, so you have to stay within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1400	It may be that the representative did not get the essence of my answer. The point is that reasonable and plentiful access to power should be our competitive advantage for the future. Then I will not set up land-based important industry to create new jobs and new markets for new green industry, which we will live on in the future, against what is happening on the base. We need more electricity both to electrify and to produce and create new energy on the base. It's not necessarily the opposite of this. On the contrary, transmission capacity is needed to facilitate both. And with all due respect to report, we have run this department for four weeks, and I have plans to rule for four years – at least – and then we're going to put on the table a lot of concrete plans. The strange thing is that little has happened in eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1405	We're going to go to question 25.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1413	This question, from the representative Mr. Bård Ludvig Thorheim to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1418	‘Under the Solberg Government hydrogen was required on the ferries between Lofoten and Bodø. Together with a historically strong investment in infrastructure, and good public-private cooperation, it has laid the foundation for thousands of new, private jobs in the green industry in Northern Ireland. Four sites in the county are planned for large-scale hydrogen production. Government plans for a key hydrogen company appear to be lagging behind. What signal does it send to the Nordic hydrogen companies that they get a key competitor?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1425	In the Hurdal platform, the government is clear that we have great ambitions for the development of the hydrogen market. We'll help build a coherent value chain for hydrogen where production, distribution and use develop in parallel. Furthermore, the platform says that we will set targets for annual production of blue and green hydrogen by 2030, and consider establishing a state hydrogen company. In the government's additional proposition to the government budget, we are following up these ambitions. The government has proposed increased means of launching an overall investigation into the possibilities of hydrogen, including a state hydrogen company. We will come back to this when the matter has been resolved and evaluated. The government is also proposing to increase the allocation to Enova by 200 million. kr to green business conversion. The funds will contribute to emission reductions and green technology development in a number of areas, including: hydrogen. Enova has considerable professional freedom and flexibility to grant support so that the funds are used as efficiently as possible. It's nice to see that there's already a rapid development on hydrogen. Norway has competitive and competent technology environments, and there are a wide range of actors and projects in Norway under development. It also applies in Northern Ireland. The government wants to support this development so that hydrogen can become an important competitive advantage that can both contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increase value creation and more profitable jobs in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1438	I note that the Council of State does not respond to the question that both myself and the industry in Northern Ireland are concerned about. We have a Norwegian tradition of public and private cooperation, of triggering demand, as the Solberg government did with the Vestfjord ferries. When we have companies that invest billions of dollars to meet this demand, they need to know how much this key hydrogen company is going to produce from hydrogen. And is it going to cover, and sell on, the same market as the private competitors that we now see show up in Northernland?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1443	I just point out that in the Hurdal platform – and I have said that in the answer I have already given – we say that we will consider establishing a state hydrogen company. We're doing this, and we're going to come back to how this is going to be done. So in the supplementary proposition, we're proposing increased means of launching an overall exploration for hydrogen, and the goal is just to create the whole service line where we both produce and also have a market. I believe it is important to have a strong domestic market in order to be able to produce, so that we can also export and have an important export industry in the future. So I don't want to pre-empt what the investigation falls on. At the same time, I would like to say that the purpose is therefore that the government's work contributes to building hydrogen as an energy carrier that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions and develop Norwegian industry and supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1450	Then I interpret the council to that, but if it becomes a principal hydrogen company, then you actually have to produce hydrogen. Then it will be very useful for business to know exactly what scale and to which markets, so that they have clear things to deal with, even if such a major company can operate with a dwindling deficit and dump prices. I am absolutely sure that a lot of people are interested in getting a clarification on that kind of question. Does the Council of State consider it a good Norwegian tradition for this kind of industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1457	Like the representative, I have also traveled quite a lot around in the election campaign. It was very fun, because we've been shut down for a long time, and a lot of business actors – including in this business – are calling for more government contributions, a more active government policy, as one of those instruments. We have to make demands, but we also have to make demands. So it's been called in this election campaign, and we're now working on how we're going to do this. In the Hurdal platform, we have pointed to a number of possible instruments to achieve this, and state hydrogen companies are something we can assess, but there are also other instruments that are important — for example: The CO 2 tax, public acquisitions and the provision of long-term capital are instruments to be used. If we are to succeed in the development of hydrogen, we must use all necessary tools throughout the toolbox, and the state and private actors must work together – as the representative also points out.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1467	We go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1475	‘Last year, a health economic analysis was carried out which concludes that access to CGM for insulin-treated patients with type 2 diabetes will not result in increased public expenditure. On the contrary, increased access to CGM results in better control of blood sugar, which in turn reduces health-related costs. Why are patients with type 2 diabetes taking insulin treated differently from patients with type 1 diabetes when it comes to accessing a continuous glucose meter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1482	I would first like to say that it is not that patients with type 2 diabetes are systematically discriminated against from patients with type 1 diabetes. Good knowledge of the level of blood sugar is important and therefore self-measurement of blood sugar is recommended in all patients treated with insulin. However, there are different types of devices that patients can use to measure their own blood sugar level. National Professional Guidelines of the Health Directorate recommend that people with type 1 diabetes should be assessed for the use of continuous blood sugar meters, i.e. CGM meters, to which the representative Hoksrud refers. I would also point out that the health economic analysis to which the representative refers is an analysis carried out by industry representatives. The health service has processes for knowledge assessment and decisions on public financing of medical devices and consumables. It is the regional health establishments that decide to access and finance medical devices, for which glucose meters are the responsibility of patients for which they are responsible. Regional health establishments have informed that the individual’s health status determines the type of glucose meter offered. This means that people with type 2 diabetes have also been offered CGM on an individual basis. The introduction of CGM into specialist healthcare for a larger patient group shall be in line with the principles of priority. The Institute for Public Health is responsible for and competent to assess the knowledge base for this type of equipment. Processes are currently in progress which may have an impact on the public funding of medical devices. The evaluation report on the system for new methods shall be delivered on 18 November. Independently, there is work going on in regional health establishments to clarify the types of medical devices to be assessed in new methods. Our goal is for all people with diabetes to have good public health care treatment and follow-up and to have their needs evaluated individually.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1493	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I feel that it is quite different from what she stood for when she was in opposition a short time ago. I also record that when she was on the Health and Care Committee, the Council of State took part in a majority comment stating that patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin should be guaranteed access to a continuous glucose meter. Then it is interesting whether the Council of State has suddenly got a completely different view, or whether it is the government that decides what the Council of State should believe in this matter. This is about patients who want to use the continuous glucose meter. It would make sure that you got a much better everyday life by having continuous glucose measurement, just like diabetes type 1 patients do. I have heard the Council of State talk more and more warmly about this, I also know that the Council of State has talked very much about the cost picture relating to this, so I start to wonder if it is the government that has taken total control of the Council of State, or if she believes what she has meant as opposition policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1500	That's not right, what the representative Hoksrud says. I said very clearly in my answer that those patients who have type 2 diabetes, and who benefit from CGM meters, have got it in public health, and they should get it when they benefit from it. There are no similarities between these two diseases. I really wanted diabetes type 1 and type 2 diabetes to have a very different name. There are two different diseases that are treated differently. Not all diabetic type 2 patients benefit from a continuous blood sugar monitor, nor do I see the point of public health care giving it to them. We can have a long discussion about how we got there that through the regional health companies, this kind of good tool was given to monitor our own disease. In the past, diabetes patients themselves did this with strips and poorer technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1509	I experience a state council in a slippery way away from what she argued for and talked about as an opposition politician. I think it's sad, because we know that low blood sugar as a result of insulin treatment leads to high social costs and strain on the individual patient. Good control of blood sugar is essential for this patient group, and it could be interesting to further challenge the Council of State on the importance of availability of continuous glucose meters for patients with type 2 diabetes using insulin to avoid low blood sugar and the negative consequences of this condition. The council says that everyone who needs it, and you think you should have it, gets it. But it should probably also be a little bit up to what patients and users think and feel about this. I don't think it's the same opinion and experience in patients who want to use this, but who are denied it by the health service. And I record as I said that Kjerkol, having become the Council of State, has got a completely different view of this matter than she had before. We're probably not going to finish this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1516	This is a story of history that has no root in reality. What I said in my answer, and which I would like to repeat a third time, is that type 2 diabetes discs that benefit from continuous blood sugar measurement have both received it from their regional health company and should receive it. But it's not like all type 2 diabetes spaces use this tool. What was the story of the type 1 patients was that earlier, when we didn't have this kind of technology, they picked up strips of blue prescriptions at the pharmacy, and they didn't charge the hospitals' budgets. When new technology came in, the previous government went a long way through the Decision Forum before this technology became available to type 1 diabetes patients. To avoid that, I have started a work where the Department now looks at the financial responsibility between the population and regional health companies, in particular for medical devices and consumables.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1524	‘New figures from the Health Directorate show that almost half of the hospital residents are undernourished or at risk of becoming ill. In Oslo, the numbers are worst, with six out of ten residents getting too little nourishment. The Solberg government presented the "Life All Life" reform, which has provided better nutrition in nursing homes, including the move of dinner to regular lunches. The reform is not mentioned in the Hurdals platform. What are the concrete measures to be taken by the government to ensure that fewer elderly people in nursing homes are undernourished?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1531	We know that proper food is fundamental to good health and quality of life for everyone. Therefore, it is a challenge for many older people to eat too little and wrong food. With an increasing proportion of older people, nutrition challenges will increase in the future. In the Hurdal Platform, the government has promoted good nutrition for the elderly as an important area and as part of a reform aimed at ensuring that older people are allowed to live in owner-occupied housing as far as possible if they can and will. Good nutrition in nursing homes is important, but it probably requires people at work, and it requires skills. Therefore, the Hurdals platform also has its own point on a escalation plan for senior care staff. We see that there is a need for more knowledge and competence on food and nutrition follow-up in the care service, so that individuals can have an individually adapted food and nutrition service. A three-year model development programme for clinical nutrition physiology as a resource for care services has already been launched. There are many who work to facilitate the provision of sound and good services by municipalities, including government agencies. At the same time, it is important to remember that municipalities are independent legal entities which are themselves responsible for ensuring the proper provision of services to users based on their individual needs. Therefore, it is also up to each municipality to develop and implement local nutrition strategies and to see this in the context of how health businesses follow up nutrition. We know that many municipalities work well with nutrition, food and meals for the elderly, and we will support the municipalities in this work. When Life was presented throughout his life, KS referred to it as «The most possible policy for least money». This government has now proposed, in the additional number, to increase the free income of municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr in addition to the previous government. It provides session management space to follow up tasks locally. At the same time, we will also look at further actions that contribute to good nutrition tailored to individual needs and desires.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1544	There were a lot of problem descriptions here, where I can agree with the Council of State. In the Hurdal platform, there is one single word about nutrition; it only says ‘good nutrition’. I think what the relatives and the elderly don't need is more problem descriptions, when we know what the problems are, for example. The figures from the Health Directorate show that half is undernourished. So the municipal economy has been very good during the Solberg government, and the Solberg government had a clear direction for what we wanted to do with nutrition when it came to the elderly. We presented the reform Life throughout our lives, we provided the skills needed for health professionals, we have provided a national strategy for good nutrition and nutrition for the elderly in nursing homes and who receive home services. So I want to challenge the Council of States once again on what is the specific direction and the concrete measures, other than what is the problem description, which I think both the relatives and the elderly know very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1551	The municipalities know the problem description very well, and that's why this government has given priority to strengthening them by 2.5 billion. kr in the additional number. I remember well when the reform Life was presented throughout my life. At that time, the Minister for Older People and Public Health said that in this reform there are no new appropriations and no new paragraphs, and that is a little like what has been received. When it comes to the economy of the municipal sector, the representative Svardal Bøe also knows that his government imposed manning challenges on the municipalities in both kindergarten and school, which unfortunately were not fully funded. It has put municipalities in a difficult situation in order to achieve their objectives of better care for the elderly. When it comes to nutrition, I think we can do a lot to bet on skills, and that's what this government is doing through the state effort. We want to help municipalities to make nutrition good and to make the right local assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1560	As far as Life is concerned, one has provided a grant scheme, one has provided for one’s own coordinators, one has moved meals for the elderly, such as: shows that drug use has decreased. So life throughout life has contributed to much better nutrition in the nursing homes. I also think that if a person is to succeed in getting less malnutrition in a nursing home, a follow-up must follow up many of the efforts that the Solberg government started, among other things. Live your whole life. We don't have time to start that work again. I think that would be despairing for the relatives, and I think that would also mean a greater risk of more elderly people becoming undernourished. Then I can agree with the council that we must have the municipalities on the team, and it is the municipalities that are responsible for providing good health care and home services. Most municipalities in Norway are run by the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, so my last question to the Council of State is: How should the Council of State follow up its own municipalities in order to ensure better nutrition at home and at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1569	My predecessors were very concerned about saying that Life all their lives is the community's own reform. They are responsible for this, and the measures identified in the Stortinget report at the time were taken from the local authorities' own initiative and good experience. For this government, it is important to help municipalities achieve their own goals. The whole foundation of Life's whole life reform is that the good solutions are growing from below. We propose to strengthen them financially, and we also propose skills measures to improve the meal experience and to ensure good nutrition for the elderly. I want to draw up the municipality we are in, Oslo, which has a very good system where they use voluntary resources, the ‘food friend’ of older residents. We know that the social framework around the meal provides a good basis for good nutrition. Several such measures will help municipalities to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1585	‘More hospitals report greater pressures than in a long time. The coronary apathy has resulted in many scheduled treatments being postponed and patients having to wait longer for necessary treatment. How will the Council of State ensure that hospitals can handle inflows of patients requiring emergency treatment for covid-19 or other respiratory and influenza diseases, while at the same time maintaining the planned activity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1592	It is not unexpected that the number of hospitalisations is increasing, as society is opening up and infection has increased. We also know that the number of hospitalisations increases in the winter season due to other respiratory infections. This year, this increase has occurred earlier in some areas of the country, and in addition, many children are infected with the RS virus. Medical practitioners and prescribers also experience greater progress due to disease. Overall, this leads to increased sleep time in the emergency wards, increased pressure on the beds and longer waiting time at the hospital centres and at the medical wards. Hospitals have put in place several measures to increase capacity in line with their local emergency plans. It's not unusual in the winter season. Part of the challenge is that in some places there are also ready-to-print patients that municipalities are unable to accept. If the pressure on healthcare becomes too high, we need to assess local, regional or national interventions — in that order. I have asked health regions to report on the total capacity in the future, so that we get a complete overview. This is new, and it will provide us with an even better overview of the burden on the specialist health service, both intensive capacity, bed beds and not least the children's wards, which now also experience great inflows. We have also reintroduced exemptions from the school year’s absenteeism, so that sick students stay at home and the burden on their family members is reduced. All residents of Norway over the age of 16 have now received two doses of corona vaccine. We know that good vaccination significantly reduces infectious and serious disease, and thus also the pressure on hospitals. Last week, the government decided that healthcare professionals who over time have patient contact with vulnerable groups should be offered a refresher. At the same time, municipalities are giving a third dose to immunosuppressed, sick home residents and all over 65 years of age. We closely monitor the situation and will reintroduce measures if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1603	I understand that the situation is now demanding out there. Governments end their response by mentioning vaccines. I am glad that last week the Council of State signaled that health professionals can receive the third dose, but we have another very big challenge, and that is that one in ten health professionals are still unvaccinated. This leads to challenges in municipalities, because we can't feel that healthcare professionals have to be 1 meter away from patients, at least not those who need to work in a patient-friendly way. Has the State Council considered since yesterday, when the Health Director gave his recommendation to look at measures for unvaccinated personnel? Does the Council of State have anything to share that can help change that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1610	I think the Health Director spoke out on the basis of a job he has received from the undersigned. What we have been concerned about is that employers should receive good information, good information and help to deal with the situation of unvaccinated staff in the service. I believe that health professionals should be vaccinated, but we have a voluntary line for the entire population, which I believe the Right Party has also stood for. Until recently, they ruled the department I now run. However, it is important that health professionals are then relocated, and this will naturally lead to capacity challenges in the service. This is why it is important to use the room for action that is possible – here the Labour Inspectorate’s regulations are limiting – so that we protect patients, but that we also prevent the absence of staff. Here I think increased testing of health professionals also needs to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1617	I notice that the Council of State is still using the term: health professionals ‘breeds’ are vaccinating. It may be that the Minister of Health should be clearer, because we have to expect healthcare professionals to work closely with patients to carry out vaccination. Back to what was the device in question: We will probably see a much greater pressure now in the hospitals. Both Dagens Medisin and Sykepleien have recently had a look-up saying that the situation is very demanding at UNN. Will the State Council consider using more free capacity in the private sector to ensure that patients do not have to wait unnecessarily long for treatment? Will not waiting times in general increase more than they could do if you put that capacity into use?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1624	Now, the challenges of hospitals are primarily related to staffing, not premises and capacity. We have limited health professionals, especially in bed beds and in intensive care. That is why we are taking part in the intensive work, and that is why we are also showing the direction of the supplementary letter presented by this government. It's a cautious start with a stepping-up in order to recruit specialist nurses. It is a bit tempting to remind the representative Troen that the resigned government did not achieve its own candidate targets for the number of new special caregivers a single year in its government period. This is also why it is difficult to scale up capacity in a short time. This is a long-term work. I feel that both the municipalities and hospitals now show great flexibility, relieve each other and deal with a demanding situation in a quite formidable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1635	‘Last year, 324 overdose deaths were recorded in Norway. This is the highest figure since 2001, and among the reasons is the fact that health businesses have been issuing patients for closed-ended services in municipalities during the coronary apathy. Now we are again facing a situation of increasing infection in society, and there has been a strong commitment to local measures to reduce the infection. How will the Council of State deal with drug addicts and prevent national and municipal corona interventions from leading to overdose deaths?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1642	I want to thank you for the question. I look very seriously at the high number of overdose deaths. When society closed down in March 2020, recommendations were made to municipalities and health businesses on how vulnerable and vulnerable groups should be followed up in the service. It is these recommendations that will apply if the need arises again, but I will also consider whether the recommendations need an update in the current phase of the pandemic, and also with the experience of March 2020. We will ensure that municipalities and health businesses are aware of the health authorities’ recommendation if local and national measures are implemented. It means maintaining a paper on drug use and maintaining, as far as possible, lowthreshold services for those with extensive drug problems and drug use disorders. As regards access to substitution treatment under quarantine and isolation and in other acute situations, I will refer to the temporary change in the requirment regulation on quarantine and isolation prescription, which still applies, out of 2021. The regulation allows for the prescription of a range of medicinal products which may be used in substitution treatment under the rules for trial treatment. This is to reduce the withdrawal rate in people with drug dependence who are in quarantine and isolation. There are complex reasons for the increase in druginduced deaths. The treatment of overdoses is also a long-term course. In the short term, I have already initiated some measures. Among other things, the Health Directorate will review some recommendations on drugrelated deaths and the requisition of addictive drugs and drugs. In the longer term, we will assess the evidence base in view of the measures needed to reduce druginduced deaths. In the Hurdal Platform, the government has committed itself to strengthening integrated post-crisis protection and ensuring that drug-assisted rehabilitation, LAR, provides a comprehensive and knowledge-based provision for drug addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1655	Thank you for your preliminary reply. There are some addicts who also received faster and better help through the Free Treatment Scheme, simply by employing more capacity than one had among only the public. During the previous government, the waiting time among rubblers was almost halved. My question to the Council of State is whether she expects longer waiting times again, now that there are capacity challenges and increasing infection, and whether she will also use private in this respect to reduce waiting times for this patient group.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1662	We're doing what we can to prevent the pressure on health care. That's where we measure the load of the pandemic now. We still have the same strategy as the previous government: protecting health, society, the economy – in that order, I would say. That's why it's important that we look at the whole of the load they're currently under. That was also my answer to the previous question. We do not see the number of covids in isolation – fortunately, the number of intensive patients with covids has remained stable – we look at the whole. This is how the service implements its emergency plans, where there are several measures to be taken: emergency measures, bedside measures. It also applies to those institutions which have paper space at their place of residence. So here we're trying everything we can to screen the ordinary activity. It's important in the phase we're in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1667	In the whole matter of which the Council of State is talking, however, we ended up in the situation that health care companies wrote out rubrics for closed offers in the municipalities. I understand that you want to try to protect patients, and that you don't want the coronary situation to go beyond patient groups, but that's what happened before. So I'll still try to ask the question again: Is the Council of State expecting that there might be longer waiting times because of the situation we're in now, with increasing infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1672	I'm the first to complain about the situation that very many ruspacers experienced in March 2020, where they were outsourced and lost their treatment offer. That was a different situation than the one we have today. Today we have several approved vaccines, we have a vaccinated population – of course we want to get over this magic 90 percent, so we get even better flock protection – and then we have many more tools in the toolbox to deal with pressures on services and capacity challenges. So my goal is not to increase the waiting time, to reduce the waiting time, and to use all the tools based on the knowledge and security we have through vaccines, but also through the tools developed over almost two years of pandemic, to avoid some fatal situations for patients who lose their treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1680	«During the last few weeks we have been able to read very alarming stories about eating disorders in sports, not least in long-distance sports. Both Dagbladet, VG and other media have uncovered gloomy findings about extensive eating disorders and slender press. Several of the stories are about practitioners who wipe or wear out eating disorders, slender pressure from trainers and loss of menstruation. What will the Council of State do to get rid of what the Council of State itself has said is an extremely alarming situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1687	I am pleased that the representative addresses these issues and this important issue. I share the representative's concern, and I can report that at my first meeting with the sports president and Norwegian sports association, eating disorders in sport were an important topic I raised. I will continue to be clear that this work will be a priority when we send the NIF letter of grant for 2022 in a few weeks. Almost all children and young people are involved in organised sport during their childhood. Sport is the most important community arena and for participation in the most vulnerable years of growth. When we parents send our kids to sports, we should be sure that they meet healthy environments and good values. Sport shall be good health, not a health risk. So, as the representative points out, the media has recently put the spotlight on top-notice and environments that are constantly working on better performance, and that are imposing great demands on practitioners, trainers and supporters. In such a training environment, it is important to take care of the health of practitioners. Fortunately, resources and systems for control and follow-up that were not there in the 1980s and 1990s are being deployed, and this is to be enforced by the NIF, the Olympic Summit and the special federations, and this is what we will follow up. At the same time, the few who do sports are the ones who do sports at the top sport level. Well, as worrying as what we've heard from top-notch is what's happening below the top, in those environments that don't have any professional apparatus around them at all, and those groups are more challenging now and more challenging to follow. The Sports Association has established the Sunn project sport. We know that this effort has contributed to increased knowledge, and we should contribute to strengthening that commitment, so that all parties in the organisation have knowledge of prevention and care for the health of practitioners. Then it is important to point out that a voluntary membership organisation such as NIF is, of course, should have no responsibility for operating a treatment offer. That work and competence must lie with the health service, and the Minister for Health and Welfare has also shown that there is a need to strengthen that part of the specialist health service also in the municipalities. Summary: My responsibility as Minister of Sport is to ensure that sport has a framework that enables NIF to make responsible priorities, not least priority work on healthy sport. As a sports minister, I'm also going to demand that work be prioritised, and I'm going to follow up, and I'm going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1702	Thank you for your answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State is already at the ball in dialogue with sport and the movement. As the Council of State is involved, this does not apply only to top-notch sport. This also does not apply only to long run. It's about width, but those who are primarily in danger, are maybe the ones who are up and down, who have managed to take the step up to top, or those who are betting on sport as young students, and who go to top gymnastics. We have had doctoral projects that have had good results, for example. in peak gymnastics, where 0 pst. by those involved in the projects, developed eating disorders, against 14 pst. by the others. This has not been followed up enough, according to those who have worked on this issue. Then the schools have some diet supervisors and other things, but how does the Council of State see that she can cooperate, for example. with the Ministry of Knowledge to better implement this in schools and with the clubs at the latitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1711	As the representative points out, these are complex issues. When it's about top sports, where people go from having a healthy relationship with the sport to getting sick, and you get sick of it, it's about a performance hunt over time and not being well-suited to the health of the performers around. When we talk about sport at the lower levels, which the representative brings up here, perhaps young people who want to perform, it is also that they are engaged in sports in what are the most vulnerable years of growth, the teens, for example, because many – for completely different reasons too – struggle with their own self-image, their own relationship to body and food, not least how they are told that they should really look and be trained. These are complex issues. As Minister of Sport and Culture, I am responsible for something and will, of course, take the initiative of my colleagues on how we can strengthen this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1718	I'm glad the Council of State got in the last time after the lights went off, that she's going to take initiative with her colleagues, because here I think a multidisciplinary approach is needed, both with the Ministry of Knowledge and with the Minister of Health. I also want to hear what the Council of State thinks that this is also a kind of structural problem. It's also been up in the media lately, for example. within long run, where loop profiles are more arranged for those who are small and light, and that this is something that is also exposed to younger ones, or for example. in weight class jerseys such as breakage where there are fewer weight classes for women. Could the Council of State envisage taking this up more internationally, supporting sport internationally, towards the international organisations, the Council of State towards its political colleagues, or how does the Council of State think that she can participate and help us overcome the structural problems as well? Because that doesn't help what we do just here in small Norway, even though we're a big ham nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1725	I am busy standing up for a more equal and for a healthier sport, and a lot of this is related, as the representative also points out. The Norwegian specialities are clear to the special international federations when it comes to unreasonable demands on weight or clothing, which we have also had discussions about the last six months. These are of course positions and demands I support, and these are also discussions I have with the sports president and associated with. These are good discussions, and it is important that I, as Minister of Culture and Sport, show that I am behind the sport in their struggle for the healthy values that they are to fester. So it's quite right, as the representative says, that this is about structural problems that are much wider than sport itself. It's about a big equality challenge, about the beauty pressure and the pressure that very many children and young people are constantly facing from the commercial part of the media about being thin and trained, etc. So here we have to work along many tracks.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1741	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1749	This question, from the representative of Audun Lysbakken to the Minister of Industry, will be raised by the representative Sara Bell.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1754	‘The Hurdal platform mentions ideal actors several times. The definition of what an ideal actor is is important. After decades of public sector tendering, many non-profit actors have made market adjustments to compete for contracts, in particular in terms of wages and pensions for their employees. Does the Council agree with the importance of launching work to define what a non-profit is, which, in addition to organisational requirements, will look at the pay, pension and working conditions of those working there?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1761	The Hurdal platform set the course for government work with the non-profit sector, and in the platform we underline that the government will support the non-profit sector and ideal healthcare providers, and the importance of good framework conditions and predictable operation for these ideal actors. As part of this work, the scope of the procurement legislation can be used to give priority to non-profit service providers and long-term contracts based on quality. The Government Platform further emphasises the need for cooperation with non-profit actors within a variety of welfare services. Further development of good cooperation with non-profit actors in the health and care sector is particularly important. This includes ensuring the framework conditions for non-profit institutions and non-profit institutions serving children and, in particular, continuing good cooperation with non-profit actors in the care of the elderly. The Hurdal Platform highlights the importance of safeguarding employees’ rights, so that pay and working conditions are not impaired by tendering procedures. In the further work, good and fair pay, pension and working conditions for all, including the ideals, are very important to the government. Last year, the Welfare Service Committee delivered its NOU ‘Private actors in the welfare state’ to the previous government. This report identifies regulations for publicly funded welfare services as well as cash flows and profitability of both commercial and non-profit private providers of welfare services. The report also analyses findings from the monitoring and proposes measures to contribute to the maximisation of public resources in the production of welfare. One of the proposals in the report is the creation of a national legal definition of NPISHs and the establishment of a register of NPISHs. The report provides a knowledge base and describes actions that can contribute to the welfare of the crowns we use for well-being. It is natural for us in the government to assess how these findings and advice proposed by the Committee of Experts should, and may or may not, be followed up. Ideal actors are important contributors to the welfare society. They are driven by commitment and willingness to contribute to a well-being available to all people. Cooperation between public and non-profit actors is particularly important today, with the challenges facing the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1776	Thanks for the answer – I appreciate the signals given. The representative is himself a long-standing trade union leader and is particularly concerned with the working conditions of the workers of the welfare state. So my follow-up question is: When will the Council of State decide on possible forms of definition for non-profit-making activities, so that the public can safely conclude agreements without being subject to the rules relating to tenders and competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1783	Thanks for the follow-up question. The report of the Welfare Service Committee proposed several measures for increased transparency, such as ownership, organisation and economy of welfare services. As I said, the committee proposed, inter alia: considering the establishment of a registration scheme for NPISHs, using the model of the scheme existing for NPISHs. How such a definition should be designed, if necessary, must be brought back after this government has assessed the question in more detail. We will carefully consider how best to facilitate non-profit organisations to be an important contributor to Norwegian society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1790	Question 25 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1798	‘In the Class Battle on 2 November, the Council of State tells of how a state hydrogen company can generate a profit that can be used for welfare services. The Solberg government has invested over 1.2 billion. public R & D crowns linked to hydrogen projects and Enova have large funds for the development of emission-free solutions. There's a lot of capital and a lot of big companies now investing in hydrogen. Why does the Council of State consider that the State should start commercial companies in competition with others in order to ensure profits to operate the welfare state?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1805	The Hurdal platform is very clear that this government has great ambitions for the development of the entire hydrogen market. We will help build a coherent energy chain for hydrogen where both production, distribution and not least use are developed in parallel. Furthermore, the platform says that we will set a target for the annual production of both blue and green hydrogen by 2030 and consider establishing a state hydrogen company. Let me then underline ‘assess’ to establish a state hydrogen company. As the Minister for Oil and Energy explained in the previous Questionnaire, the government is following up these ambitions in the additional proposition. The Government has therefore proposed increased means of launching an overall investigation into the possibilities of hydrogen, including the possibility of a state hydrogen company. I can't pre-shoot this work right now. We have to come back to this when the matter has been resolved and evaluated, and then we will of course return to Stortinget. Let me underline that private ownership is and will be the starting point for Norwegian business. My main task as Minister of Industry is to mobilise as much private capital as possible for the green shift. Norwegian enterprises must have good and predictable framework conditions that facilitate private investment and further growth. Norway has great prerequisites for leading the green shift, including leading to hydrogen bets. We have competitive and competent technology environments, and there are today several Norwegian companies, both with and without state ownership, which have significant initiatives and investments in progress linked to hydrogen. It applies in industry, energy and maritime industries. However, the transition to the green shift is too slow. The government is impatient, and we'll help accelerate the transition. Hydrogen projects may contribute to green conversion, value creation and large future revenues to the community. In this context, the Government wishes to assess different instruments that, as a whole, can contribute to the faster development of hydrogen, and state ownership can be considered as one of these instruments if and when appropriate. However, I would stress that state ownership should be used when this is considered to be the best instrument and that any state ownership should be assessed against other and wider instruments and framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1816	Now we see that many companies that invest in hydrogen have gone on stock exchange. We see that there are many projects around the country where investors are ready to go in with private capital. It seems that the Right is positive, and we're a little concerned that a large state-owned company with infinite capital in its back is going to be distorting competition with the other companies. The Minister of Industry has talked a lot about the hydrogen company that the government wants to establish. I hope that the Minister of Industry has caught up with some concerns in the market. There are some concerns from those who are now ready to invest and realize those projects. What is the Minister of Industry's message to these investors and companies now?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1823	The message to all private businesses is that the state should be an active partner that contributes to the success of business. But this government is also concerned with speed and action, and that we do not risk losing technological advantage and that large projects are being built abroad instead of in Norway. That's why this government doesn't have ideological skyscrapers as to what kind of instruments we use. We want to help accelerate the transition, help bring up production, but also export of blue and green hydrogen. The Minister of Oil and Energy is actively working on this. And we would like to invite business to cooperate on how we can best do this. I would also like to stress to the representative that the government has not concluded on this issue. We've been in government for four weeks. We are impatient, and we consider many instruments. Therefore, I would like to stress that we are assessing this if it may be appropriate to accelerate the transition. Where appropriate, what such a company should look like and what tasks such a company should have, we must come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1832	I am to the extent pleased with the clarifications the Minister for Industry now comes with, because the Minister for Industry has in recent days stated that one of the foremost examples of strong state ownership is the establishment of a full-time state hydrogen company. We heard the Minister of Oil and Energy a few minutes ago stand here in Stortinget and state that this is a thought of the paper for the time being – it is highly uncertain whether it will be established – and that we are now going to investigate it. I would like to say that the Minister of Oil and Energy was a little less concrete and also appears a little less ambitious and enthusiastic on behalf of this hydrogen company that the Minister of Industry seems to be very eager to establish. Has the government now got cold feet after the strong signals and feedback received from the industry and others about the establishment of such a hydrogen company?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1837	I have neither cold nor warm feet, but I can say that we would like to contribute to speeding up, and then we need to consider all the possibilities to help that happen. The signals we have received after we have written in the Hurdal platform that we will assess this company have been varied. But I also experience that more people in the hydrogen sector say it's exciting to think of an opportunity for a partnership and more targeted cooperation with the state, where ownership can be relevant. We have state-owned shared companies today that are betting on hydrogen, and we have other instruments that might be up to date. The state is still a large owner in Equinor, where it flourishes private capital around and in the company – a fantastic viable supplier industry, which shows that good cooperation between private and state can sometimes be a smart, good investment. In that debate we will keep all possibilities open, but we also intend to speed up and come back as soon as we have something to report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1851	This question is postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1859	‘Methane is a 28 times stronger greenhouse gas than CO 2. It is therefore gratifying to see that the government has now committed itself to reducing methane emissions by 30 percent by 2030. Norway has already reduced methane emissions by about 25 per cent from 1990 to 2019, much due to the grips in the waste and oil and gas sectors in recent years. Agriculture is currently the largest source of methane emissions in Norway. What will the government's commitment mean with regard to concrete measures for Norwegian agriculture, and when will they be implemented?'
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1869	I would like to thank Mr Westgaard-Halle for his question. The United States and the EU have taken the initiative to step up global efforts to reduce world methane emissions. International agreements oblige countries to cooperate to reduce methane emissions by 30 pst. from 2020 to 2030 to keep the global warming within the 1,5 degree target set in the Paris Agreement. Norway is involved in this important initiative together with over 100 other countries, but it does not oblige us to a specific national level of methane cuts, as it understands that different countries have different starting points. The target of 30 pst. decline is a common global objective. The initiative also clarifies that there is the greatest potential for cutbacks in the energy sector. Since 1990, Norway has been cutting methane emissions by over 25 pst. We have achieved this by cutting unnecessary leakages from petroleum activities and old waste heaps. Methane emissions from agriculture have been reduced by more than 6 pst over the same period. As a result, we have a lot of experience in Norway in reducing methane emissions. Our participation in this initiative is primarily to transfer experience on how we have succeeded. In addition, we will work to cut methane emissions further, especially emissions from fossil sources. We are already participating in international efforts to reduce methane emissions through participation in the Climate and Clean Air Coalition and Arctic Councils. The representative of Westgaard-Halle questions what the government's commitment will mean with regard to concrete measures for Norwegian agriculture. As the representative is well aware, a mutual commitment agreement has been reached between the country and agricultural organisations on climate change and uptake. The aim of the agreement is to reduce total agricultural emissions by a total of 5 million tonnes of CO 2 equivalent over the next 10 years. The climate agreement is the basis for the work on climate change in agriculture also for this government. Methane emissions from livestock account for about half of the total emissions in the agricultural sector. The downward trend in methane emissions from the sector must continue. This must mainly be done by reducing emissions per unit of output. Exciting research is also ongoing in this area, in particular in the fields of breeding and feeding. We are also concerned with reducing food waste and helping food production to adapt to changing patterns of consumption over time. All sectors must contribute to achieving the climate objectives. As far as this international initiative is concerned, we should first of all contribute our own experiences and competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1885	That was clarifying. This means that the US and EU initiative on a strengthened global effort to reduce world methane emissions – which Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Støre quite smiled in the advertising of climate negotiations in Glasgow, together with US President Joe Biden and a number of other Heads of State – really boils down to the fact that we should not do anything. We say it's really nice that everyone else takes this initiative, but there's no plan to do anything in the sector that emits the most methane in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1890	Of course, Norway should contribute, and Norway also contributes a great deal in terms of feeding — knowledge dissemination there — and also in terms of breeding. This is a total measure of 30 pst. for the 100 countries. Norway has come a long way in this area. I would also like to highlight the agreement – agriculture is, in fact, the only industry in Norway that has committed itself to a climate agreement with the State – that was made under the previous government. We are going to fill it with positive measures that help to provide agriculture with the means it needs to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1895	What I hear now is that the government has really not intended to do anything beyond what the previous government did, and what agriculture is doing itself. Agriculture is much more offensive and much more aggressive on the ball than the Council of State is saying, in terms of both the reduction of food losses, the efficiency of agriculture, better quality of grass harvested – that is, the quality of roughage – research on feed additives, which was part of the previous government, animal health, breeding, biogas and drainage. All this has been started and already done by the industry itself. But then the government doesn't intend to do anything more than what's already done?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1900	Of course, this government will follow up the climate agreement with agriculture. In contrast to the previous government, we actually intend to contribute to agriculture getting the means they need, the resources they need to implement the climate measures they are going to implement. There is a change of course – to put it that way – in Norwegian agricultural policy. In four weeks we've delivered 1 billion. additional to Norwegian agriculture in relation to the previous government. There is a price change in Norwegian agricultural policy, and I am sure that agriculture will also take part in the emission cuts to be made. There is a lot of good happening in agriculture. Now this government is very busy filling the toolbox with tools, because it was totally absent from the work of the previous government. An agreement was concluded without providing agriculture with any resources to implement measures. It's what this government intends to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1905	Then we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1913	This question, from Tage Pettersen to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Justice and Security who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1918	‘How can the Council of State defend the reversal of the judicial reform, when the Children’s Ombudsman believes it would weaken the legal certainty of children?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1923	Children's legal certainty is very important to the government, and that's something we want to do in our efforts to go back to the previous structure. It is the government's view that reintroducing the judicial structure as it was before the structural reform will not weaken children's legal certainty. Legal certainty for children is a matter of several aspects, including: that the courts have good competence in matters relating to children. I agree with the Children’s Ombudsman that it is unfortunate that there is only one judge and one judge. In line with the Hurdal platform, we want to strengthen the courts to make them less vulnerable. The government therefore proposes, in the additionalproposal to the State budget for 2022, to increase the proposed allocation by 20 million. to employ several judges in courts where there are few officials today. The measure will reduce the proportion of judges and the vulnerability of smaller courts. I believe that the individual judge already has a high level of competence in child cases as a result of child cases being a large part of the court's case portfolio, and that also applies in the smaller courts, or now courts. In 2020 it was approx. 20 pst. of all disputes before the courts relating to children's matters. So these are cases that judges have a lot of experience dealing with. In addition, the legislation opens up the possibility of appointing co-judges with competence for children or an external expert who can shed light on child-care and interpersonal issues. The Courts are therefore well placed to ensure the legal certainty of children. Having a local court is also part of legal certainty. I am concerned that smaller courts will be built down over time if the courts do not have local authority. For children it is burdensome to be involved in a case before the courts initially, and increased travel time to the courts may impose additional burdens on the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1934	The fact that the Central Party is suffering from a reversing agenda is nothing new, but there are more parties in this government, and the government should listen to the professionals. Although the Council of State has found some quotations from the Children’s Ombudsman that she can draw out, it is clear that turning the judicial reform will weaken legal certainty for children, and the Children’s Ombudsman believes that a reversal will contribute to this. It is a serious feedback that the government should take seriously. I find it hard to see who would be better able to care for this than a previous judge who is now the agent to care for the children's best interests. The question remains: to what extent does the Council of State think that other considerations can outweigh the concern of the children in these matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1939	The government is very concerned about children and the legal certainty of children. We're also going to be when we're going to work on taking back the previous structure of the courts. It's about securing local management and anchoring in the courts where there's a local desire to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1944	The Children’s Ombudsman is not only to warn against this reversal. Both the Supreme Court, the Legislature of Law – The Judiciary Association, the Court Administration and the country’s first-legislators and many Zorenists are in favour of today’s organisation of the District Courts, and the government’s reversal is in many ways a change that no one other than the government itself wants. After all, the reform of the Court of Justice provides good results. Not only strengthens that legal certainty, but to quote the soren writer in Agder District Court, Robert Versland, it is also the most district-friendly reform in Norway's history. That's something the Center Party should listen to. No premises are closed, no employees have moved on, and no judges or other employees have lost their jobs. No one has a worse time than a child in a difficult family situation. Are state councils more concerned with districts than with children's legal certainty? And if she is not, how can she defend the reversal of the reform in this context?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1951	I'm very concerned about children and the legal certainty of children, and it's true whether the children live in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim or one of our municipalities in the districts. I'm going to be concerned about that when we're going to work on taking back the previous structure of the courts. We will listen to everyone who is affected by this. We will come back to how we will proceed in the further process, and then both the courts and the public will be informed of how this will be done. For us, it is important to listen to local authorities, local trustees and local sorenists as well as the professional environments that have now spoken out. This is a matter in which there are many opinions. These are shared opinions, and they are also found within a union.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1958	We're going to go to question 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1966	‘After the autumn shooting episodes in Oslo, police officer Beate Gangås tells Avisa Oslo that she would rather want dedicated, good police officers than more premises. Why does the State Council open up several police offices/posts in Oslo when the Oslo police themselves do not want this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1973	In order to ensure better prevention of crime and faster response to serious incidents, local police should be strengthened. The government has therefore proposed, in proposals for amendments to the Solberg budget of the government, to strengthen the police by 200 million. to improve local presence, increase staffing and strengthen crime prevention. I've had meetings with both the police officer in Oslo and town councillor Raymond Johansen. They have both given me valuable insight into the challenges in Oslo, and I have a very good idea of the cooperation between the municipality and the police. It is the overall effort that is important in combating this type of crime, not just the police's efforts. I agree that a police force that is close to people builds security. It gives the police the necessary knowledge of what's going on locally. Police can reach our young people early, and they can prevent recruitment to crime. It has also underlined both the police chief and the town council leader. We have said that the government will set up 20 new police stations, and the work starts in 2022. They may be set up where there is a local desire, or where geographical factors or the image of crime so warrant. I've told you that we should listen to local authorities and police throughout the country. Oslo is also a municipality. I would also listen to Oslo if there were local wishes for more presence in the form of police posts, in line with the rest of the country. I'm taking the tapes from the police chief and the mayor, and it's too early to conclude now. We will take the time to do a thorough job and involve stakeholders and have good dialogue with the municipality and the police all over the country before we conclude on something that will mean Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1986	Great, and thank you for a supplementary answer. I'm glad that the council has been out and met all sorts of people, and I hope that she will also take along what they say. I just want to stress again: the Council of State did not really quite answer why she said that one would have more police posts. Having more police posts in Oslo was also a theme for the Central Party in the election campaign. But I myself have been in contact with policemen and connected people, who say they want police officers rather than police offices. I would like to ask you something else. The 200 million. kr to the police come along well, but is part of the money intended to build police offices around the country, or are they going to the police? How much of this is intended for Oslo to meet the violence that we have in Oslo today? Can the Minister of Justice and Security explain how these 200 million people are. kr in the additional number to be allocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e1995	We have to get back to the very concrete distribution, but our starting point is that this is going to release police resources, which are going to show up in the form of more police around the country, including in Oslo, where there is a need for more local presence. That's where I want to, for example. look at police posts that have been built under the right government, and look at where police people have been lost, and where there may be a need for it, or where the crime scene suggests that you need a reinforcement, as we have seen in Oslo. So it's important to me that we can have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Saying that we're going to have 20 new positions because it's been a long way to the police a lot of places in the country, it's not a contradiction to believe that it's important that we have more policemen who can be out in everyday life, talk to people and prevent crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e2002	But what I've tried to find out through several questions is what's most important. Are those the police offices or the police? I hear some sort of movement on the part of the Minister of Justice that one agrees that what actually matters is more police in the streets. But the Minister of Justice can't tell us how much of the 200 million. the crowns that will go to combat violent crime in Oslo. Can we expect an answer before the budget is adopted, in one month's time, or is the Minister of Justice going to spend a whole of 2022 deciding how to distribute this money?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e2009	We will come back to this – how to distribute the money – in our dialogue with the Police Directorate and the police districts. If the Right wants to spend less money on the police, they have to discuss it in Stortinget. I'm very happy that we've been given 200 million priority. kr more than the Right did, to just hire more policemen. It may also be relevant to employ someone in civil positions – we know that today there are police officers in offices and do civilian tasks, in the absence of civil positions that can do so – if it allows you to free police resources to be out among people. So this is an important start to a long-term effort to turn the resources of the police from bureaucracy and, to a large extent, central functions and out to people's everyday lives – to prevention, presence, investigation, good intelligence and a good close-up police force, which the government is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e2025	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-11-10.ana.ud71e2038	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
