ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e84	For the sake of infection prevention, the President proposes that the public gallery be kept closed also during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Council this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e101	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e119	The President then gives the floor to Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e124	Thank you for the opportunity to explain to the Stortinget about the government's follow-up to the Corona Commission report. The assessment of the Corona Commission is that overall good management of the covid-19 pandemic has been achieved by the authorities. The Commission points out that, in a difficult situation for the country, the authorities have changed rapidly and taken decisions that have been crucial for the evolution of the crisis. After more than a year of pandemic, Norway is among the countries in Europe with the lowest mortality rates, which are least economically affected. I want to add that we have also had less invasive domestic measures than many other countries. We also have a health service that has managed to maintain most of its normal activity. The Coronapandemic has faced Norwegian society and government with the greatest challenge since World War II. In particular, we had to make decisions under considerable uncertainty and without a certain knowledge of the effectiveness of the measures. That's why we also said we were going to make mistakes. It has been important to make decisions and to correct them along the way, not to make decisions until it was too late. We have learned along the way, and we have corrected the course when necessary. The Commission points out that we were too poorly prepared. We're going to use the report to learn. That's why the government took the initiative to shut down the Corona Commission. The Commission has 17 main messages and 63 learning points and recommendations. Today I'm going to focus on the most important of these. We have asked the Corona Commission to continue its work. For the time being, the Commission has evaluated the preparedness and handling of the first part of the pandemic. When the pandemic is over, we will go thoroughly through organisation, contingency plans and legislation. Based on this and the Commission's final report, the government will send a message to the Stortinget. We are still in a pandemic, and we will not change the framework for crisis management in the midst of a crisis. Nevertheless, we see that it is part of the Commission's point, which we have already implemented, or can implement quickly. I'll come back to this. The Commission’s assessment refers to the overall good overall performance of the management of the pandemic by the authorities. At the same time, it concludes that there is potential for improvement in a number of areas. I want to go on through some of the themes that the Commission is drawing on. The Commission points out that Norway was not well prepared when the covid-19 pandemic came, that the authorities had not created scenarios or carried out exercises that allowed for the closure of large sections of society. I agree that in the preparedness work, we have too little challenged agreed truths about how pandemics should be handled in Norway. The responsibilities and interactions of establishments in crisis are generally described in the national health emergency plan. It was last updated by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2018. The national contingency plan for outbreaks of serious communicable diseases was adopted in 2019. This is a general plan against different types of infection, not just one type of virus. The plan was drawn up in the light of the experience gained in the management of the ebola outbreak in West Africa in 2014 and the work on the national CBRNE strategy. The preparedness committee for biological events was also set up in 2019. The aim of the sample is to bring decision-makers from different sectors together and to strengthen the coordination of preparation and response to biological events. Influenza pandemic was assumed to be the most likely scenario. Norway was therefore prepared for the occurrence of an influenza pandemic and the authorities had both systems and national plans to do so through a specific plan: national contingency plan for pandemic influenza. This plan makes it visible that a large proportion of the population may become ill, which in turn will lead to a high level of sick leave and many hospitalisations. This is planned for in all sectors, but the analyses of what a high level of sick leave and high morbidity will mean for society as a whole have not been good enough. It also does not include viruses with characteristics other than influenza viruses. The plan is initially not recommended to introduce measures to limit activity in the whole or part of the population as the costs may be very high and the benefits may be limited. The plan also does not recommend the closure of borders and the introduction of quarantine of suspected infected or mass examinations of travellers. Instead, infectious measures were to be used to slow down the infection and flatten the curve, so that not too many became ill at the same time. For the corona virus, the government saw early that a so-called brake strategy would be difficult to implement. The infection comes too easily out of control, and the burden on health and care services becomes too heavy. So Norway had a plan and was prepared for an influenza pandemic, but not for a pandemic that required extensive social closure. This weakness in planning and scenarios is also found in other Western countries. For example, the World Health Organisation: its plank is exclusively related to influenza viruses because it was believed to be the most likely virus. Under the direction of the World Health Organisation, the world has for a longer time, including: by adopting the International Health Regulations, the work to avoid border closures and the maintenance of the economy, trade and movement across national borders in the event of outbreaks of infectious diseases. What we've been doing for over a year now represents a paradigm shift. We have used infectious measures to an extent and over as long as few had imagined were possible or planned for. The pandemic management has challenged the truth of what is possible in response to a pandemic. This is also clear to the Commission. It assumes that no Western country had seen for itself to handle a pandemic in this way. The Commission concludes that the government in the preparedness process has not taken into account how risks in one sector depend on risks in other sectors. On the one hand, the Commission bases its criticism on the DSB’s assessment that pandemic was the most likely incident, among the scenarios they have developed. DSB describes a pandemic which the authorities were better prepared to meet: a flu pandemic. The scenario describes an influenza pandemic that spreads rapidly and reaches the peak after six weeks. After four months, the pandemic is over. The Commission also considers that the scenarios have been deficient because the DSB has not wide enough to assess the impact on society. The Commission considers that, in view of the DSB scenario, there should be a more thorough analysis of the impact of the impact on each other in different areas of society and society as a whole. A pandemic exercise could have revealed some of the deficiencies in the plan that the Commission is addressing. At the same time, there's reason to ask questions about whether we would practice on a pandemic that required long-term closure of society, given that we've been through a paradigm shift in the last year, as the Commission describes it. Scenarios can be developed in several ways and it is important to find a reasonable level of detail. If scenarios are made too detailed, there is a risk of spending a lot of resources planning very detailed for a crisis that will often not be the same as the one actually taking place. The level of detail of the crisis scenarios and the role they can and should play in the preparedness process is an important discussion. The Ministry of Justice and Defence now assesses whether the DSB crisis scenarios should be further developed. The assessments of the Corona Commission will be important input into this work. One important lesson is that we can't just draw out the scenarios we think are most likely. We also have to plan for what seems less likely. I would nevertheless stress that it will never be possible to plan for any event in advance. It is illustrative that the main decisions taken by the government, which have largely contributed to the improvement of the results in Norway than in most countries, were contrary to or not anchored in the current plan. Good crisis management is about dealing with the unknown, showing action and dryness to make mistakes. At the same time, it is about having a good basic preparedness in place. Basic preparedness is built through systematic learning after exercises and events, through a crisis management system and through concrete tools that can be used in crisis management. The fact that we have previously identified societal functions that are critical to ensuring social security in Norway is one example. We are prepared for major events to occur, and we have a well-developed crisis management system, which is known and practiced in administration. This has been important for the government’s management of the pandemic. The pandemic has clearly shown the potential for a cross-sectoral crisis and the impact in one sector on another. Assessing cross-sectoral impacts is important both in building preparedness and in managing events. All departments shall coordinate their own work on prevention, preparedness and crisis management with the departments concerned. In addition, through its coordination role, the Ministry of Justice and Security shall ensure that cross-sectoral issues are addressed. This way of working across sectors is therefore known to the departments. For example, the monitoring of dependence in other sectors is a central element of work in progress after the entry into force of the new safety law. During the pandemic, the government has continuously worked to get an overview of the overall impact. All departments have reported on the impact of measures taken and possible. Cross-sectoral impacts have been key here, for example: the impact of closed schools and kindergartens on access to competent personnel and the economy, the impact of quarantine provisions on healthcare capacity and the impact of infectious diseases on vulnerable children and young people. In addition, we have had a good overview of our ability to maintain continuity in the critical societal functions previously defined. My assessment is that at the time of the crisis, coordination worked. The decisions were lifted to the government. Alleged considerations were sought. The government will use both the experience from the pandemic and the Commission’s assessments to assess whether requirements and responsibilities for cross-sectoral impact assessments should be clarified in the plan. The Government will also assess the need for cross-sectoral cooperation mechanisms at a level of etat to strengthen the coordination of prevention, preparedness and management of all types of events and crises. As mentioned, such a mechanism was established in the health field in 2019. The Commission points out that in the context of the 2003 sars epidemic and the Ebola epidemic in 2014, the risk of lack of infectious disease control equipment was described. Norway could and should therefore have had larger stocks of infectious disease control equipment than we had at the entrance to the coronary apathy. I agree. This is a weakness in preparedness that the government has learned from. At the same time, I am pleased that the Commission recognises the job that was done to ensure that we got enough infection protection equipment into Norway. In March 2020, a common purchasing system was established to ensure rapid protection of local authorities and hospital facilities for the protection of infectious diseases. It was worked 24 hours a day to get enough equipment, and it showed great action and creativity. The system put in place by the Health Directorate, Health South-East and Hospital Purchases worked well, and the expenditure for the purchases was covered by the State. In addition to 2020, the delivery situation of infectious equipment was more normalised. The Commission considers that there was too much emphasis on specialist health services and too little emphasis on municipalities when deciding how to distribute the equipment. We'll take note of that. At the same time, it is important to remember that systems were set up to capture needs in municipalities. The lack of equipment municipalities were invited to report on the need for the national scheme. The county councillors coordinated and distributed between municipalities according to the stocks of individual municipalities, the number of infections and the burden. There were also different distributions of different types of infection protection equipment, reflecting different use of equipment in municipalities and specialist health services. The real distribution could therefore differ from that resulting from the overall distribution key. While the pandemic is in progress, we have built up a significant national preparedness stock that is added to the stocks of municipalities and health businesses. For example, we now have in stock breathing protection equivalent to over 400 years with the normal consumption estimated by the Health Directorate. For eye protection, we're going to have enough for over 2,000 years of normal consumption. The Health Directorate is now investigating the permanent organisation of this stock, together with other measures to enhance the security of the supply of infectious diseases equipment. An important question in the work is how this stock is to interact with municipal and hospital stocks. Cooperation with other sectors, including: on procurement, national production and production contracts are part of the investigation. The Government intends to propose the organisation of a permanent system for the storage and emergency protection of infectious diseases equipment in the State budget for 2022. Through the crisis, we have secured access to the medicines we need. The Commission considers that the review of drug preparedness from 2019 has contributed to the rapid implementation of the necessary measures to ensure supply. The good preparedness and good control of the pandemic in Norway have enabled us to also assist Sweden with critical medicines for their intensive treatment. Since May 2020, the government has also built up comprehensive emergency stocks of critical medicinal products. The government will come back with proposals for the permanent arrangement. Norway will never be self-sufficient in medicinal products or medical-technical equipment. The overall European preparedness is therefore an important element in the discussion on how the further preparedness should be. The Commission highlights the importance of strengthening cooperation in Europe and the Nordic region. This is in line with the government's ambitions. Norway has been a driver of Nordic and European cooperation in the field of medicinal products throughout the crisis. The European Commission has proposed the creation of a new Health Protection Agency, which is to a large extent responsible for aspects related to the development and production of medicinal products in crisis situations and in restricted access situations. It will be important for our national preparedness that Norway is connected to this work. The Commission points out that there was a significant reduction in treatment activity in hospitals following the closure in March last year. With increasing infection rates and considerable uncertainty, it was necessary to reduce the planned activity so that hospitals could introduce new infectious practices and be prepared to handle a larger number of patients. For some hospitals, this required greater changes than for others. We note that the Commission points out that the reduction in planned activity and re-establishment of a more normal level of activity was not well coordinated enough and that a national planning basis may be appropriate to avoid unnecessary reductions in treatment capacity. This is something we take with us. At the same time, I would like to stress that the government placed great emphasis on protecting emergency services, the offer to cancer patients, children and drug users/psychiatry, which also worked well. In mental health protection for children and young people and in drug treatment, waiting times declined slightly from 2019 to 2020. The Commission has received feedback from the hospitals that the lack of qualified personnel is the main factor of scarcity in order to be able to increase intensive capacity. I agree. In order to meet short-term needs, this includes, inter alia: establish a national internal training programme for nurses in intensive care of covid-19 patients. In order to meet longer-term needs, we will address the future and overall need for intensive capacity in hospitals. But there is no doubt that it should be strengthened. We have already asked regional health companies to train more intensive nurses. At least 100 new training positions shall be created in intensive care and the work of recruiting, developing and maintaining intensive nurses in hospitals shall be strengthened. It is a pleasure to read that the Commission believes that the interaction between the specialist health service and the municipalities has worked well. Interaction in the newly established health communities has accelerated. It is also positive that the use of video and telephone consultations has increased considerably. This is a desired development. In order to ensure that this use will continue, the Government has set a target that the proportion of outpatient consultations conducted over video and telephone should be at least 15 pst. this year. The Commission has made a very thorough contribution to the process leading up to the measures on 12 March. It considers that the decision was correct and shares the government’s analysis that the economic impact would have increased if the intervention measures had been introduced later. I'm glad. At the same time, the Commission points out that the measures put in place should have been better investigated and that the time pressure was greater than it would have to be. It is true that the time pressure became great. In the days before March 12, the infection spread much faster than expected. It is important to point out that the measures that were necessary to introduce represented a professional and preparedness paradigm shift. We've been used to countries in Asia dealing with infectious diseases differently than we do in the West. We saw this time that our Western approach was inadequate, but the countries ahead of us were not many days ahead. Time was running out. The Commission also points out that the decision to introduce the measures should have been taken by the government, and points out that Section 28 of the Constitution states that matters of importance are decided in the Council of State. The focus on 12 March was to have the decisions taken quickly, get control of the situation and avoid further spread of the virus. It was the Health Directorate who took the specific decision. The reason for this is that the Stortinget has provided the Health Directorate with extensive powers to take decisions to protect the population against infectious diseases. The protective measures provided for in this Directive entered into force as early as January 2020 by defining the corona virus as a disease of general concern. Until 12 March, the pandemic was primarily managed in the health trail and after the role distribution resulting from the plan. Such a situation was until 12 March, it was natural for the Health Directorate to take the decision. However, I would like to stress that although the decision to introduce the intervention measures was formally taken by the Health Directorate, the decision was taken in consultation with the government. However, I agree that the decision should have been taken by the government of the Council of State, as the Commission points out. The measures introduced led to the transition from a health crisis to a crisis with consequences for all parts of society. The government took both the formal and the real responsibility to deal with the crisis after 12 March. Already on 13 March, regulations on the quarantine and isolation of persons coming to Norway from abroad were adopted by the Council of State. On 13 March, the Ministry of Justice and Defence took over as head of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In the extraordinary Council of State on 15 March 2020, the Government adopted a new regulation on quarantine, isolation and authorisation for the prohibition of residence in recreational dwellings. The Commission points out that, at the beginning of the pandemic, the authorities did not satisfy themselves that the measures for the protection of human rights and fundamental rights were in line with the Basic Law. This is a problem that the government early recognized and did something about. Assessments of the measures against the Constitution, human rights and the European Convention on Human Rights are now being documented and published together with the publication of the basis for decisions on action. In the event of a serious outbreak of a public-risk transmissible disease, the Code of Infections and Infectious Diseases referred to above confers on both the municipalities and the Directorate of Health the right to take effective measures for the protection of infectious diseases. The law requires the measures to be proportionate, i.e. reasonable, assessed on the basis of the situation. I agree with the Commission that these powers are essential for a rapid response to dealing with infectious diseases. The aim of the law is to protect society and prevent infection. The law does not lay down rules of its own for the democratic control of decisions, and I agree that this needs to be assessed in more detail. All of the law's powers have been triggered in connection with the pandemic, and we have had completely new experience with the law. I therefore agree that the IPD must be subject to a comprehensive audit and that the Stortinget should be invited to take a new decision on involvement, processes and roles. The government will initiate such a process and come back to Storing. The Commission considers that consultations have not been sufficiently conducted when measures for the protection of infection have been adopted. I agree with the Commission that consultation of legislative proposals and regulations is an important democratic instrument, even in times of crisis. Many important proposals have been consulted, but often with a short consultation period in order to take account of the need for rapid regulation. In a good number of cases, the need for immediate regulation to prevent the spread of infection has led to the absence of consultations. Regulations dealing with the introduction or modification of disease protection measures have not been sent to the hearing in particular, whereas the regulations under the Korona Act were essentially at a brief hearing. Most legislative proposals have been put to the consultation. However, for the Korona Act, this was not possible as we assessed the situation in mid-March 2020, but it was a direct dialogue with the Stortinget and with other stakeholders before the government proposal was promoted. However, the public investigation on which the Korona Act was based was being consulted. Despite the lack of hearings and short deadlines, it has been possible to record the work. The recommendations of the competent authorities have been published. Enquiries from individuals, businesses and organisations about how the rules work and should work are taken into account when assessing changes. This societal debate has helped to ensure the best possible regulatory framework for dealing with the disease. I see the need to think again about how measures and legislation should be investigated in crises that last over time. It may include the evaluation of subsequent consultations on selected themes, sample investigative missions and the formalisation of the possibility to provide views on regulatory design on a continuous basis. The Government therefore shares the Commission’s view that a clearer framework should be established for the implementation of faster legislative and regulatory processes during a crisis, without jeopardising fundamental democratic interests and legal certainty. Throughout the pandemic, the government has stressed that the Storting should be informed about the government’s work on crisis management. Initially, there were frequent meetings between the government and the Storing Korona Committee. This is also the ninth statement on the government's management of the pandemic as either the Minister of Health or I hold the Storting. In the report, the Commission agrees with the government's choice of strategy. We chose to kill the infection last March. It gave us control of the situation. However, it is limited how long such a strategy can be maintained. The strategy, as pointed out by the Commission, must be assessed in the light of the prospects for vaccination and immunity, the development of the virus, its treatment options and its impact on society. The reason why we've been able to hold on to the strategy is that early on it became clear that it could get vaccine pretty quickly. The Commission’s assessment is that it was right to gradually open up through spring last year. By doing that gradually, we maintained control. In line with the strategy, facilitating kindergartens, schools and universities was one of the first priorities. I note that the Commission agrees with this priority. The Commission points out that the reopening was to some extent influenced by government pressure from some stakeholder organisations, such as Norwegian Industry and Norwegian Football Associations. Throughout the crisis, the government has been in close contact with various actors, such as professional organisations, employment organisations and enterprises. Such contact has been necessary to ensure good handling and to form a holistic picture, and to correct the course when necessary or to introduce exceptional arrangements in order to avoid excessive outbreaks of infection protection measures. In some cases, we have agreed on the recordings we have received and made changes. In other cases, and probably most of them, we haven't complied with the wishes for exceptions and reliefs. The level of action has changed up and down through the pandemic, both locally and nationally. However, with control of the spread of infection, we have consistently had less invasive domestic measures than we have seen in many other countries. At the same time, our entry rules have been among the most stringent in Europe. We already adopted strict restrictions on the right of foreigners to enter Norway on 15 March last year. Early in the summer we gradually opened up on the entry measures. We were at that time one of the last countries in Europe to open up. Derogations from the quarantine requirement for journeys from low spread regions of the Nordic region were introduced from 15 June. As from 15 July, the derogation also applied to other low spread EEA countries. The disease situation was assessed weekly. The criteria used were based on advice from the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. The Commission considers that the government lacked a plan to deal with imports when a new wave of infection arrived in Europe in the autumn of 2020. The disease situation was favourable both in Norway and in most European countries when we opened up. The situation gradually got worse from late summer. For people from regions of the Nordic countries and countries of Europe where there was no low spread of infection, quarantine was required at all times. We had at this point a system in place, where quarantine came into force for travellers from countries where the infection came over given thresholds. In retrospect, we have to admit that the quarantine obligation was too long for trust. In particular, the Commission points to the system that enabled travellers to start working after a negative test. My assessment is that the entry system as a whole was too trust-based in the face of increased infection in Europe over the autumn. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the Code of Disease Protection lays down a fundamental requirement for the voluntary involvement of the measure(s) in the implementation of disease protection measures. It was therefore natural to test trust-based measures before more stringent measures were applied. New virus variants that facilitate and lead to more serious disease increased the need for measures at the border around the turn of the year. There are now requirements for negative testing, border testing, quarantine hotels and strong restrictions for work travellers to Norway. The strong grips we have taken have contributed to the fall in the proportion of those infected abroad and are now at a very low level. The Commission points out that it is a strength that municipalities have a high responsibility for infectious diseases in Norway. The municipalities are responsible for implementing the TISK strategy and thus have a key role to play in controlling the pandemic. Many municipalities believe that information on changes in infectious control measures and new expectations for municipalities should reach them sooner and before the information is made public. I understand that. Pandemic management is demanding. Decisions need to be taken quickly in many contexts. It makes changes come quickly. If we were to inform the municipalities first, it would take longer for the rest of the population and other actors to be informed. In this balance, we have come to make decisions available to everyone at the same time, and as quickly as possible. But we work all the time to improve the information and flow of information to the municipalities. In the past, we have e.g. has chosen to spend a little longer time between the communication of changes in measures and their entry into force. The aim is, inter alia, to: have been able to give municipalities better time to adapt to the changes. In the first phase of the pandemic, less attention was paid to municipal measures because we largely took action nationally. When we had the virus shut down, we could bet on more differentiated measures and on shutting down local outbreaks locally. At this stage, municipalities have been closely followed up by, among other things, the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate. My assessment is that coordination has gradually improved. The framework has also become clearer. In early last autumn, a circular was issued to provide the municipalities with guidance on the possible local measures, the design of measures and the considerations to be assessed by law. Since then, we have put in place the system of clear, defined steps for regional action that the government can put in place. These are regulated in the covid-19 regulation, where level A has the strictest measures, while level C has the least stringent measures. This has helped to simplify the population and speed up the decision-making process by increasing infection. We have also established a system in which municipalities and other actors who need to do so are subject to regulatory changes at the same time as these are sent Law Data for publication. Governments also play an important role in informing and advising municipalities. In addition, they bring important information on the conditions in the municipalities back to central authorities. State administrators will now review weekly risk assessments of the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute together with the municipalities. The Commission is in favour of the government’s ability to deal quickly and effectively with cases. At the same time, they ask the question of too many cases has been raised to an too high level. Initially, I am in favour of matters being dealt with at the lowest possible level. But during the pandemic it has been necessary to treat a lot in the government. There is a need to see the whole, and to balance different considerations. This is a political responsibility. During the pandemic, there has also often been a need to quickly cut through and make decisions. The need for policy treatment in many cases has given the division of labour between the Ministry of Health and Health a different character to that common in dealing with health and care crises. The Health Directorate has been responsible for developing decision-making bases and proposals for government action based on input, in particular from the Public Health Institute, but also from health enterprises, municipalities and state administrators. The Ministry has carried out an overall assessment, which has again been used as a basis for the government’s treatment. The main impression of the Commission is that much of the cooperation between state actors in the healthcare sector has been good and flexible. But I have noticed the Commission's statement that too much detail management can increase the risk that creating space for holistic and strategic assessments can be challenging. I believe that we have managed to balance these considerations by establishing a clear strategy early in the crisis management process, which we have continuously assessed, but at the same time maintained. The Commission also points out that there has been extensive and good cooperation between the Directorate for Health and the Institute for Public Health. Both of these organisations have been under enormous pressure throughout the pandemic. This is the first time they've had to test their cooperation and roles in such a comprehensive way over a long period of time. It's natural that it took some time to figure out where the interface is going. When the pandemic is over, the Ministry of Health and Welfare will review and evaluate the interaction between actors in the sector and the need to make changes to laws and regulations, contingency plans and organisation. The Commission concludes that overall good management of the pandemic has been achieved. I'm glad. It points out that we have changed quickly and made decisions that have been crucial to the evolution of the crisis. After a year of pandemic, Norway is among the least-dead countries in Europe and least economically affected. We have a lot to thank for. We couldn't have succeeded if the population hadn't stopped taking the measures. In Norway, we have confidence in each other. It makes us well equipped to face crises. We've been trying to communicate openly about the assessments we've made and published the professional advice we've been given. I am pleased that the Commission believes that our communication has contributed to creating confidence. We haven't reached everyone as well. The Commission points out that we have not succeeded in reaching the immigrant population as a whole. We had early own actions aimed at the immigrant population and have gradually developed this work as we have gained experience and gained more knowledge. We've learned a lot about communication and different ways of reaching different groups in society. It's initiated a cross-ministerial work to ensure that we take this lesson with us, so that in the next crisis we have better readiness to reach out quickly with information to the entire population, including all parts of the immigrant population. Although we've managed to keep society more open than many other countries, the pandemic has had its price. As the Commission says, everyone is affected by the pandemic, but it's been skewed. The government has been concerned that there is a proportionality between the infection situation and the measures taken. As far as possible, we have sought to impose compensatory measures where this has been possible. Nor should we forget that the alternative to action would not be more normal everyday life. From other countries, we have seen that if the infection first comes out of control, drastic measures are needed to recover control. What becomes the long-term consequences of the pandemic is that, what the Commission is about, too early to conclude. The long-term consequences will also be affected by the political choices we have made and will make in the future. The government's goal is that no one should be left alone with their challenges caused by the pandemic. We've been in this together. Our goal means that we too should get out of the crisis. Some will be left with consequences longer than others. Someone wants to hang out at school. Some children have been subjected to domestic violence. Some people want mental health challenges. Some people will have health problems after undergoing disease. Others want trouble getting a job. In my presentation to the Stortinget on 7 April, I went through the government's plans that no one should be left alone with their challenges after the pandemic, and to ensure that the long-term effects of covid-19 are minimised if possible. In the forthcoming revision of the national budget, the government will further strengthen these efforts, including: by promoting new measures to improve the situation of vulnerable children and young people. We will also continue to work to ensure that those who have lost training can receive the necessary support. We will also implement measures against drop-outs and delays for students. In the revised national budget, we will also follow up the report of the expert group on the consequences of the pandemic on mental health and drug use. We also need more knowledge about the long-term effects of the ongoing pandemic. We'll get that knowledge through more research. The government will therefore also propose funds for this in the revised national budget. I would like to thank the Corona Commission for good and thorough work. It has delivered 17 main messages and 63 learning points and recommendations. The government will use the report for further management of the pandemic and not least to prepare us for future crises. That provides a good basis for the report. The Government will also send the Commission’s report at the hearing. But we're still in the middle of a crisis. We still have about 200 people in Norwegian hospitals with covid-19. Last week almost 3,000 new infections were registered. This spring we've got a virus that's more contagious, and we see from other countries that the infection can shoot fast. At the same time, more and more people have been vaccinated. There are now almost 1.2 million Nordics who have received at least one dose. On this basis, the government has asked the Commission to continue its work and deliver a final report. Managing the crisis will continue to have priority. In that work, the Commission's contribution will also be useful. Some of the Commission’s recommendations are large and comprehensive. We'll have to catch them when the pandemic's over. The government, as mentioned above, will provide a forecast message once the Commission has delivered its final report. Here, too, the government will come up with its own assessments and follow-up proposals to ensure that Norway is better equipped to meet pandemics in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e398	According to Storting’s Rules of Procedure § 45, the President will now open a short comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a final statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e403	The Korona crisis has had a major impact on human life and health in Norway and the world, and we are not in this crisis. Nevertheless, it is important to learn. How well were we prepared for a long-term epidemic/pandemic? How well have we dealt with the crisis when it first occurred? Those questions are profoundly about people's lives, about some of the shut-down that has hit people, could and should be better prepared, avoided or done differently. I agree with the Prime Minister, the report of the Corona Commission is a thorough and credible piece of work. The report states that we have done well compared to many other countries. Administrations are recognised for having converted and taken decisions with great uncertainty after 12 March. And as the Commission says, they couldn't have succeeded if the population hadn't stopped taking the measures. It tells of a community with high trust, a strong public health service, social partners who take responsibility, a paid sick pay scheme, money on books and more – in short: the Norwegian model. At the same time, the report is equally clear in its conclusion on the serious failure of preparedness and that the handling has had significant weaknesses. The impression when I hear the Prime Minister is that she is playing down a lot of that criticism, many of these shortcomings and weakness, and I think she is a little humble about many of the proposals for action. So let me remind you how serious the criticism is, and how much of it goes directly on the government and the head of government's responsibility. The Commission notes that the Norwegian emergency planning was ‘deficient’ and that the consequences of pandemic were ‘extremely underestimated’. For decades, a global pandemic has been the most likely crisis we knew, and one that would have the greatest impact on life, health and the economy. Nevertheless, no exercises have been carried out, no plans have been made for each sector of society to ‘manage invasive disease protection measures’ and the plan ‘was not dimensioned for a long-term crisis’. The Commission writes that the central authorities have not ‘assessed, or gained an overview of, the ability of local authorities to handle a pandemic’, and the Commission also writes: ‘major weaknesses in the preparation of medicinal products’, weaknesses known to the government after a thorough evaluation of the state of preparedness for medicinal products in 2019, just before the crisis occurred. The Commission identifies ‘a major shortage of infectious disease equipment’ and points out that Norway was rescued by luck because China was able to deliver at short notice what we were missing for a period of low infection. The report also describes an amazing urgency and time pressure in the hours before the closure of March 12. As a result of insidiousness in the government, the closure on 12 March, according to the Commission, was ‘poorly investigated and poorly prepared’, among others. in the event of a lack of assessment of the measures against the Constitution and human rights. Furthermore, we can read that after the pandemic last year, ‘we lacked a plan to deal with a new wave of infection’. The process was characterised by urgency, with the result that the import of infection was not under control, among other things. because the government, as stated in the report, ‘give to press’, in particular from Norwegian Industry. Again, the Commission draws a picture of a government that makes decisions on an ongoing basis, without sufficient overview and overall management and coordination. The Prime Minister says today that when it came to the import trade, it was probably too trust-based, i.e. that people did not have the confidence they should have, not that the measures that had been introduced lacked consistency. I mention these deficiencies and weaknesses in the report because they are serious. It is, therefore, the Prime Minister after the presentation of the report referred to as ‘sex error’. It is an eye-catching discharge from a Head of Government who went to elections in 2013 for better preparedness and better coordination. This is particularly alarming because the Commission is the toughest in criticising overall management and coordination in the field of preparedness. They say that ‘no one has taken responsibility for assessing the sum of the impacts on society as a whole’. It is a responsibility which, in other words, can only be entrusted to the head of the government. The Labour Party will do what we can to ensure that the Stortinge treats the report with seriousness and responsibility. This applies in the broader debate next week and in the thorough review that must come on the day the Commission delivers its next report. We have to be honest about what didn't work, not trivialize, and we have to learn. In the next crisis, we cannot rely on improvisation and a social model that delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e428	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough account of the work of the Corona Commission. Thanks also for an honest feedback to the Storting about the challenges the government and other authorities faced when the pandemic broke out. The Korona Commission has 17 main messages and 63 learning points, and the Prime Minister has previously announced, and repeated today, that the government will come back with its own big message about the findings and references of the Korona Commission when the pandemic is over or under control. It'll be important. It's not a trivialization, it's taking the Commission's report very seriously. The Commission considers that Norway was poorly prepared when the pandemic broke out. They were not prepared to shut down society, and there was a lack of necessary infectious agents. The government had plans for the management of the pandemic, but there were no plans for a full shut-down of society – schools, workplaces, transport, shops, accommodation, events, etc. We were on the same boat as most other countries. This pandemic hit society so comprehensively that it was difficult to be fully prepared, but once the crisis was there, governments and health authorities reacted quickly. Now, a little over a year later, we've learned to live with the pandemic. The government, the FHI and the Health Directorate have handled the ongoing crisis management well, according to the Commission. I agree. The Norwegian people have ended up taking the measures, even though they have cost a lot of money. And here we are, I guess, at the heart of the matter. When the consequences of the pandemic are, after all, smaller in Norway than in the vast majority of countries, it is about Norwegian society — a society based on trust between government, big business, trade unions, the social partners and the majority of people. Now we're paid to live in a country where openness and trust characterize the relationship between government and citizens, where people set up, take one for the team, and help us get out of the crisis as quickly as possible. This mutual trust has marked the last year, and the understanding of the measures and the willingness to comply with them has been outstanding. Many have said that now it's coming to light, now we hope it'll be over soon, but just as fully people stand up and help bring us one step closer to the end of the pandemic. The Commission is critical of the lack of preparation in many areas. Infectious equipment was missing, but creative improvisation made sure that we got this in place quite quickly, and now the government has filled the warehouses. The Prime Minister now informed us that we have breathing protection for 400 years of normal consumption and eye protection for 2,000 years in stock. We hope they don't have a date stamp that goes out with the first! When the closure was adopted on 12 March, it happened at express speed. Here the Commission believes that the government should take the decision, not the Health Directorate. That is what the Prime Minister agrees with, and of course I agree with that too, but of course it was not the case that the Health Directorate acted on its own. It was in consultation with the government, and the next day the Ministry of Justice and Defence took over the crisis management. Then the Stortinget was connected, the Korona Act was adopted, and the dialogue between the Magnificent and the Government has since been managed in a good and tidy way. Today we have the ninth presentation on the pandemic, a number of crisis packages have been adopted, and laws have been amended in order to implement new measures quickly. Well, we're in this hall of political opponents, but I want to thank everyone again for having set up in a demanding time. Norwegian municipalities have also set up. They have turned around and made major changes in a short time: closed schools and kindergartens, regulations on closed shops and catering sites, protection of the most vulnerable of our inhabitants, from lack of testing capacity to handling mass testing and vaccine roll-out to all residents – in addition to everything that is going to go on in an almost normal way. I understand that many municipalities have been frustrated that they have not had information, and that things need to be implemented quickly. But here the municipalities have shown that they are able to adapt quickly, and they have made a formidable effort to inform their own citizens and at the same time operate local crisis management – another example of the trust society in Norway. There is no doubt that many people pay a high price for the pandemic. The pandemic may end, but the handling of those who have been extra hard hit will last longer. The government's goal is that no one should be left alone with their challenges caused by the pandemic. We've been in this together, and our goal is to get out of the crisis together. There are many things that could have been done better, but the most important thing the Corona Commission points out is that the government has handled the crisis in a good way. It's also because of the mentality we have in this country to set up for each other when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e451	I want to start by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation. It is a good report from the Corona Commission which concludes that overall good management of the pandemic by the authorities has been good. And I think we can agree on that, as long as Norway has now – at least so far – come out with few deaths and in all material terms also had good control over the infection. Nevertheless, it is important, as the Prime Minister says, that the evaluation continues, because there will be major consequences of the pandemic even after it is over. It was a failure on import infection, and that has been pointed out by the Party for a long time. It says here that the government did not have an adequate plan to deal with a new wave of infection in Europe after the summer. It was despite the fact that the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate assessed import infection as one of the major risk factors. The progress batch set out mandatory testing at the limits as early as last August. The cause was increasing infection — increasing import infection. The proposal was put to the vote in the Stortinget on 10 December, and the Council of State Höie said that ‘I consider compulsory testing to be a very invasive measure first and foremost’. That was the whole point to get control of the import infection. In January it was introduced, and the follow-up has been a lot of problems. There is also a need for further examination/evaluation of the vaccine strategy. The Financial Times has an overview of how far countries have come in vaccination. Norway is in 37th place of the countries — miles behind Israel, Chile, Bahrain and the United States. Slow vaccination is the reason for slow reopening. It costs business enormously, and it costs our citizens enormously, not least children, young people and the elderly. Since the Commission's report shows, there has been a meeting with a pharmaceutical company, AstraZeneca, and on the basis of this one meeting, it has been concluded that no further progress is being made in trying to reach their own agreements with the pharmaceutical companies. Instead, the government chose to rely blindly on the EU, which has been rusted up by the government in the clouds, but which otherwise in Europe is being criticised for the agreements they have concluded and for the delay in doing so. The World Health Organisation is also out now saying that Europe’s vaccination is going unacceptably late. So the government's strategy to obtain the vaccine costs the country dearly, and the Progress Party is concerned that this is getting closer in the seams. The Progress Party is also concerned that we need to plan for the future and look at the preparedness for drugs, in terms of their ability to produce it in Norway, along with vaccines. Producers are ready – there are people who want to be involved and invest in this kind of production in Norway, ready – but they are waiting for the government. The Progress Party has put forward proposals to get this going, and I hope we get a majority in favour of our proposal. It's too early to conclude by what the long-term consequences of the pandemic are. But what we know is that children and young people are a gap in knowledge. We know that children and young people who are subjected to violence and abuse have had a terrible time. We know that eating disorders are now increasing sharply. We also know that mental disorders among children and young people, and also in the rest of the population, seem to be becoming a bigger and bigger problem. We know that older people have suffered from impaired health due to less follow-up and help. We know that health services have now made fewer serious diagnoses, including: within cancer, which will have consequences. We know that business is struggling, but we still don't know how many businesses are going to end, and we don't know how many people are going to stand without a job when this crisis is over. I am surprised that the Minister of Finance is standing in the middle of the pandemic and announces that the rule of action will be observed next year. The Progress Party believes that it is far too early to say what kind of situation we have next year, and what needs we have to stand up for the population and make sure that no one is left alone with the consequences of the pandemic. Then there will probably be a need to spend money. The progress party is not concerned with spending as much money as possible, but we are busy setting up for those who need it now, in the wake of this crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e468	The clearest conclusion of the Korona Commission was that it was a serious failure that the government was not prepared when the coronary apathy came. In other words, the government was informed, but not prepared for the pandemic that hit us. Suffering if no one can deprive the Prime Minister and the government of the action that was taken on 12 March last year, it is therefore the framework around us that has been the most important thing for us in the long run. It is the solid social model, the broad welfare systems and the well-organised working life – that is what also saves us through. And it's our strength that, compared to very many other countries, we're a decentralised society where we trust each other, we trust each other and the governments. In the case of preparedness, the report has an all-round sharp criticism of the government. The government has shown that a pandemic was the most likely crisis that could hit. Nevertheless, there was no scenario, no plans and no emergency stocks of medicinal products, infective equipment and other health material. The paradox is great, because when the Right joined the government, it was an important election vow to make Norway better equipped for these kinds of crises. The Government Declaration stated that the government would have strengthened coordination of preparedness and increased enforcement. The Commission is well-documented that these commitments have not been fulfilled after seven years — and with an equal number of emergency ministers. This is how the conclusions of the Corona Commission are not only serious about preparedness, but also a little embarrassing to the Prime Minister. Non-coordination is one of the points raised by the Commission. That's one of the very important points raised by the Commission. Similarly, one did not take sufficient account of the municipalities. The municipalities were given far larger tasks than they were prepared for, but received very little information and help, especially in the first phase. In the distribution of infectious diseases equipment, municipalities were deprived, and the government paid the most attention to hospitals. The government did not provide the municipalities with the necessary support for the important job of infection tracking and testing, nor did there exist a plan to stop the infection of imports in the autumn of 2020. It was also the municipalities that announced to a large extent the situation that was about to arise. I hear one today saying that now we have breathing protection for so many hundred years and eye protection for so many hundreds of years. But when the pandemic hit, we had zero stocks of this kind of important material. The fact that Health Minister Höie had a friend in China was certainly crucial to the success of the acquisition of infectious disease protection equipment, but should preparedness really be so random and vulnerable? The answer to that is maritimely no. Instead of building up the production and storage of infectious diseases, the government has been committed to this through international trade, as has always been the case when some of us have called for emergency storage, among other things. medicinal products and infective equipment. The preparedness challenges facing Norway are multiplicity. They are of both civil and military character. In any case, this Commission report should contribute to the overall level of preparedness challenges being much higher on the agenda than they have been in recent years. I have tried to count up, and I believe that the centre party has promoted approx. 15 preparedness proposals in recent years, and we have alternately been smiled overbearing by, or strongly criticized for exaggeration. But it's actually pretty important. One of the main proposals put forward by the Centre Party is on the subject of a new Total Emergency Commission. The Willoch Committee presented its investigation into a vulnerable society in 2000. So 20 years have passed since Norway last had a thorough review of all parts of the country’s preparedness. A lot has happened in these 20 years, and a complete review of our national preparedness is needed. This proposal has now been voted down, it has been promoted several times and voted down. I've often wondered if it's going down just because it's the Center Party that has promoted it. But let's hope now that it's possible to get through to it, because the Corona Commission shows us the need for a new Total Emergency Commission in Norway. Security is a government’s primary responsibility, and Norway must be better prepared for the next crisis than we were for it. It is a debate that one must continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e489	The most important thing the Commission points out is that the government has handled it well, said the representative of Greece. So here's the right election campaign that's talking, not someone who's interested in learning from what this report tells us. I think that's quite revealing, and it goes into a pattern of excuses where the government has been very unwilling to admit that there is serious criticism in this report. That makes it necessary for the opposition to point out the heavy criticism, since the government is so concerned not to do it itself. It is also alarming, I think, that the Prime Minister does not come with clearer self-criticism after the Commission has pointed out great failure in the preparedness for which she was responsible. Instead, she has, among other things, used the word «sex error» as an explanation in the media, and I would say for once that the Prime Minister's favourite quote fits: I wouldn't use those words. The inability to admit errors seems to me to have become a repetition of the leadership of this government, and it is probably also a form of government wear. The Commission's report hits the Prime Minister hard because she just became Prime Minister with a promise of better preparedness as a fanatic. Where is that report coming with serious criticism? Let me mention three things: First of all, it's the lack of preparedness itself. It turns out that the government was unprepared for a pandemic, despite the fact that it was considered one of the most likely threats. They had no practice, they had no plan, and the shelves were empty. The second is the lack of democratic anchoring along the way in crisis management. Here the Commission must be listened to, and we must have a discussion, which I am also pleased that the government is opening up, about the amendment of the Code of Disease Protection. We have a law that is not adapted to a long-term crisis. Anti-infectious measures under a pandemic are not purely professional assessments; they are far from deep political decisions. The fact that the government has had all the power alone in these issues has led to less transparency, and probably also to less room for counter-representation and debate on those who have suffered the most from the measures. The government could and should have chosen to share that power with the Storting, and the Storting should have demanded a greater role, as SV has repeatedly suggested during the crisis. The third point that I think is important is the situation of municipalities and the lack of coordination. In addition, the Commission is addressing to a small extent the area where the government has failed the most, namely the management of the social and economic crisis, where the government has acted too late over and over again. Early in the crisis, the government should put in place procedures for which social and economic measures would follow the closure, but it never came, and most of the important social measures have been pushed through by the opposition in the United Kingdom. We believe that the Commission's report is weak in an important area, and that is the discussion we should now have about the systemic problems in the healthcare sector. Poor intensification capacity is, among other things, a result of the retail-stimulated funding system in hospitals and a discussion of the business model and price financing should be part of the further discussion on better preparedness. SV also believes that further reports and debates in this area need to address, in addition to the systemic health problems, better preparedness for the social and economic problems that arise in a health crisis and that we need a long-term plan for children and young people. Now I could choose to focus on some of the positive things that have emerged in the report, because they're definitely there. But I think when the Right chooses to overinterpret it so far that the ‘all the most important Korona Commission points to’ is that the government has handled it well, we may be a place where there are other things the government and government parties need to hear. Finally, we believe that the need for learning, the need to go thoroughly through the advice we have received, and the need to point the way forward, suggest thorough treatment in the Stortinget. The SV Group therefore considers that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is the right place to continue working on the report.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e514	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough and open settlement. After reading the report to the Corona Commission, I am very impressed by the work done by the government, and the work of the Public Health Institute and the Health Directorate has ceased. After listening to the opposition party now, one would think it was a quick fix to handle a virus that covid-19, despite the fact that the Commission is clocky: no country in the world was well-predicted to tackle such a pandemic. No one had the authority to have plans, strategies and preparedness that were predicated on a totally unknown virus that was so contagious, with such a fatal picture of disease to vulnerable groups. Nevertheless, Norway is one of the countries with the lowest rates of infection, the lowest rate of death and the lowest level of economic activity. One doesn't have to follow up on the international news in the last year to conclude that unfortunately it's not. An important explanation of why Norway has done well is what the Commission writes in Chapter 2.1 A well-equipped society, about the rather unique trust and solidarity we have in Norway between the governmental powers, citizens and civil society: ‘However, the authorities could not succeed without population disintegration.’ Such trust may never take for granted or trusted if it is not properly managed and developed. If there's one point the government really has to boast about, it's on how open, visible and accessible they've been from day one, not only when it's what they've seen in action, but also when the doubts and assessments are going on, they've had the will to listen wide all the time, and the interaction they've had with the Storting. Parliament has also shown itself from its best point of view, since the Committee on Finance put together an extended weekend last March and negotiated the first coronary crisis package, where large, new welfare schemes for self-employed and outsourced were launched. Arrangements we had normally used months and years to get in place, were adopted and put into practice in close interaction with the department and Nav in record time. Everyone set up for everyone. The size also used the ability we have to set up our own special committee, composed of the Grand President and all the parliamentary leaders, such as the President of Parliament. Managed Koronalova, a law where the Storting was invited to give the government far more power than a government should strictly have. The leader of the largest opposition party was the case spokesperson. Gahr Støre did an impressive job and lost her work with wisdom and great sense of responsibility. The other parliamentary leaders, aside from all party politics, used all the wisdom, wisdom, and resources they possess to ensure that we together had the best leadership to deal with the pandemic. I also think well how the government cooperated with the Korona Committee, with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice at the head – safe and clear, but still with a soft, listening approach to crisis management tasks and the demanding weighings Stortinget also had to do. There is little doubt that the interplay of government-disruption and interplay at Stortinget in the last year has shown Norwegian policy at its best, just as the interplay between government-disruption on the one hand and civil society has been close and good. The next acid test that we, who at any time represent democratic power, manage this pillar, trust and openness of Norwegian democracy, is how we evaluate and learn from the combined crisis management. The fact that the government started an external, independent evaluation of its own crisis management in the middle of the pandemic and announces full review as soon as society approaches normality shows once again a government that is responsible for its consciousness, and thus provides a good basis for us to pass that test as well. So I hope that the Storting follows the same pattern.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e536	I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for a thorough presentation. The pandemic is still going on, it's not over. At the same time, it makes sense to go in and see how the crisis has been managed up to now. What has worked – what has not worked? What do we have to improve, and what can we learn? The Commission report shows that overall good management of the pandemic has been achieved by the authorities. At the same time, we need to learn from the points in the report that document weaknesses. It is not least about the overall coordination of resources and cooperation across agencies. These are weaknesses we recognize from past crises, and there seems to be a weakness that repeats itself under different governments. Of course, in a report like the one we have now received on the table, the main focus will be retrospective. At the same time, we have to use it to look forward. That's why it's wise and proper for the Storing to go into this now, ask questions and define clear learning points. The crisis rate in society is likely to be the starting point of the previous crisis. We are planning for the previous crisis. It's natural in the nature of man to think like that. But this crisis can teach us that we also need to prepare for new scenarios, new types of crises, and that the unmistakable can happen. Preparing for the full closure of Norway is difficult to have a full picture in advance. It's an extreme situation we as society had not been able to see the consequences of fully, regardless of who had run. But in the middle of this extreme situation that we've been in, and that we're still in, the government has essentially handled the situation well, is the conclusion of the Commission report. It has happened in close cooperation with Stortinget and with authority from Stortinget. We've put life and health first. It is a choice of values, and it has been a fundamental approach to the whole crisis management process. We've given priority to children and young people, it's also an important choice of values. Norway is in a particular class internationally in terms of the number of deaths. There may be several reasons for this, but there is no doubt that, among other things. is a result of a wild policy where we have put life and health first. Organisational discussions tend to be a repetition of the evaluation of crises. We also saw it after the terrorist attack on 22 July, where it was so tragically revealed that today's government had failed in the security and preparedness work. At the same time, I would like to say that what we have now seen through this pandemic so far, despite weaknesses, is that there has been a lot of good organisation in the health care system, although there are also clear improvement points. Much has worked very well, and I want to pay tribute to all those who have made an effort at all levels of the Norwegian health care system. I also want to pay tribute to everyone in the school and education sectors, who has made a brave effort to adapt to changing circumstances. The school student has had and will have an important task in the future. Teachers and all those who work in the first line with children and young people contribute safety, guidance and knowledge to those who grow up in a difficult time. It's very important. We'll notice the consequences of this pandemic for a long time to come. Human costs are high. Let's not underestimate the challenges in the next few months either. The psychological pressures can have major consequences. We have today been presented to the challenges our students have experienced, experiences we also need to take seriously. This is why it is important to further strengthen the commitment to mental health, and we need to strengthen our efforts to prevent it, so that we can catch up early on children and young people who are struggling and who are at risk of falling outside. I believe afterwards will show that this government led the country safely through the crisis, and that the measures that were taken helped to save lives. At the same time, we must learn from points such as: The Prime Minister was at the heart of the report from the Commission. It will be a task of government and greatness to ensure that this is done in a good and reassuring way in order to strengthen preparedness for future crises. Deep down, it's about us as a society being equipped to face crises in the future too, both the known and the unknown, when they occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e565	Erna Solberg acknowledges that the pandemic is raging, but not that the government's crisis policy has helped to reinforce the differences. And the crisis policy is seriously affecting the workers, children and young people, those who live alone, those who are sick and vulnerable. The Government gave the Commission a mandate which did not include the emergency packages. They have proved to be almost so-called differential bombs, by rich corporate owners and property lords getting everything they point to, while the bill is being rolled over to the employees. A virus may not distinguish people by itself, but it's done by the government's pandemic management. At least we have seen an unfair closure – now we have to ensure a fair reopening of our society. The report confirms the Aftenpost's disclosure that the government gave too much pressure to open up labour imports from high-infection countries, despite warnings from health authorities. Infectiveness, life and health were set aside to ensure the performance of some business stops with a direct line to the government, while the bill went to the unemployed and to operators in the food, culture and other hard hit sectors, who have not received the same attention from the Right, Left and Christian People's Party. Red expects the control committee to start a proper examination of the report. We must also have a clear answer from Erna Solberg to the following questions: Why did Minister of Health Bent Höie write to Stortinget that the government had not given in to lobby press, when the Korona Commission has come to a different conclusion? Our welfare, not least health care, has been shelled and selected by the government - intensive places, local hospitals, employees for small job breaks, involuntary part-time, and also outsourcing services. All of this shows that we have increased the risk of infection. Then there are changing governments that have sold out and put down stand-bys for infectious disease protection equipment, medicine and food. The down-priority of self-sufficiency and preparedness is based on a rather naive belief in free trade, which has made us vulnerable and can do even greater damage to new pandemics, which neither hit as expected and planned by the government. The report is, in fact, a pure slaughter of the policy of the right-wing government, which led to elections just to improve Norway’s preparedness. Then the Commission concludes that the Constitution was broken. Let me quote from the Commission's seventh main point: ‘It is in crisis situations that there is the greatest risk that the Constitution and human rights will be violated and that citizens’ rights may be violated.’ Then the spinal cord reflex of the authorities should be to make sure that pandemic management took place within the framework of the Constitution and human rights. It obviously didn't happen at the beginning of the pandemic. And on the other hand, ‘The government should have provided more thorough assessments against the Basic Law and the Human Rights as they used the powers of the Protection of Human Rights Act § 7-12.’ It is not sustainable if this does not get a full treatment of the Storting before a choice. This applies regardless of who is in government, and who has to be in charge of winning the election. Therefore, Red proposes that the Prime Minister’s statement be sent to the Control Committee for consideration. And just based on the government's proposal for the Korona Law, which would set absolutely central principles aside, we can say that the government did not pass the democracy test through this pandemic. Then I'll draw out what's in chapter 27 of the report. It appears that the government chose to notify Norway into an EU agreement for the joint acquisition of medical devices, JPA. The Minister of Government and the Ministry of Health concluded that the agreement entailed a transfer of authority and therefore had to be submitted to Stortinget under the Constitution. However, the agreement was concluded without the consent of Storting. Therefore, I would like a clear answer, yes or no: Did the Prime Minister Stortinget inform you of this basis for participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e599	Obviously, the report of the Corona Commission is read with the glasses you wear and with the political filter you have. When the representative of Moxnes says that the report of the Korona Commission is a pure slaughter of government policy, it may be important to recall that the main conclusion is that the administration's handling of the corona has been good overall. It's a nice formulation if it's pure slaughter. I have listened to many of the contributions, and I have not intended to comment on each of them. As I said, it is possible to read different points out of this, but I want to start with a – let me say – obvious misunderstanding. It has been guilty of both the representative Gahr Støre and the representative Lysbakken. It's that I should have commented on the Korona Commission that they have pointed out a flaw in beauty. That's not right. In an interview with Dagbladet, before the Korona Commission had presented this, I said – after I had pointed out many things that the government actually thought could be better – that the system has worked quite well, although it is always a beauty flaw. It was before the Korona Commission put this forward, and in a context where many other things were commented on. I hope we've now put that argument dead, because here, obviously, it's completely incorrect, and it's inserted into another context. It may not have been wise to use the word «feelings», but there are many small and big things that we could have done better in this, and some great things in which we have agreed to the criticism, through the explanation I have given. This applies, inter alia, to: that we should be better prepared with regard to infectious diseases devices, which the government has been aware that we should be. We take full and clear criticism of that. We did that long before the Corona Commission did. Those were things we should be better prepared for. With regard to the question of preparation for pandemics, the debate has used slightly different terms. We were informed, but not prepared, said the representative of the Central Party, Marit Arnstad. But we were prepared for what DSB had as a scenario for the most likely pandemic. We were prepared for what the World Health Organization said was the most likely pandemic, but we didn't challenge those scenarios. I believe that we can take criticism for doing so. The most alarmed pandemic we had a good device to meet, but it was completely different from the pandemic we met. Then I believe that we should think outside the box, and that it is among the things we should have learned – thought and worked on it in a different way. But when it comes to thinking outside the box, it's not like we were informed and warned about a pandemic that was completely different. Everyone believed that the most likely thing was a flu pandemic, where we had a pandemic strategy and a system for how we could handle it. I think you should take over the paradigm shift that has happened. In the pandemic preparation we have, and the plan for the one that the World Health Organization has, the plan that Norway had, they actually warned against all the measures that we have had, and that are now successful, because you hadn't thought outside the box in the preparatory work, you hadn't seen enough of it. So now we've done it. It's new work. I agree that we should think outside that box, but it's not like we were informed that it was the most likely scenario that happened. No, it was different than the most likely scenario that actually happened. But we should have worked more on asking ourselves these questions beyond what was the planning horizon and the scenarios that were drawn up. Then I agree that we should go over and look at the vaccine strategy. It is one of the obvious issues that the next report should address. I also believe that the import-infection issue, which is quite generally handled in this report, should of course also be reviewed in an even better way, not least how we have learned from the first part of the pandemic in dealing with the second part of the pandemic. These include: the reason why we should have a new report and come back even further. Then I want to say that I have unfortunately not understood the argument that Jonas Gahr Støre points out, that it is going to be wrong when I say that it was trust-based, that we had quarantine in the beginning. We had quarantine at first as the most severe country in Europe when there were over 20 people per 100,000 infected in one country. We assumed that everyone would carry out the quarantine, with the clear exception that was given to the industry's self-regulation of leisure quarantine. But we saw that the quarantine wasn't followed up well enough. Then we gradually introduced other measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e624	The comment round has thus ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the report of the Korona Commission and its follow-up by the Government be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e640	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e647	I would first like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, even though we have failed to agree entirely. I'll get closer to that. The proposal for a representative makes proposals in which a request is made by the government to make the necessary regulatory and/or regulatory changes so that the obligation to pay VAT is suspended when the claims are disputed. The background to the proposal is that a person must pay VAT on invoiced claims even when the claim is contested and it may be long before a person receives a settlement. In particular, this is relevant to construction activities that are subject to the so-called jump obligation, which means that one must carry out any changes that the customer wants, even when there is a disagreement, and one must continue to work. The Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority, the majority of which consist of an overall opposition in favour of making such changes. It specifies that this should be related to construction and calls on the government to follow-up as soon as possible and at the latest in the context of proposals for a State budget for 2022. The minority believe that the current rules as they result from the current year’s government budget, where a deferred payment of VAT until the mission is completed, are applicable, and that one is open at the same time to make further assessments. I'm assuming that the minority will deepen its vision. The regulatory framework, as it is today, is a major liquidity challenge for contractors subject to disputed requirements. There are a number of contentious demands. These requirements do not only apply when the assignment is in progress, but may go into the judicial system for many years before it is resolved. We have examples of contentious demands in the hundreds of millions class where it has gone up to five years before they are settled in the judicial system. I record that, for example, the Minister of Finance states that there should not be too much time between reporting and that the goods or service have been made available for use. It is above all the builder who has the benefit of making it available. The contractor does not benefit from it, but the contractor is responsible for providing VAT. That is why we are asking for rapid follow-up from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e664	This matter is very important for the construction industry. I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Gülsvik, very much for the work he has done in the Committee, which now leads to a positive decision in line with what the undersigned and other representatives of the Progress Party have proposed. There is a problem in construction that there are many disputes. There is also a little special legislation that regulates this. That is what is characterised as the obligation to jump or to execute. This means that the builder may require the contractor to implement changes to a project, complete the project, even if there is disagreement as to whether it is under the agreement concluded. In that case, the contractor must invoice the works carried out in order to have a claim to pursue. There are many disputes with the public as a builder, and that is partly very large amounts. This leads to large liquidity challenges for smaller entrepreneurs when VAT is paid in billing. The Progress Party has addressed this issue repeatedly, and the Storting has decided to ask the government to look at regulatory changes. Now the Storting will decide that changes will be implemented. It is also important to clarify that this applies to construction. The changes in the rules to be applied to help prevent ‘foresight’ VAT apply only to that industry, and there are no general changes in the rules. This is an important clarification, which is also in the Committee's position to adopt a decision. The reason is quite well documented in the case's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e675	The deadline for payment of the VAT may be required. Especially when the amounts are large, this can be a heavy burden. We also have a lot of understanding of the wish from the construction industry that something is being done. But it might also apply to other industries. It could be the ICT industry, and it could be other industries that can cope with exactly the same challenges. Therefore, one might also consider whether the rule changes should be such that one not only looked at the VAT bit but also at unresolved claims and how long they should stand before one gets a solution, so that we do not get the five-year intervals that we have seen in individual cases. The government has through Prop. 1 S, the State budget, has proposed a change, and the Stortinget has agreed that the requirement can be postponed until the works are completed – the Stortinget has agreed. It's a good piece on the road. I see that the majority wants to go even further, and that seems to us to be problematic at the moment, both to other industries and because we see that it can create unfortunate effects. We are unsure whether there are subsidy conditions that are the framework, and we are also uncertain whether we have a complex regulatory framework that allows us to get a hollowing out and creative challenges within the regulatory framework. So we were challenged to say something about what minority means about the budget for 2022. In the minority comment too, we have said that we should say something that we expect the government to clarify these challenges. But as we now conclude, I believe that we do not want to go into a special arrangement for the construction industry here today. Therefore, we look forward to the further treatment and hope that we can achieve something that we can live with – for the construction industry, but also for the other industries, and that we do not discriminate in time. I think I would be demanding for the Storting, but also for those industries that feel unfairly treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e684	The proposal we are discussing today involves changing the rules so that the obligation to pay VAT is deferred until the disputed requirement is settled. Six months ago, the Storting asked the government to assess such a change of rules. The government had begun its evaluation when the representatives presented their proposal. I stress that the change of regulation from 1 January this year, which was a direct follow-up to the previous request decision, has solved part of the problem by shielding the contractors from the VAT liquidity loading in the course of the project. There are several reasons why I am sceptical about the proposal in the vote. VAT is a consumption tax. There should therefore be a certain degree of proximity between the time when delivery becomes available for use and the date of entry into service of the fee. The starting point is that the fee obligation occurs upon delivery. The proposal violates this basic principle and opens up the payment of VAT only long after the delivery has been put into service. There will be a system breach Norway seems to be alone. It increases credit risk and proceeds. The VAT rules shall be simple to understand and practice. A manageable, verifiable tax time is important. The proposal creates new problems of demarcation. It will provide control challenges and provide for undesirable adaptations, in particular where contractors and contracting entities are related parties. A specific rule for the construction industry could create undesirable distortions and discrimination and pressure on other industries for similar changes. A change in the rules applicable only to works could also result in different treatment of the different suppliers for the same construction project. The representative proposal also raises issues of State aid law. It suggests that any change in the rules must be clarified with ESA. In summary, this case has several challenging aspects that need to be thoroughly investigated. As I said, we are already doing that work, and I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e699	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e704	This is no new matter. It's a matter that a whole industry has been working on over time. And what surprises me a little bit, after hearing the statements of the Council of State, is what has happened in the government along the way here. Last January, Prime Minister Erna Solberg was at Arctic Entrepreneur. As far as I know, the Minister of Finance was also present there. On construction facts.no, the participation of the Prime Minister has been summarised as follows: ‘In response from the Chamber, the Prime Minister made a clear promise that she would like the payment of VAT to be terminated on services which the contracting entity is reluctant to pay.’ And she followed up in a podcast in retrospect. Has the government changed its mind on this? But even more important than that: will the government now ensure rapid follow-up to the Storting decision to make the necessary changes as a result?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e718	The government followed up what the Prime Minister said, in a budgetary settlement with the Progress Party. And then it's wanted to look at further improvements. We are already doing this well. But it is that when you sit in government, you have the responsibility to handle a matter properly. I have pointed out some challenges in my posts here and in letters to the Committee. I see that the centre party sees only one side of the case, but as the responsible state council I have the responsibility to clarify this matter properly, and also look at what distortion effects this could have, and what consequences it could have for other industries. I think it is unfortunate if it is such that different suppliers in the same project have different rules in this field. So we have to have a proper investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e725	This question has been investigated over time. And so what was the issue when the Prime Minister was at Arctic Entrepreneur last year is not what the government has in the current year's budget in cooperation with the Progress Party, namely that one postpones until the project is completed. It says a total industry is not sufficient. It is precisely the lengthy disputes that are going on in the judicial system over the years that make it a major liquidity challenge, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises – just some of what the Prime Minister also pointed out when she replied in retrospect in podcasts. Why has the government turned the trill around in this question over the course of a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e730	I totally disagree with that claim. It is possible that the Centre Party considers itself to be a mailbox for all proposals from various professional organisations, but that is not the way a government can act. I agree that there are challenges for many in the construction sector. That is why we have made improvements in cooperation with the Progress Party. That is why we have started further investigation of this matter. But I am responsible for the matter being adequately clarified. I believe that it is not preliminary. That is why we need to look at different aspects of this matter before we get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e736	The clear leftover impression from those who were present at Arctic Entrepreneur last year was that this was something the government was supposed to clean up, that it would end up with VAT on disputed claims, precisely because it is a heavy burden for the contractors. This is a matter which the Committee on Budgets has dealt with in several rounds, on which we have spent a great deal of time, and on which a clear majority of the Committee is committed to making changes. At least what I am asking the Council of State to confirm now is that the Council of State and the Government will follow up the decision of the Stortinget that one should return as soon as possible with the necessary regulatory changes that will ensure that VAT is abolished on disputed requirements for the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e741	Firstly, the government has made improvements as a follow-up, among other things. from the Prime Minister's presence at that conference, and we have wanted the improvement that is in place. So it's like every government is dealing with a majority in the Storting, but a government council is responsible for highlighting the matter properly. I don't think it's at the moment. I also believe that the representative of the Central Party will be well served that all aspects of this matter are properly highlighted, and that the necessary clarifications will also be made with ESA if it turns out that this has a State aid law aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e746	I'm not going to dwell so much on the history of this issue, but like the representative, I want to make it clear that it's not a new issue. It's a problem we've been discussing in different contexts, including here in the Storting. We know that the government has to follow the decision of the Storting, it should just be lacking, but what is crucial now is to know a little more specifically when the Storting can expect these regulatory changes to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e751	I fully agree that this is not a new issue, but it does not mean that this is a simple matter either. I think that the majority should also see fit to acknowledge that this has different sides that we have to think really well through, and that has to be well figured out. This decision, by which the Stortinget is required to do so, shows that it is at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2022. I deal with the decisions taken by Stortinget, and then I will ensure that the matter is adequately clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e756	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e775	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, there will be a reply to replies from members of the government, and those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e782	In this representative proposal, SV proposes to amend the tax law so that municipalities can no longer set a lower rate of property tax than the maximum rate, thus preventing tax competition between municipalities. As the law is today, the Storting determines each year a maximum rate of property tax. In 2021 the maximum rate is 0,85 pst., with a State share of 0,15 pst. and a municipal rate of up to 0,7 pst. The municipalities then set a local rate within the action space provided by the decision to raise a deposit. The proposal refers to the tax decision in the municipality of Bø in the Vesterålen from 2020, where the local government decided to reduce the municipal part of the property tax from 0,7 pst. to 0.2 pst. with effect from the year of income 2021, and further to its consequences for the income system, the total tax revenue, well-being and the next round for other parts of the tax system. The proposers also refer to the partial compensation provided by the municipality within the income system as an exception applicable for two years, 2021 and 2022. I refer to the majority vote, which is that the proposal is not adopted. I assume that the parties themselves will comment and explain their proposals and comments. The system of municipal property taxes dates back to the 1800s and is a co-determination that is an important part of municipal autonomy. When the municipality of Bø decided in 2020, as the first, a lower local rate for the property tax, not all the effects of such a decision were simple to predict or to see through. In particular, the effect of reduced taxes on wealth is achieved through tax equalisation as a result of moving to the municipality. That is why the municipality of Bø in 2021 and 2022 is granted a temporary derogation for the principles of tax equalisation, but at the same time they are deducted for 5 million. kr per year in the population allowance. It is an amount equivalent to the loss that the municipality of Bø was aware that they themselves had to bear, i.e. a loss of income as a result of reduced taxes on wealth for those who were already resident in Bø when the municipality decided to reduce the rate. No other municipalities will be partially compensated in 2021 and 2022. It is an important principle that a municipality should not be able to take decisions that other municipalities will have to finance in the next round. A municipality that reduces the taxes on wealth must itself bear the loss of income by correcting it in tax equalisation. The Income System Committee has received an additional mandate to make an assessment of the local tax space and how it should be handled in the income system by June 2022. Those conclusions should not be pre-empted. In the light of the rejection of the proposal, the Committee:
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e801	It came as a surprise to everyone, including the local government itself, when the rapporteur in Bø proposed to reduce the municipal wealth tax rate. It is well agreed that the proposal did not meet the municipal law's requirement that a case be properly investigated. The vision was clear enough: to attract capital-intensive people who would invest their capital in local economic development, to the countryside. Realism in it was weakly subdued. But you might have been inspired by Robert Frost, who writes in a poem: Too many see things as they are and ask themselves why? I dream of things no one has seen and asked: Why not? At least the rapporteur had not looked so closely at the lack of revenue in the budget. But the party traps in the government came to the rescue and cover parts of the wallpaper. It is a remarkable thing in itself from a government that has been legislated for municipal autonomy in the municipal law. Self-government gives a great degree of freedom, and with great freedom, it should also mean taking responsibility for one's own actions. But it turned out that this does not just affect Bø. Lower tax revenue is equalised in the income system. So other municipalities had to contribute to the split layer for Bø. Private taxpayers in the whole country had to stand up for the rapporteur's stunt. What might have been thought of as a good model municipality for right-wing policy, an exhibition window on what low taxes on wealth could trigger by investment and activity, became a cross-cutting asset. The government had to warn other municipalities with similar ideas: they have to bear the loss of income themselves. The property tax is an important part of an overall tax system to help balance the differences in that country. This is increasing because we experience an increasing accumulation of wealth on few hands. One important factor for having a society of small differences in Norway is that, primarily through responsible and coordinated income accounting, we have had a reasonable distribution of the gain between labour and capital. This is in the process of escalating, and the relief of the right-wing government from the tax on capital is accelerating development. The Labour Party believes that it would be sensible to remove the access of municipalities to a reduction in the tax rate on wealth. When we do not vote in favour of the proposal today, the reason why we believe it is natural for the sample to look at the municipal income system to assess it in that context. An overall review can also illustrate the consequences of such an intervention in municipal autonomy. With that, I take up the proposal Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Red Party promote in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e822	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e827	Everything that we don't like, we're going to try to forbid -- that must be SV's mantra. SV does not like municipalities competing for citizens and using taxes as an instrument. Then, of course, it has to be banned. Nor does SV like that people make a lot of money without paying most of what they earn in taxes. Neither do they like that people who make money and don't pay the most in taxes build up fortunes. They have not yet been able to prohibit it, nor have they proposed it, but we shall not be surprised if they do. Whether this property is money or values in the form of property, production premises, machines, tools, materials – it doesn't matter. If such values can be built up, they must be taxed in such a way as to distort them. Of course, municipalities take advantage of the possibility they actually have to reduce the municipal share of the property tax, so of course SV does not like it, so it has to be banned, because there is something you can do. Competition is healthy, and if people have moved to a municipality, I also think there are other criteria than exactly the wealth tax that will weigh heavily. I doubt that in the long run there will be some special tax evasion and some loss of income for the municipalities if several municipalities do like the municipality of Bø. The majority in this case today agree that the income system committee should do the job they are assigned to and assess, among other things. this - for SV - the problem. The Progress Party is part of this majority and hopes that the sample concludes with a large cut or any option of removing the property tax, at least on working capital. Finally, I have to say that I struggle to understand SV's logic and ethical values. Municipalities and most people should not be allowed to determine the tax income and the management of their values. But when it comes to killing viable fetuses, it's free. Understand the one who can.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e838	The President will recommend that you stick to the matters you discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e843	It is important to fence on municipal freedom of action. In some areas, we also have a certain municipal freedom of action in terms of taxation, for example. in the field of property taxation, and on which the rapporteur of the case was present, it writes long back in time, all the way back to the 1800s. Of course, having a local freedom of action also entails a responsibility. I record that the case rapporteur, the representative Agdestein from the Right, says that it was not easy to predict what would be the consequence of the decision that Bø made to reduce the municipal share of the property tax. It is well possible that it was not easy to predict, but the more important it is then to place responsibility at the municipality of Bø in order to carry out thorough investigations of proposals they consider before they are adopted. That is absolutely essential. Or is it that one should have it in other areas too so that the municipalities can first make decisions that are not thoroughly enough investigated, then can they say that they did not quite see the consequences of what this could lead to for them, and then expect compensation from the state afterwards? It's obviously a way of dealing with things that are not wise. I also register that the government parties acknowledge that to other municipalities one should not compensate. But why in the world should one then compensate for Bø kommune, and not let Bø kommune itself bear the responsibility for the decisions they make – also to assess whether it will in sum be positive or not for that municipality? Now I also record that the Workers' Party announces that they are actually in favour of the proposal available from SV here. I have to say I'm a little surprised at that position from the Labour Party. In a number of areas of fiscal policy, we have different rules, many of them attached to national decisions, but also to municipal decisions, such as property taxes. Municipalities may, of course, decide not to have property taxes at all, or may decide to have a full property tax. The working party has said that one should have greater tension than today between different municipalities in that area, so I don't see the whole connection in that argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e852	The tax on wealth is an important tool to ensure that all persons in the country pay their fair tax to the community wherever they live, and not least it is an important tool for distribution policy. When taxes on wealth are cut, the distribution in Norway is weakened, and it is with the largest assets that will subtract. The experience of the municipalities of Bø to reduce the local wealth tax rate in order to attract people with large assets is that this opens up an unfortunate tax competition between municipalities. The experience of tax competition between countries is that when a country reduces taxes, others follow, and there is a negative spiral. Since Bø lowered its property tax, several other municipalities have decided to do the same. The loss of income and then, of course, well-being if all the municipalities were to follow, is estimated at 9 billion. kr annually. The result is that municipalities around the country will have less advice on welfare services. In order to compensate for reduced taxes on wealth, the Community will have to increase other taxes and taxes in order to obtain a more regressive tax system, where the wealthiest in society pays less than they do today, while others pay more. Following the decision of the local council in Bø in the Vesterålen in 2020, it was obvious that this was such an unusual event that there was no clear precedent for handling the case. This led, in SV's view, to the fact that the matter was also handled very poorly by the government, where there was obviously a need to protect a right-hand controlled municipality after a rather hasty decision. The practice created after that decision provides very unfortunate incentives for other municipalities to also reduce taxes on wealth, and thus to provide ground for a tax competition between municipalities. Several from the government parties have previously argued in the debate with the local self-government. I believe that there is reason to remember that under this government there has been a systematic weakening of the local authority's capacity for action and autonomy through the tax that is just justified on the basis of local self-government, the property tax, where the municipalities have gotten less and less leeway. In conclusion, I would just very much regret the use of words from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen. Both as a woman and as a wholesaler, I would like to have asked myself that kind of vocabulary in a debate. I'm addressing the proposal SV is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e869	The representative Kari Elisabeth Kaski has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e874	On the left, we believe that it is in principle important that municipalities should have the opportunity to set their own rates, that we have a good system, where the Stortinget determines the maximum rates of taxes on wealth, and that we still have that possibility. There is, as has been pointed out earlier, a long tradition of this in Norway, and we see no need to change it according to the wishes of the proposers. So the right thing that's pointed out is that this hasn't been done before. Bø has put the set down and now put this on the top. This has led to some unforeseen consequences. It is important that what the government has done is not a compensation, but a partial compensation for this this year and next year. For the Left, it is important and essential that this applies only to Bø. So there's no precedent for other municipalities, and it's just going to apply to these two years. It is important now that rules and consequences are clarified, including through the income system committee, so that all municipalities know what happens if they reduce the rate and how it will be managed. And so: I don't think this will lead to any competition between municipalities to reduce the rate of property tax. It has not been done before, and I don't think it will be done in the future either. What's crucial is that you know what's the consequence of reducing it, and then it's still going to be a local self-government. We support what is the majority's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e886	It is fundamentally positive that municipalities are creative and see how to create growth, activity and jobs in their municipality. Tax changes can be one – but let me underline one – of several instruments to achieve this. However, the starting point should be that municipalities should bear the income loss themselves. Most of the municipality's tax revenue, including: taxes on the income and wealth of personal taxpayers are currently included in the income balancing between municipalities. The income-balancing system has been in place for a long time to balance tax receipts between municipalities and to contribute to redistribution. The decision in the municipality of Bø has challenged the income system of the municipal sector. The government does not consider it reasonable for municipalities with maximum tax rates to compensate for the loss of municipalities that choose to reduce the tax rate. Therefore, the government has decided that it is the maximum rate to be applied when calculating the tax equalisation. In the future, municipalities may continue to avail themselves of the possibility of reducing the maximum rate, but they will not be compensated for any loss of income. There is a need to look at this issue further. The Government has given the income system committee an additional mandate to look at how the possibility of having lower rates should be addressed in the income system in the future. The committee will give its opinion in June 2022. The government will wait with a decision in this case until the selection setting has been submitted. I believe that the concerns expressed by the minority of the Committee are well taken care of. The Income System Committee is in the process of implementing the extended mandate, and all municipalities are well aware that they have to cover any loss of income from lower rates themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e902	I notice that the Council of State concluded by saying that it is now clear that other municipalities that may make similar decisions cannot expect to receive the same treatment as Bø has received. However, the question that remains is a matter of argument that the Council of State has in its letter to the Committee: Since not all the effects of reducing the municipal tax rate on wealth have been known – Bø was first outside – parts of the estimated loss for Bø municipality will be compensated in 2021 and 2022. It allows municipalities that make decisions and are only out in other areas – where in retrospect one may not be able to argue that not all factors were known – to come and ask for compensation. Does the Council of State not see that an unfortunate principle is being opened up by allowing the municipality of Bø to be compensated for something for which they are entirely responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e907	No, I'm not really worried about that. My experience with Norwegian municipalities and municipal politicians is that people make sure that things are well-explained and make decisions on the basis of it. The representative of Gülsvik indirectly now insinuates is that municipal politicians and municipalities will exploit the system. It is not my impression that Norwegian municipalities do. So it is in this specific case that no one has challenged this possibility to reduce the rate of property tax in the past, and the Ministry of Local Affairs, which has the primary responsibility for dealing with this matter, has then concluded that partial compensation can be provided, limited to two years, while waiting for the suspension of the income system committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e916	The question then has to be: what is so specific, related to the decision of the municipality of Bø, that the state enters and partially compensates for the two years, which necessarily means that there are others who have to be in the fissure layer for what the municipality of Bø has done? Have any incorrect information been provided by the government to the municipality of Bø, or is there any other matter in this case, which makes it reasonable that the municipality of Bø should not bear responsibility for its own decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e921	This case is complex. I think everyone has stated that this matter should have been better clarified before Bø made its decision. But you can also understand that it was not easy to see the consequences of this proposal. What is quite obvious is that the initial wallpaper covers of course Bø itself. The question is how to deal with this when new people move to the municipality of Bø. The discretionary grant is now limited, which is to be granted for two years. Then we will also have this matter clarified, and can see what consequences it will have. Then we get the investigation through the suspension of the income system committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e926	I want to try a thought experiment with the Minister of Finance. In the discussion on the wealth tax code of the municipality of Bø, a track on income systems and the cohesion between municipalities is rapidly being put in place. The other side of this question is the distribution. There are now several municipalities in Norway — many of which are Right-Handed — which have decided to reduce the local wealth tax rate. My question is: do you see that this is done, and the country's wealthiest adapts its residence address and home address to the municipalities with the lowest rates of property tax – perhaps some of them down to zero for the municipal part – how does the Minister of Finance think this will affect the distribution in Norway, and how will differences be affected, if one who is a millionaire or billionaire is free to choose the residence address where you pay the least tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e931	If a lot of municipalities had done this, it wouldn't have been such an advantage, because then, as the representative says, this would have been something many municipalities agreed on. I clearly recognise that there is a problem of redistribution that needs to be discussed – both between people and in the case of municipalities. Now there are some municipalities that have signaled that they will assess it. This applies not only to the right-hand-driven municipalities – it is also central-party-controlled municipalities that regard this as a tool. Now Bø gets the opportunity to try this out. It involves limited compensation of two years. We've put the line there, and we want to get this case well-lit through this expert investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e938	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e957	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, no lines will be given, and those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e964	The size is invited here to make changes to the Social Security and Social Services Act as a consequence of previous decisions in Stortinget. The Committee's position is unanimous in favour of the government's proposal. The proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Security apply first of all to the necessary corrections as a result of the repeal of the specific provisions for refugees with effect from 1 January 2021. The Committee agrees. However, the minority in the Committee – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left – have shown, in note, that we disagreed with the restrictions on the rights of refugees to which the majority of the population first said no, so yes, after the Christian People's Party went into government. Realities have been adopted by the bulk population. The case today does not invite me to rematch. Secondly, the case concerns the necessary updates after the Storting's treatment of the case on the minimum pension level for age pensioners who depend on a spouse over 60 years, including the residence and residence of the spouse in Norway, as well as the consequences of the phase-out of the spouse supplement by 1 January 2025. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party point out that we voted against the phasing out of the marriage supplements, and that we said no to new rules requiring a stay in Norway before the legal scandal around Nav had been completed and the government, in line with its own statement in Stortinget, had been subject to the People's Security Act with a view to clarifying the requirements for a stay in Norway, having regard to EEA law. We're not going to fight it again, but we're going to refer it to Prop. 129 L for 2020-2021. The Committee suspects that there is a defect and that it should be Prop. 129 L for 2018-2019, on the requirement of residence and residence in Norway for the right to spouse and child allowances. The proposition to which the government refers is about the implementation of penalties in the event of an outbreak of a public infectious disease, hardly relevant to our case today. It would have been nice if the government could confirm that we're talking about Prop. 129 L for 2018–2019, not 2020–2021, so that it becomes just before the end of the century. The proposal for clarification in the Social Services Act on the right to treat all services by law, not just by individuals, has no comments on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e977	I would just like briefly to underline what the rapporteur said, that the proposal is the creation of the popular protection law as a consequence of the Storting's last majority decision on the matter. This concerns Chapters 1, 11, 12, 17 and 18, as a result of the repeal of the specific provisions for refugees in the People's Security Act with effect from 1 January 2021. I just want to stress why the Central Party went against that tightening up, a tightening up of the general requirement for living in the People's Security Act from three to five years, and the lifting of the exemption for refugees in terms of living requirements and 40 years of residence in order to achieve full rights in popular security. When we did that in the Central Party, it was because refugees are people who are on the run, they are people who have a very difficult life situation, they are people who come from countries that do not have an extended welfare system like ours, as opposed to those who come from more Western European countries, and it is therefore important that we have financial arrangements that can provide basic security for those people. If we don't have that basic protection, it's a severe weakening of the possibilities for good integration. Integration is related to a lot of things, but also to, of course, an economic basic insurance, so here we're talking about basic pension, here we're talking about important economic conditions for those who are most vulnerable. That is why the centre party voted against, but we then accept, as the case-in-law rapporteur, that the majority is of a different opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e984	The changes in the Law on Social Security and Social Services are, as was said here, not material changes, but only necessary changes, legislative changes. There is a clarification of the legal basis for the processing of personal data in the Social Services Act. I also record that the Committee's comments – in and of course also as the speeches before me here – relate to the previous consideration of the issues and not to the technical changes in the proposition itself. Otherwise, the representative of Christoffersen is right in pointing out errors.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e991	The rapporteur presented the matter in a good manner. It was also mentioned that it is not a wish now from the Workers' Party or the Centre to rematch any of the winnings received by the Advance Party, which is also the prelude to parts of this case, among other things. when the Party of Advancement was given the power to abolish the special advantages of the refugees in the fear of the people. What could have been interesting is whether both the Workers' Party and the Center's parties have an intention to seek to reverse it and reintroduce special advantages for refugees in the population. Is there anything about the Workers' Party and the Center Party now going to elections? I think it might be reasonable and good to tell you about it from the Great Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e998	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1015	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1032	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to seven lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1039	In line with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, the Government Decision of 16 December on the State budget for 2021 provided for the adjustment of the old-age pension during the payment of the social security allowance in 2021 by means of an average of wage and price increases, but not higher than the wage increase, and for the minimum level of the single pension to be increased by DKK 5000 from 1 July 2021. Both in the context of the rebalancing of the State budget for 2020 and in the context of the treatment of the Stortingen document 8:53 S for 2020-2021, several decisions were taken relating to pensions. This proposal explains how the budget decisions on pensions in 2021 and the request decisions of 18 December and 16 February will be followed up. Several of the decisions will need to be implemented in the context of the social security system in 2021 and will have budgetary implications in 2021. This requires the Stortinget to take the necessary decisions on increased appropriations before a pension can be paid in line with the decisions. The proposals for the implementation of the regulation of current pensions in 2021 do not mean that there are permanent changes to the regulatory regime, but that there is a temporary change that only applies to 2021. The Government will review the follow-up to the Storting’s request decision on permanent changes to the regulatory regime and return to Stortinget with legislative proposals. The majority of the Committee points out that permanent changes in the regulation of old-age pensions will have to take into account how this affects all parts of the legislation of the pension scheme. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, in writing to the Pensions Evaluation Committee, has made it clear that the sample is to examine a concrete proposal on how a permanent conversion of the age pension rules can be carried out, and also assess whether a change of approach suggests that other changes should be made to the pension system. The government asked the government to submit proposals for a regulatory framework to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in the context of annual social security schemes. The Government confirms in its proposal that this will be done in the follow-up to decision No. 622 for 2020-2021, re-conversion of the pension. Nevertheless, the majority of the Committee found that they would like the government to make the necessary proposals for regulatory action from the date of the establishment of social security schemes in 2021. The right and Christian People's Party did not support this, as the social security discussions of the year took place on 19 and 20 May. From this decision to be taken tomorrow, until the social security settlement is completed, it is very short time to develop new rules. We trust that the government would have followed this up in a good way without a new decision, but the decision has a majority in the committee. Let me end by referring to some good news. In recent years, the economy of the elderly has generally improved. From 2009 to 2019, according to the SSB, persons over 60 years of age had a real increase in income after tax of 17 p.m. In comparison, Norwegian households had a growth of 10 pst over the same period. So the elderly have had almost twice as high income growth as the general population. However, although income growth has not been as good for the elderly in recent years, the proportion of older people with low incomes has been greatly reduced. The share of sustained low income over three years has increased from 8.1 pst. to 10.1 pst. in the general population, while the corresponding proportion for persons over 67 years of age in the same period has decreased from 14.6 pst. to 8.9 pst. This means that older people are now less vulnerable to low incomes than the rest of the population. In particular, it is the very oldest that have improved the economy in recent years, and it was before the Storting made further changes, which are followed up by this proposition today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1056	Thanks to the President-in-Office for a thorough job, as always, now in a complicated matter concerning the follow-up of decisions by the government in budget 2021, the recent ageing of the budget 2020 and the decision of the Stortinge in the consideration of draft representatives No. 53, about pension. The Government has submitted proposals for the necessary additional appropriations for 2021 for the implementation of the Grand Duchy's request decisions. We are pleased to say that the Workers' Party has finally had an impact on its repeated proposals since 2016, that it is the Stortinget, not the government, which is to finalise the social security settlement. The Labour Party has since one protested against the unilateral decision of the State Councils of the Right and the Advance Party to stop presenting the settlements to the Storting. We have repeatedly been voted down by the Right and the Advance Party. Fortunately, both the government and the Progress Party have turned around. Finally, the Workers' Party has also had an impact on our repeated proposals since 2017 to change the regulatory rules for pensions during payment, from pay minus 0.75 pst. at the actual average wage and price. We have repeatedly been voted down by the Right and the Advance Party, but now, fortunately, the government and the Advance Party have turned around. We are also pleased that single minimum pensioners have received well-deserved supplements, as a result of the Workers' Party's repeated proposals since the state budget for 2016. We thank the Christian People's Party for adopting this, against the will of the Government and the Advance Party, but regret that what was the original proposal of the Workers' Party, in addition to all those with minimum benefits in social security – not just old-age pensioners, and not just lonely – did not get a majority. In this respect, we recall that our proposal on an additional NOK 4000 for 2020 was first voted down, including: by the Progress Party, and then it was adopted by the re-saturation of the State budget for 2020, but only as a non-permanent non-permanent one-off payment. But here, too, the Progress Party finally turned, when dealing with the representative proposal 53 S, so that the Labour Party's proposal was given a majority. On a proposal from the Workers' Party, a decision was taken to compensate for the social security settlement in 2020, which at that time was due to become another poor settlement for the pensioners, based on day-to-day regulatory principles, remuneration minus 0,75 pst. Only after the decision of the Storting did the final figures for wage developments come in 2020. In reality, the decision implies that new regulatory principles, which organisations have long requested, become applicable retrospectively from the social security settlement for 2020. Where the working party has not yet reached the stage, the pension requirement is from the first penny. There's a proper movement going on, but it'll take a long time before what should have been, for the longest time, a natural right for all employees, a pension from the first crown, becomes a reality. First in 2026, pension from the first heads is in place for everyone. So it doesn't happen in this big period, and neither in the next, if the Advance Party and the government get what they want. A change of government is necessary for the autumn in order to advance the matter. The right to negotiate for social security organisations has been a theme for a long time. The Labour Party took part in the decision taken to allow organisations to negotiate issues other than social security relating to annual social security schemes, following a better and more binding proposal from the Workers' Party. Our proposal was supported only by the Green, Red and SV Environmental Party. However, it is not entirely fair to sell the decision that was taken as a candidate for the right to negotiate. As regards the regulation of pensions, the principles shall continue to be regulated. The Government proposes that the decision should apply from next year, but the Workers' Party cannot see that there are formal obstacles to its entry into force from this year. At the end of the day, I just have a comment on the contribution from the case rapporteur, which refers to the high income growth of the older part of the population. We also owe it to note, as the SSB has shown, that these figures cover considerable differences between older people, and in particular the older people who have experienced the strongest income growth in just over 60 years of age. The SSB says that it is in fact related to the pension reform and the possibility of continuing to work and having income at the same time as taking out a pension. It's also important to bring it with you.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1075	First of all, I am addressing the proposals of which the Progress Party is part. I think it's okay, when we deal with this matter, to take a little look back at what it's really about. Ten years ago, the red-green government promoted the final proposal for pension reform. The size covered the pension reform and was finally adopted by all parties in this room, with the exception of the Progress Party. Then I have to say that when I hear the comments of the representative Lise Christoffersen, it seems that she may have forgotten that this is the result of the pension reform behind the Workers' Party. That is the result of the pension reform of the Workers' Party together with the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party promoted, and also, as Jens Stoltenberg himself has said, one of his greatest political victories. But why was the Advancement Party opposed? Well, that was for several reasons. One was that we were opposed to the country's pensioners having their pension subjugated every year. We have repeatedly made proposals to change it, but we have been voted down by the Centre Party, by the Labour Party and by the Government Parties. Unfortunately, it helps the pensioners very little that the good proposals of the Progress Party are being voted down. So we chose to look at how we've solved that kind of situation before, and then the Progress Party looked at the experience of the kindergarten agreement. That's why the Progress Party sat down with the Socialist Left Party and the Pensionist League and tried to think again, to figure out what was going on in order to be able to move, in order to improve the situation of the country's pensioners. As a result, the Progress Party and the Socialist Left promoted a joint proposal for a representative, which is the reason for the matter we are dealing with here today. That representative proposal had many good proposals in it, and there were also several good proposals at the plenary session. Fortunately, we got an impact on several important points, including: abolishing under-regulation of 0,75 and ensuring that the pensioner of the country is more able to regulate his pension with the average wage and price increase. But unfortunately, where we did not get a majority, we were discouraged from raising the country's minimum pensioners up to the poverty line. Incredibly, it chose the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the government parties to vote against. They therefore think it is right that the country's smallest pensioners live below the poverty line – far below the poverty line. We disagree. The matter we are now dealing with is the follow-up to the decisions that Stortinget finally made. And it's not acceptable that the government then tries to re-examine what the Storting has decided, and also the clear instructions and intentions of the Stortinget. I have to remind the government that it is a minority government, and it has to deal with the Storting. As regards decisions on a new regulatory mechanism, it is obvious that correct and as up-to-date figures are used as possible — not assumptions and forecasts about wage growth and price growth at that time. Now that we have real numbers, of course they're going to be used. The clear intention of the size was also that the average wage and price growth must first be calculated on the basis of the best estimates for 2021, i.e. this year, and then the deviation from 2020, when it was an important premise for the winner The Progress Party, together with the Socialist Left, was given that this should have retroactive effect from 2020. I had then assumed that the Stortinget was today ready to give the government a clear march ground to actually follow up the Stortingen decision. The centre party and the Workers' Party wrote in their comments that they noticed that the Pensioners' Association disagreed with this, but it does not seem to the country's pensioners to notice anything. In fact, we must support the proposals and vote in favour of the proposal today by the Progress Party and the Socialist Left. The country's pensioners deserve propriety, and when, after a long struggle, the Stortinget finally takes a decision on a propriety promise for the country's pensioners, I also expect the Centre Party and the Workers' Party not to run away from this, but to provide the majority in voting on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1100	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1105	This is the follow-up to previous pension decisions and there is a need to repeat the main pillars of the Central Party. We are in favour of negotiating rights with pensioners' organisations. We are in favour of a regulation of current pensions during payment, as an average of prices and wages both when there are real wage improvements, and when there is a real wage decrease. We go in to increase the minimum pensions by a further step-up plan for the minimum pensions. We are in favour of social security spending being presented as a matter of its own to the Stortingen in the spring session, and that the pension stoppage is financed through the miscellaneous item of the state budget, as we have done up to and including 2015. We are confident that pensioners’ organisations will have room in the Technical Calculation Committee, where one will arrive at the common data used in both retirement and wage negotiations. And we're going into quarterly meetings between pensioners' organizations and the government. Finally, we fully support the fact that we are going to have a first-aid pension in the private and public sectors, and we are going in to get rid of the coordination formula, which involves coordination of public service pensions and social security, which means that employees of the public sector who are in employment for 72–73 years are getting their entire public service pension coordinated – fundamentally incorrect, according to our assessment. The Party referred to its proposal, which reads as follows: ‘The government requests a calculation method for pension regulation in 2021 and compensation for 2020 based on actual figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for income statement and not on old estimates’.» [[TBU]] Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and SV, has the support of the Centre Party. What does that mean? Well, that means we have to keep track of a set-off between budgeted figures and accounting figures for wage and price growth. The recalculation for 2020 means that according to the budget, the wage growth was 1.7 p.m., while on the accounting figures it was 3.1 p.m. And if we take 3.1 pst. minus the subtraction of 0.75, we get 2.35. If we subtract from what was budgeted, that's 1.7, minus 0.75, we get 0.95. The difference between 2.35 pst. and 0.95 pst. is 1.4 pst. 1.4 pst will then be the backlog for 2020. The government bombed the salary growth in 2020, a assumed 1.7 pst., and then it became a total of 3.1 pst. This applies to the new principles of average wage growth and price growth with the maximum wage growth supported by the government and the Progress Party, and it is now in 2021 at 2.7 pst. If we add 2.7 pst. Plus 1.4 pst, we get 4.1 pst. And that's the supplement for the pensioners on an annual basis. And since the supplement is given only from 1 May, the supplement from 1 May will have to be larger. Decision 618, which is also referred to here, states: ‘The government is asked to submit regulatory proposals to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in the context of annual social security schemes.’ – then from 2021. The centre party is in favour of it, that's an important point, and here the government must see the possibilities – the possibilities of involving pensioners' organisations more as a more active partner in the non-profit sector, so that we can get a better interaction between pensioners and the public in order to solve a range of welfare tasks. It is very, very important that one stimulates it as part of the retirement stoppage. In the end, I just want to say that this case has gone under a hurry that borders on the irresponsible. The final deadline for policy in this case was April 15 for the Committee, and then we get a letter from the Council of State to the Labour and Social Committee of the European Parliament of April 16, i.e. the next day. We're not going to have it like that. But we assume, of course, that the social security schemes in 2021 are carried out in line with the leadership of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1130	After quite a long time – half a year I would say – with lots of coffee cups and good conversations, meetings and good cooperation with the Progress Party, I would have thought that the Progress Party and committee leader Erlend Wiborg had learned how it was actually with the pension reform in its time. We have also been some of the last year in connection with previous treatment of matters relating to pensions, that both of our parties in their time were opposed to the pension reform, but have committed themselves to the pension reform once we have joined the government. That's how it was, and I think it's time to stop waving their feathers about that right there. This case is about, and will result in, a more decent regulation model for the pension list. For several years, pensioners have suffered under a system that has led to underregulation of pension lists due to low wage settlements. Now we get the final movement in this system after a long press, in a more fair direction. SV and the Progress Party moved down from their primary position on the regulation of pensions, just to put an end to the very unfair underregulation. What was agreed was actually average wage and price growth. Then I have to say it is disappointing to see that the government is adding a regulation based on what would have been the result if one already last year was regulated with average wage and price increases on the estimates that were then. Here I must point out that in the rules for regulating pensions there are adjustments for overhangs from the previous year. This is normal practice every year, so I do not understand why the government is making itself so difficult at this point, now that we know what was actually the wage and price increase last year. So we're behind a suggestion in the case that says: ‘The government requests a calculation method for pension regulation in 2021 and compensation for 2020 based on actual figures from the Technical Calculation Committee for income statement and not on old estimates’.» [[TBU]] I also hope that the other party will carefully consider this proposal and vote in favour of it, so that is what is agreed. Another proposal for which a majority was made in the context of the examination of Documents 8:53 S for 2020-2021 was this: ‘The government is asked to submit regulatory proposals to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in the context of annual social security schemes.’ That proposal chooses the government to postpone the follow-up. It is difficult to see that the reason is something other than the training of the case. It could not have been such a complicated matter that this could not have been done in the social security decision of the year. The plurality of the Committee has therefore gathered against the government and requests that this be implemented for the social security settlement of the year. With that I recommend the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1153	Red jobs to ensure that people’s rights are the pillars of the welfare state, and that pensions and benefits ensure financial security for all, regardless of gender, class or health status. However, pension reform is in complete violation of the principles underlying the thinking behind the backlog. Instead, it helps to shift the risk away from the community to the individual, leading to even greater differences in the future. We should take care of those who, after a long work life, do not have the health to work until they are 67 years old, but now those who can stand longer are rewarded with a golden pension. If you, for example, is a professor, or maybe a pastor or a politician, and if you can work until you reach the age of 70, you will become a pension winner. But for most people, the system will turn negative, and it will get worse in the years to come. The SSB reports show that pension assets are broken down into different occupational groups. There will be major differences if nothing is corrected in the current pension scheme. People have to work longer to earn a pension they can live on. The system will push quite a number of people into work longer than they really can handle. Many people have professions where it would not be safe to work beyond the age of 67, because their knees or backs will not be able to cope with such a burden over even more working years. With this life-style adjustment of pensions, people will have to work longer in order to achieve 66 pst, i.e. two-thirds, of their pension income. This will lead to more minimum pensioners in the future. Anyone who is a minimum pensioner today knows that this is nothing special to look for, to say it like that. We give too little back to the pensioners in our country, we mean. Minimum pensions must rise, and there must be a fair pension system to replace what we have today. Those who are disabled are hit even harder by the system. Before, you could earn a pension until you turned 67, but now, when you turn 61, your income stops. As a result, many disabled people will receive an old-age pension that will be down to a minimum pension level. If you get exhausted and you have to go out of the first few years after age 62, you're going to get an age pension at the minimum pension level, with a few thousand more dollars a month. This applies not only to those who have the lowest wages but also to many who currently have income around average wages in Norway. Red wants a fairer pension system, and we are voting for proposals that can improve the current one. We will vote in favour of the proposal to abolish the underregulation of pensions and replace it with the average of wage and price increases. It's urgent. As UNIO has calculated, the pensioners have already lost over 8 billion. as a result of this under the civil government, or 9 000 kroner on average per pensioner. That's a lot of money. There has been an impression in Norway that we cannot afford pensions to keep up with wage developments and that, as we can see, everyone can get a decent old age. That impression is wrong. It is about being able to distribute the funds on which the community sits and ensuring that everyone can be involved in future developments. It is not fair for workers to become the losers of the current pension system and to be able to cope with an ever-indebtedly low income. What's needed is a change in the pension system, so we don't punish those who have a job where they wear their health down and have to get rid of pensions earlier than those who have a maybe less physically hard job over many years. Justice in the pension system, it works Red for, and we will also work for that after the election. But here and now we will be in favour of the improvements contained in the majority and support them in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1172	In the proposal under consideration today, the government makes proposals for changes to the State budget of 2021 under the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the follow-up to the pension application decision. In line with the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties and the Progress Party, the Government Decision of 16 December on the State budget for 2021 provided for the adjustment of the old-age pension during the payment of the social security allowance in 2021 by means of an average of wage and price increases, but not higher than the wage increase, and for the minimum level of the single pension to be increased by DKK 5000 from 1 July 2021. In the context of the review of the rebalancing of the State budget for 2020, the Stortinget adopted Decision 525 on 18 December 2020, where the Stortinget requested the Government to submit proposals as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of 1st quarter 2021 on a one-off increase of DKK 4000 at the minimum pension level for single pensioners in 2020. For the purposes of the examination by the Stortinget of Document 8:53 S for 2020-2021, see: Inner. 221 S for 2020-2021, adopted on 16 February 2021 ten requests, Decisions 615-624. The Government explains in its proposal how the budget decisions on pensions in 2021 and the request decisions of 18 December and 16 February will be followed up. Several of the decisions will be implemented in the context of the social security scheme of 2021 and have budgetary implications in 2021. This therefore requires the Storting to take the necessary decisions on increased appropriations before a pension can be paid in line with the decisions. I point out that the majority of the Committee – Right, Workers’ Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party – supports the government’s proposal for funding. The Government has followed up the amended regulation decision in 2021 and the regulation compensation decision in 2020 by proposing amendments to Regulation No 6 May 2011. 465 on the calculation of the salary increase to be used for the regulation of the basic amount and the old-age pension in social security. The specific provision for the regulation of pensions in 2021 provides that the rules shall apply to old-age pensions from social security and to benefits from public service pension schemes currently regulated by a deduction of 0,75 p.m. The government’s proposal to implement the regulation of current pensions in 2021 does not mean that permanent changes are made to the regulatory rules, but is a temporary change that only applies to 2021. I would like to point out that in the setting there seems to be some misunderstandings about whether the government will follow up Decision 622 of the Stortinget, where the government is asked to submit a bill to the Storinget to regulate current pensions with the average price and salary increase, which will take effect from 2022. I stress that the government will of course follow up this decision, which is no doubt in Prop. 126 S. What's pointed out in Prop. 126 S, is that regulation rules are changed before you know how to adapt the other elements of the pension scheme. The rules for withdrawals of pensions from 2022 until the proposal of the Evaluation Committee may be adopted and implemented, but they will no longer be neutral for the time of withdrawal. It will therefore be necessary to return to Stortinget after the selection has delivered its opinion, with proposals for possible adjustments to the legislation that may reintroduce neutral withdrawal rules. I note that the majority of the Committee makes the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to ensure that Decision No. 618 shall apply with effect from and with effect from the social security establishment of 2021.’;» Decision 618 reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit regulatory proposals to enable organisations to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners in the context of annual social security schemes.’ That's because of Prop. 126 S that the government will make proposals for such a regulation in the autumn of 2021, based on the previous decision, not after the conclusion of the evaluation committee. I am referring to the fact that regulation requires a formal process in advance, and it will not be possible to implement it now, before the year's social security discussions on 19 and 20 May. Nevertheless, the government will follow up the decision, and we will facilitate the involvement of organisations in this year's social security discussions with other issues relevant to pensioners. In its position on the Committee's proposal for a representative of the Progress Party and the SV, the Labour Party members of the Committee felt that the Stortinget should set an amount of between 150 and 200 million. which could be offered for negotiation as an addition to that resulting from the annual pension scheme framework. A proposal was made for a regulatory decision to allow organisations to negotiate other issues outside the framework of the pension agreement and where any budgetary implications are assumed to be incorporated into the revised budget. That proposal did not receive a majority in Stortinget, and Stortinget has not given a pot of money to negotiate. I would also point out – at the end – that an overall committee pointed out in the vote on the proposal for a representative from the Progress Party and the SV that the tradition of broad reconciliation and thorough investigations and changes in the pension system should be continued. That's what I'm going to end up with. Finally, a public consultation round for public pension providers was also necessary. That consultation round was completed on 8 April, and I think it was right after that consultation round to inform the Storting about the relevant information regarding a matter they still had to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1217	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1222	In the proposal, the Council of State proposes the necessary additional appropriations for 2021 of 731 million. kr as a result of the Enlargement's decision to increase pensions. These figures build, among other things: on the Storting decision to provide compensation for the social security settlement in 2020 based on the new regulatory principles adopted by the Storting. On 16 April 2021, the Council of State sent a letter to the Committee referring to the minority proposals of the Party of Progress and the SV in the present case, and that the actual average of the salary and price used for this compensation would not lead to double compensation, the estimates for the settlement in 2020. What does the Council of State estimate that it would require additional appropriations for 2021, in addition to what is now proposed by the Government, if that proposal by the Progress Party and the SV were to receive a majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1229	On the standing foot I don't have that number. I have to admit that I am not quite sure if we have informed Stortinget about this either, if there is any question about it. But it's quite correct the understanding that the representative of Christoffersen uses, that in my opinion, this would mean a double compensation, because it is first proposed to compensate for the whole deviation between actual and estimated wage growth in the regulation for 2021, as well as the actual wage growth in the compensation for 2020. This means a double correction/compensation for the difference between the actual estimated price growth for 2020 and, therefore, the increase in pensions is higher than that decided by the size factor, namely the average wage and price growth, and the assumption that this was the case in 2020. But unfortunately I don't have that amount at hand right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1234	I thank you for the answer, but maybe we can get that number in a different way. After all, we are now getting social security settled for treatment before the Storting goes apart. But I have another question. In the case, the government has proposed that new regulatory principles apply to the age pension of the population and to public occupational pensions in the course of payment. In the letter to the Committee, the Council of State refers to hearing opinions from several employee organisations on the importance of consistency in the pension system, with equal rules for regulation in all pension schemes. I believe that the Council of State also agrees with that, and that it is only about a lack of time and not a lack of will that not all arrangements are on the preliminary stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1241	Basically, as Christoffersen's representative says, there are good arguments for the best possible non-discrimination, and it has also been based on the time of the original pension agreement. Then there may be individual issues that we need to consider in more detail, but essentially what we have also laid down here is that public service pensions should also be subject to the same regulatory principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1246	Decision No 622 applies to grossing-up decisions. Last year already asked the Progress Party and SV for legal assistance from the government to change the law so that you could eliminate the underregulation of 0.75 p.m. and replace it with an average of the wage and price increases. It was difficult for the government. But again, the decision of the Storting was very clear that this will take effect from 2022, and that the government will present a bill to the Stortinget so that it can take effect from 2022. When the pension commission has a deadline of 1 March, if I do not remember completely wrong, will the State Council then be able to present a case that the Storting will deal with before the social security settlement in 2022?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1251	This I affected, not only affected, but I said something about it in my post. Let me just say first: it is absolutely right that the operationalisation of the underregulation of pensions should replace today's 0.75 with a new underregulation – so we have to be honest with pensioners most – with an average of the price and wage increases. It is also quite right, as the representative says, that we have said that this will apply from 2021, and there will also be changes in 2022. We want to be able to put these changes ahead of the Storting, and, as I said in my post, what we're going to do is put forward a change in the law to the new regulatory model, without having a full overview of how this affects the rest of the pension system in terms of neutrality at the time of withdrawal. This is something you may have to come back to after the pension commission has done its job. Here I think it might be evident in the remarks that there has been a misunderstanding, because this is what the government intends to follow up, as we have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1262	It wasn't a misunderstanding. It was a matter of feeling that the government had no intention of following up the Storting decision and intention as the Storting actually decided. Both the Council of State and his party trap Nordby Lunde were quite clear in their speeches on their initial resistance or scepticism to many of the improvements that have now been made for the country's pensioners. Politics is about prioritizing, it's raised above any doubt, but it could be interesting if the Council of State could answer the following: an average minimum pensioner today has probably about. 205 000 kroner, while the government has stated that if you are an EEA citizen, you can be compensated by 420 000 kroner a year. The Council of State sees it as a good thing that Norwegian minimum pensioners should make up for 205000 kroner, while for example: a rumen resident in Romania will receive SEK 420 000?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1269	If we were just sending off the farm NOK 420,000 to a random roomer in Romania, it would be absurd, to say it carefully. The only relevant thing in this comparison is, if you can allow yourself to rephrase the question: does the Council of State consider it reasonable that a beneficiary of a daily allowance, for example, is paid 400000 kroner in daily allowances, or 350000, or 405000, while a minimum pensioner receives a little more than 200000 kroner? That's exactly the same question that's at stake, and that's: do we want to have benefits that reflect earnings in the world of work? That's the central question. If you don't want to, I think it's what I might call a more socialist system in the old days, because it would be powerful, strongly disdistributive. That would mean – and I don't think the representative of the Progress Party will, either – that the wages you had earned through a long life in the world of work were to be reflected in pensions, or that it should be reflected in daily allowances. I mean, both of them are right. We've also been involved in raising the minimum pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1276	I assume that the Council of State will follow up the proposal – if it gets a majority tomorrow – of the Central Party, the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Swedish Government on the decision No. 618 apply from the date of the social security settlement in 2021 to negotiate other issues relevant to pensioners. But my question is related to that with regulatory principles. These are old regulatory principles and there are new regulatory principles. The old regulatory principle that we have to maintain is that we are imagining between budgeted figures for wage and price growth and accounting figures for wage and price growth. And then, in addition, we've got the new principle of average wage and price growth, which, as the Council of State says precisely, only applies in times of rise and not in times of decline, because there's a ceiling on wage growth. But when we calculate the way that I'm now saying, it's going to be a sum of 1.4 pst. in back-up and 2,7 pst. in the front layer – 4,1 pst. – while the government says 3.74 pst. Can the Council explain the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1283	First, I'm not sure if I understand all the premises in the question of Lundteg – at least I'm not going to go into this number discussion. What we're doing this year is how this new regulation will work. That is, you don't take the government's starting point, as I heard someone say, but in the Technical Calculation Committee's calculation for salary growth. It comes under the revised budget. And then you take that into account. But pensioners will never lose if wages and salaries increase or the price increase changes. It will then be compensated for in the following year. The discussion in this context is simply about that we've done it that way. It is a system that can also be continued. We believe that the alternative way that, among other things, The pensioner's union has outlined, would involve a double compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1289	I don't understand what the council says here about the pensioners demanding a double compensation. Because what they're doing is one for 2021 uses the front, that's 2.7 pst. – that is what I expect the Council of State to agree on – and then it is the recalculation of what was in 2020, and it is set against what was budgeted figures, versus what was accounting figures. It is quite correct that the accounting figures come with the Technical Calculation Committee and they have come with a number of 3.1 pst. And then the budget was 1.7 pst. So the difference is going to be 1.4 pst. And 1.4 pst. plus the front level of 2.7 pst. is 4.1 pst. That's how I understood the Pensionist League's demands, and it supports the Center Party. The government is operating on 3.74 pst. on an equivalent calculation. I don't understand how the government will come to that. I hope the Council of State has an overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1294	So as I understand it, the Pensioners' Association first proposes that we compensate for the deviation of the actual estimated wage increase in the 2021 regulation, i.e. the 2020 deviation, which would normally be. In addition, they propose that actual wage growth should be used as a basis for compensation in 2020. That's what, in our opinion, becomes a double compensation. But then it's like next to it is also in our model, which, of course, is what gets the majority now, the decision of the Storting at the bottom and at the bottom. This means that pensioners will be compensated in 2020 as if there were another regulatory regime then.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1301	In the context of the examination of the representative proposal 53 S, there was a number of cases in which organisations could negotiate other issues relevant to the pension list in the annual social security procedures. This does not follow the government of this game. Why is that? Now it looks like there's going to be multiples for this again, clarifying that it's going to apply to the social security bill of the year. Does the Council of State see that he has wasted valuable preparation time on himself and his employees trying to jump over the decision that had already been made in connection with this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1306	The representative Lundteigen believed that the government had had unreasonable deadlines, while the representative Lerbreck believes that we have trained. Here the Stortinget has made quite large and comprehensive decisions, to which the government parties have also joined, which are partly complicated. It is important to avoid unintended consequences, of which there may also be many, cf. the issue of public service pension, for example, which is not explicitly mentioned – as far as I remember – in the Storting decision, which will be implemented in a short time. We have always been clear that we are going to implement the Storting decision, but the Stortinget has also said that we should move the pension accounts to the spring. We have proposed that the rules should be put in place by 2021. What we're saying is that we can't do it now, in just under two and a half weeks, with the demands that should be for both publicity, consultation rounds and proper processes, even if this work has been started. But we need to ensure that this year's process is also carried out in line with the wishes of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1313	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1320	Just a few things that have been taken up during the debate. First, I want to give support to the representative Lerbreck. It is quite right, as she says, that both the Progress Party and the SV were opposed to the pension reform initially, but both parties, when they joined the government, actually committed themselves to follow up the pension settlement. I also think that the representative, Mr Wiborg, should be so honest. Then the representative of Wiborg shows that they had been voted down to raise the minimum pensions up to the poverty line. Then I would like to remind you again that it was the Workers' Party that started the escalation we have had from 2016 until now of the minimum pensions. It was against the votes of the Progress Party as long as the Advance Party sat in government. And then, of course, the Progress Party can make itself tall and dark now, when you're out of it you've perceived as perhaps a little political prison. But then I wonder, how wise is it to vote on a party that does one thing when they have the power to change, and another thing when they are in opposition and have no power to change? So I would like to remind you that the Progress Party itself has said that what they have proposed of stepping up for minimum pensioners, only applies to old people's fear. They have not said one word about what they think about those who have a guarantee pension. The Labour Party has voted in favour of an assessment of what is a reasonable minimum level of social security, taking into account all other living conditions components that are not part of the EU's poverty targets, such as reduced self-esteem, discounts on collective tickets, etc. Nor has the Progress Party answered the innumerable questions of how many new zero-pensioners we are going to accept in social security. All of this has to be seen in a context. The Progress Party has not said anything about this either: the 1954 coal is 67 this year, so is the raising of minimum pensions from the point of view of the Progress Party just, I was saying, a little bluff, which is to be gradually built down towards the annual coal that was born in 1963? We don't know anything about that either. With regard to the rounds that have now been on compensation for the settlement in 2020, I think it is very strange if the Progress Party believes that that compensation should be taken twice, but has not added money to it. Because that doesn't go within the 731 million. kr. But as I said earlier, we get the opportunity to get back to it in connection with the social security scheme for 2021. Then we can get those numbers on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1335	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1352	At the request of the Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. In addition, within the allocated speaking time, up to five rows of replies will be given after contributions from members of the government, and those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1359	On a proposal from the Progress Party, the Stortinget adopted in February: ‘The government requests the introduction of a temporary holiday allowance entitlement for daily allowances received in 2020 and 2021 for payments in the summer of 2021 and 2022 respectively.’ The decision itself is taken, but today we are formally considering the decision to grant. The Government has included in its proposal a framework for the decision taken by the Stortinget, and on the basis of its proposal for a decision. When Stortinget made its decision, some assumptions were made, and it was that those who had the right to retain the daily allowance and were still going to take a vacation were to keep the daily allowance instead of getting the holiday money. This would also be more profitable for the individual in most cases. The second premise was to use 10.2 pst. earning and not 9,5 pst. vesting, which was in the old scheme. The government has then made use of several limitations, which are that you should only be able to receive holiday pay for daily allowances earned in the period April to December, you must have received daily allowances for at least eight weeks, and the maximum payment is NOK 25 000. I expect that the government parties themselves will further argue for their views during the debate, and I will then move on to the view of the Progress Party. When the Progress Party adopted its proposal, it was about helping a group of people who have really worn out financially, by being out of work or out of work for shorter or longer periods of time – it is in a labour market that is quite different from what it is in a normal situation. We risked a large group of people standing completely without income this summer. The Progress Party could not accept this, and that is why we proposed this arrangement. The fact that the government is now trying to rematch and believes that a group that has had it tough economically should get it even tougher is not acceptable. The Progress Party is therefore proposing today that those who have been licensed should have exactly the same model as the rest of society, without maximum limits and without the petty red-green cut from 10.2 pst. to 9.5 pst. etc. We have calculated what the cost will be with our proposal, and that's not a deterrent number. That's also why we're putting it in as our proposal for a budget decision today. Now it's about helping those who have really marked the pandemic's consequences on the wallet, people who have used up their potential savings, who have been on leave or unemployed for a long time. That the Stortinget will then have a big debate and a draw on whether to introduce the maximum limit of NOK 25 000, which not other groups have to say that if you received the daily allowance in February or March, no, then you should not get the holiday money, that is only the daily allowance you received between April and December, I think it is special. The Progress Party has also today presented – although this is a consequence of the proposal we have in the vote – several so-called loose proposals, which I also raise. I would also encourage the parties now to actually go in and vote for what they are for, and against what they are against. Do you really want to set a maximum limit? Or do you really want, like the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV to join with the government parties that those who have been unemployed for less than eight weeks will not get anything? I think it's very special and look forward to hearing the argument from the government parties, SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party as to why they should not get anything. I would also like to hear the argument as to why people who have been unemployed or on leave are getting a lower rate than the rest of society. I look forward to having a debate on that. Fortunately, the government is proposing to follow the same rate as the Progress Party used in its proposal. Today, I urge the Stortinget to stop these petty cuts that the government parties, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left are proposing to the marginalised and unemployed, and rather to help a group that is really struggling financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1381	The representative of Erlend Wiborg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1386	Getting a permit or unemployment is demanding. Therefore, it is important that there is a safety net for those affected and that it is predictable how the economy is going to be. The holiday supplement on daily pay is part of this safety net – a part that the civil parties have repeatedly removed and that we have repeatedly proposed in the Workers' Party. One who has been unemployed for a long time, then to return to work in a company that has a summer break, will risk having to go one month without income. The same will happen if the kindergartens and the SFO are closed during the holiday months, if you do not have grandparents or others who can stand as babysitting if your employer would find work for you. For the Workers' Party, this is unreasonable. We have a safety net to compensate for loss of income, and holiday pay is part of pay. Therefore, it is reasonable that compensation should also be granted for the loss of the holiday money. After making it a fixed rule to vote against this holiday supplement on daily allowances and referred to it as ‘ko-ko’ and an irresponsible way to spend the country’s money, the government parties have now come to have one ‘ko-ko’ removed in their ‘ko-ko’, not permanently, but for two years. An argument against the scheme removed by the government in 2014 has been that some can get double, both holiday money and day money. But now we get a proposition from the government that describes that the arrangement that is being presented now also gives it the possibility. With two different schemes, there is a lot of uncertainty about which schemes apply. Those who have been on a daily allowance for a short time will be relatively better off than those who have spent a long time on a daily allowance. The Government's proposals shall also not apply to daily allowances paid in January, February and March. This means that those who have been unemployed for a long time are paid less than with our proposal. The government's proposal is not a permanent legislative amendment, it shall only apply for two years. So it's going to be a corona supplement, not a holiday supplement. And even if the government suggests that the rate should be 0.7 pst. higher than in the old scheme, it eats up the improvement too many because the payment is limited to NOK 25 000. For as it says in the proposition from the government: ‘Without such a limit, the maximum amount could be approximately NOK 33 000 [[...]] Yeah, think about it. One who has been on a daily allowance since April could get NOK 7 000 more. Clearly, soberness is important. But such limitations are not for those who benefit from dividends and high management wages, and receive compensation from the government for their additional expenses. This says everything about how the government thinks, and why the differences in Norway are increasing. The Labour Party has intended and continues to believe that paid holiday pay is to provide a holiday allowance, as is the system for employees. The Norwegian system is that you do not get paid annual pay in twelve parts, you get paid in eleven months, and then you get holiday pay in addition. When it comes to compensating for the loss of income, it is quite natural that you also receive a holiday allowance supplement from the day-to-day allowance. And when the rate is a little bit lower, it's because we have a system in Norway where the rates for those who go on unemployment benefits are slightly lower than what you get when you get full pay. I am pleased that the Workers' Party, the Senter Party and the SV are firmly committed to the old system, that it is the best. That is why we are tabling a proposal to cover the costs of reintroducing the scheme in force before the Solberg Government has removed it. That means 350 million. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for your excellent report. It sounds like $350 million to the Progress Party. NOK does not matter, but NOK 350 million. kr means a lot to the unemployed. That is why our proposal is better, and that is why I encourage the parties to support the advice available in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1408	The holiday pay scheme is perhaps one of the most popular schemes we have in Norway, but it seems like we have forgotten a little bit about why we have it and how it works. In the workplace, holiday pay is the employee's own money, which is coerced by the employer holding back a little of the salary each month of the savings year, and then pays off the related holiday the following year. Holiday pay is part of the salary you have worked for. Therefore, there is no maximum limit or derogation in eight weeks. This is part of the wage and salary of employees. The unemployed, on the other hand, receive daily benefits as a temporary income insurance scheme while applying for a job. They were not paid a day's allowance to get it paid as a holiday allowance, but they had previously received a holiday allowance after payment. The holiday supplement, which the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV want to re-enter, was paid in January/February of the year after the day-to-day allowance recipient had been unemployed. So there's a difference between employees who get 10.2 pst. of its own salary and a holiday supplement granted over the State budget. It also turned out that in 80 pst. Of these cases, the recipient was back to work when they received the holiday supplement. This was one reason why the Right supported the removal of the holiday supplement in 2015, when then Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party proposed this. In fact, we believe that unemployed people should be mainly active jobseekers until they get a new job, and that holiday pay should be paid for workers who save themselves. I fully agree with those who believe that this shows the difference in policy priorities, because I sincerely believe that 3.2 billion. kr, which costs the full reintroduction of the holiday supplement, can be better used by the taxpayers, who will then be able to keep 3.2 billion. kr of their money itself, or they can be spent on more health, more care or other good public services, rather than giving unemployed people vacations from applying for a job. But when that is said, it is absolutely right that we believe that the last year has been a state of emergency, where the labour market has been out of play and hundreds of thousands have been out of leave. Many workers will spend the summer in a situation where they have little or no holiday money earned from last year. This was the background to the fact that the Right also considered that a temporary holiday pay scheme related to the coronary situation was reasonable. The government's proposal, which we are taking up and supporting, is affecting this in a similar way to that of the previous scheme, i.e. that it is given only to those who have received daily allowances for at least eight weeks during the calculation period, at the same time focusing on those affected by the Korona measures, by setting the 2020 calculation period from April to December. Most people who are then excluded from the scheme will already have significant holiday pay from the employer. In the old holiday supplement scheme, the recipient received 9,5 pst. of gross daily benefits paid, in the previous calendar year. This scheme was also limited to those who had received daily allowances for at least eight weeks of the previous year. We see no reason why the temporary scheme cannot also be implemented in the same way, especially when we increase the holiday supplement to 10.2 pst. Finally, I would like to remind you that the holiday pay of employees is their own salary, which is withheld by the employer in some form of forced saving. It's the employee's own money. On the other hand, the holiday supplement for day-care recipients is paid by ordinary people in work and their jobs through tax. The right considers that it was right to remove the holiday supplement in 2015 and that it would be wrong now to reintroduce or increase a temporary supplement paid by an already heavily charged Norwegian business. The most important thing we can do for the unemployed and on leave is to get Norwegian businesses and jobs started, so that they actually get a job to go to, not burden the same companies on paying for vacations to the unemployed. I think that in the worst case, more people could risk becoming unemployed any longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1425	The representative Heidi Nordby Lunde has drawn up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1430	The Stortinget hardly has a representative who makes as many false claims as the representative Wiborg. It seems that the representative Wiborg has no limits to raising his own positions. It is a fact that holiday money on daily pay was taken away when the Progress Party put in government with the Advance Party Council Robert Eriksson. It is a fact that it is Wiborg who is the case rapporteur for this matter, and he has every opportunity to do a good job, he has every opportunity to make all the necessary proposals for the whole committee and for himself, and then we experience that we get six loose proposals in the Chamber just from the representative Wiborg. The representative, Heidi Nordby Lunde, says that holiday money is the individual employee's own money. That's right. And so, when you don't have a job, when you don't have a job because you've become unemployed, you've been outsourced? Yeah, we're lucky to have a safety net called day money. So the question is, how well should the safety net be? Should the safety net be such that if you have gone for a long period of time and then come to work, you should be in a situation where you do not have holiday money? That's the reality people are in, and that's the reality the opposition, with SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party, wants to straighten out – as it was before the Progress Party destroyed it. It is also obvious that when we give holiday money on a daily basis, that is to say, the real value of the daily allowance is approx. 10 pst. higher. So it's going to be a better performance. Yeah, that's something we've figured out a long time ago. That's something we see as right, which we consider necessary to ensure an income balance. We then follow up on the proposals made by the government, and in addition we have proposals that involve a cost of 750 million. kr more than the government proposes, because we want a better system. We have proposals that are far better than the proposals of the Progress Party. It's nice to hear from the representative Wiborg who's proposing 2.1 billion. kr, while the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV have 2,450 billion. kr. It should be thought that the proposals of the Progress Party were more expensive, but they are cheaper. Nevertheless, it is presented as something that is far, far better than what the Centre Party, the Working Party and SV stand for. No, this case is particularly typical of the Progress Party. I'm later told that they continue that way of informing the Norwegian people, because it's a way of showing up that over time won't give confidence. And if this is the new line for the upcoming new party leader Listhaug, it's not going to be okay with the Progress Party. This is my reverent claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1445	My friend Jason, who's been in Color Line, has been on the perm for a very long time – ever since the beginning of the pandemic. His wife is a daily manager at a gas station and does not have an income that can cover his loss of income. This couple are parents of twins 3 years old who go to kindergarten. I want to ask if others here can see how this family is doing with its private economy this year. Just think if these twins were three years older and went to school. It would have made their economy in the situation they're in, a little bit easier. We're not going to discuss the free SFO and kindergarten prices now, but I'm saying this to remind you how much expenses children's families have – and especially how difficult this becomes with two rather low incomes when the one, or both, is permitted over longer periods. The least we should do for all the country's parents and all the others who have been very long on leave, is give a chance for a little less trouble now this summer. SV has always said that it was wrong for the government to take away the holiday money for the unemployed, and it is not difficult to see that this year means an extra amount for people. The government has been willing to accept money for business, but for the individual it is equally bad whether the employer goes bankrupt or whether it is the family that goes bankrupt. The house probably has to be sold anyway. Color Line has had many crises, but it doesn't help Jason and his family until the pandemic is over and people can travel to Denmark again, so he can work. Now the usual people are on their way, and therefore we are behind the proposals in this setting that cost the most, and that will give the most holiday money to those who have been licensed the longest. It's just supposed to be missing. My message to the Progress Party and the government is that in any case, there will be nothing specific to anything other than the repayment of credit and perhaps a trip to the zoo with the family. Our suggestion is not to throw money at people, but it will help many significantly so that they can keep their heads above the water through the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1460	Many workers have felt that they are out of work in whole or in part under the pandemic, with reduced income in the form of daily allowances. The Christian People's Party believes that today's system of entitlement to holiday with long-term unemployment allowance is a good solution under current circumstances. This scheme is much more accurate than the previous plugin. When the opposition lacks the old holiday supplement of 9.5 pst. of the gross daily allowance paid, this was a pure supplement which came up on the daily allowance. When a person compares to a worker who tidys up holiday money by 10.2 pst. of gross wages and salaries, the employer is holding back this amount of wages and salaries of employees. The system of long-term leave for full-time workers without being real job seekers is seen as a good system for long-term unemployed people to take a break in their search for new jobs. The pandemic is going to stretch further in time than many of us could imagine a year ago. There are consequences for many who have been unemployed or on leave for less than 52 weeks, or who are back in work before 52 weeks. Although the main objective of the daily allowance is to secure real jobseekers with income while they are looking for new jobs, we see that this group has had a temporary arrangement that takes care of this particular situation we are facing. This proposal takes into account the fact that society is still strongly influenced by the pandemic, and that many are still out of work, either as a perm or as an unemployed person. This is why the government is providing this temporary solution to holiday money for the day. The scheme must be limited to those who fall under the long-term unemployment benefit entitlement rule, in order to avoid double compensation. Such a pandemic has developed, it can still take time for us to normalize the labour market. This ensured that those who have been unemployed for more than eight weeks receive holiday compensation, as they have not been able to provide the normal provision of holiday money to employers. This will provide an income hedge to the group that lacks ignition in income scars 2020 and 2021. This is one of many exceptional measures aimed at correcting the misdemeanour of many. It is important to clarify that this does not mean reintroducing the old holiday supplement, but that it is a pure corona measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1475	Red stood throughout the year in front of the fight to reintroduce holiday money for those who have been unemployed. This was a high priority cut from the right-hand government and the Progress Party – and now it was up to hundreds of thousands of people who had already taken a lot of losses, risking a large black income hole and without income this summer. After many misused opportunities to support us in that fight, the Progress Party and the right-wing government were finally pressured to participate in a unanimous decision to introduce a temporary right to holiday pay for daily allowances. Red supported the decision, but was clear that holiday pay had to be reintroduced as a permanent scheme for all beneficiaries of the daily allowance. Even if the time off is extra high now, it is not that you can normally go without income for a whole month, the month you should get holiday pay from last year's income. So the Red's primary suggestion in that treatment was to reintroduce holiday money on a daily basis for anyone who had received a daily allowance for short or long periods in 2020. That would just be fair and fair in the situation we're now in. The February decision was fairly clear, but the government is somewhat selective in memory when they present a proposal that only partially delivers on the order that came from Stortinget. We have seen this as a pattern since the government introduced the first crisis package for the unemployed a little over a year ago, that the majority of the population had to drag the government to introduce, extend, strengthen – and not least re-engage – a number of important measures for the hundreds of thousands of people who have been affected by the crisis. Therefore, in our view, the Storting must remove what are unreasonable constraints and criteria imposed by the government, which will then shift the crisis bill to ordinary workers. Firstly, there should be no requirement to have received a daily allowance for more than eight weeks in order to receive a holiday allowance. Secondly, there should be no charge for the payment if you get holiday money based on what you have received in cash, without the curtailment that the government is now trying to make. Thirdly, we're not going to calculate the payout just based on the months from April to December. The decision was to provide revenue for ‘hire allowance received in 2020’. So once again, it is proposed to discriminate against those who were unemployed before the Corona broke out. This is a group that got further behind when the queue was considerably longer last year, and for incomprehensible reasons, the daily allowance was no longer increased in line with the new unemployed. The last year, after quite a lot of pressure, the right-hand side has agreed to several other temporary improvements in the day-to-day pay legislation. This shows that many people at Stortinget basically agree with Red that the daily allowance scheme is basically too poor. It has been too difficult to qualify for a day’s allowance, and payments have not been viable, especially for people who either have a low wage or have lived on small job breaks. The reason for this is that the temporary arrangements, both with increased daily and holiday pay for those who have been unemployed, are made permanent – because we want to combat unemployment, not the unemployed. A lasting improvement will ensure that workers do not risk economic ruin if they become unemployed. An important post-harvest job for a new majority will therefore be to ensure that a reinforced safety net for workers is put in place, and Red will be at the forefront of our implementation at the end of the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1493	When the government proposed to remove holiday money for day money in 2015, it was quite right that what is now the opposition was against it. It is in itself an entirely honest and tidy political disagreement. I believe it was right in 2015, and I believe that it is still right, not because I don't like it or anything like that, but because I think it's more important priorities, and because we put in place a system that I think is also better in sum, without costing it as much, namely, that if you're long-term unemployed, you get the opportunity to take a vacation, thus being exempt from the obligation to be a real job seeker, but get paid day money. It is worth remembering that, compared with the old scheme, the scheme that exists today is better for those who have been long-term unemployed for over 52 weeks, because in most cases the day-to-day payments are higher than what would be paid in holiday pay. So it's true that the government parties have been involved in a solution, because we're not in normal times. We have therefore proposed a temporary holiday allowance scheme for daily pay in June 2021 in order to ensure that those who have become vacant or have been granted leave as a result of the corona. It was a unanimous increase that joined the request decision, and then there were majority comments, from the Progress Party, into which the government parties also joined, as far as I remember. In line with that, we've added up to a combination, where we make one solution for those who have less than 52 weeks, and another solution, which is today, for those who have over 52 weeks, who have the right to take a day off. The date of the cut-off is 7 June. There have also been some practical questions about this, and it will be clearer when, hopefully, a decision on appropriations is taken by the Storting and gathered on something. Some have pointed out that those who are registered with Nav with a right to a day's leave with a daily allowance, but who have returned to work and do not receive a daily allowance on 7 June, may not receive a holiday allowance. I can assure them that they will be paid holiday money. The technical solution that needs to be chosen for Nav to pay the holiday money in June gives some limitations and some leads. Some of those who receive the holiday pay will be able to obtain the right to a daily leave during the summer or later of the year. These will then be able to benefit from both arrangements. That is simply a technical restriction. On the other hand, there will be some who come to work just after 7 June, and who have not been paid holiday money, and who will not then be able to take advantage of the right to a day's leave. It's a little self-evident, because of course they're no longer unemployed. The holiday supplement scheme in force until 2015 was limited to those who had received daily allowances for at least eight weeks of the previous year. We propose the same limit of eight weeks in the temporary arrangement. There's a very simple reason for that. It is that those who are excluded from the scheme, at least those, most of them, will then have a significant holiday pay from the employer. We have seen the temporary arrangement as a hand bill and want it to be reasonable like that. That is why we have also proposed that the holiday supplement should not exceed NOK 25 000, because for the government parties this is not a desire to reintroduce a permanent scheme, but a temporary measure. This means that a person who has a daily allowance basis of 6G could be paid the maximum amount of NOK 25000 if he had full daily allowance for at least seven months in the April to December 2020 calculation period. Three months of full daily pay will give a payment of approximately NOK 11 000. A person with a daily allowance of 3G and a full daily allowance over the entire calculation period will be paid approximately NOK 18600, while three months with full daily allowance will be paid about NOK 6200. Then this is a decision to grant the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1515	The Council of State was in fact concerned with the vicissitudes that remain with this system when you run a double race. For less than 52 weeks, you will receive a holiday allowance. If you have received a daily allowance for more than 52 weeks, you may be on a daily allowance, but do not deliver a report card for activity. If you have received a daily allowance for less than 52 weeks on 7 June, you can continue to receive both a holiday allowance and a daily allowance without an activity supplement. If you've been on a daily allowance for more than 52 weeks on June 7th, but if you get a job, there'll be nothing. How can the Council of State defend that once you have gone out of work for a long time – more than 52 weeks – you get a job, the company shuts down, you have kids in kindergarten, and you have to be home with them, you get nothing? How can the Council of State defend such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1520	Now there is no secret that this was not the original proposal or wish of the government parties. We wanted to be on our side, but we have also been on this compromise. The reason why we think that is right, and can also be defended, is that it gives a handshake to some of the people who have been available, while at the same time ensuring the arrangements we have today, which too many people will be more favourable, namely that you have the right to four weeks' free of daily allowance if you have been long-term unemployed for over 52 weeks. In the situation we're in right now, no matter which one of the arrangements is chosen here, it's going to get some results. For example, it is not clear to me whether, with the Workers' Party's system, you will have the opportunity to get real freedom. Would you like to have your holiday money paid instead of your daily allowance? Would you like to be paid both daily and holiday money? In this case, you do not have the right to take a vacation – you are a real jobseeker. There are also some limitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1527	That's right. But the core of the question I have is: Why does the Council of State think it is right that those who have gone so long on the day-to-day pay should not get any things? So there's no answer to that. Then I want to continue with another question, and it is about the $25,000 that is now being set as a limitation on how much each individual can be paid. What damage does the Council of State think it would have done if they had received up to NOK 7 000 more after going on low incomes over a very long period of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1534	Firstly, I do not agree with the description of the proposal. We are completely open and honest about what is our policy. It's all right that the Workers' Party wants to raise to 3 billion. to reintroduce a fixed holiday pay scheme. It has been promised – how they can fit it in their budgets – to be the cause of the Labour Party. It's not the government's policy. We want this as a temporary arrangement. It also means that, as with daily allowances, increased rates, we think it would be reasonable to limit it to those who have become unemployed specifically linked to the coronary apathy. When we also say that this is temporary, we believe it is reasonable that there is a certain balance between this scheme and what it has been like for workers who have not been entitled to holiday pay before 2015. This means that we are not proposing a new permanent arrangement. We propose this as a temporary hand bill, and then we believe it is also reasonable to have such a limitation on payments.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1541	When the Council of State says that the scheme proposed by the Workers' Party will cost SEK 3.1 billion. kr in future budgets, I can comfort the Council of State that we intend to be far more offensive than what this government is to bring down unemployment. As a matter of fact, costs are going to decrease. You're proposing a $1.7 billion. kr, while our proposal is 750 million. kr more expensive. We're going to be able to find space in our alternative budgets. But it might be interesting to ask the Council of State why you don't want to have a system – we heard the representative Nordby Lunde here say that for the first three months, people had received vacation money from their employer – it doesn't have those who have gone on daily pay from January to March. Why should they not be covered by the present scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1548	That's enough, as we've been in this room before, some of the same reason that the Workers' Party in the first round was to raise the daily allowance. It was all the parties for, but not that it was going to have retroactive effect. That is because it was an answer to the concrete extreme situation caused by the coronary crisis. We are fully open from the government parties that this is not a proposal to reintroduce the scheme from 2015. This is, on our part, a temporary arrangement linked to the coronary crisis permanently. It's also worth knowing to people that the other system also has some big questions about it. I have already mentioned the question of whether one can at all take time off as a beneficiary of a daily allowance. Will you replace your daily allowance with your holiday money? In this case, for many long-term unemployed, this would mean a lower payment than with the scheme proposed by others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1555	At the end of the answer to the Council of State, he took part of my question – confirming that the Workers' Party's proposal will provide many long-term unemployed and actually be worse economically than the government parties and the Progress Party agree on. I understand that many people think this may be a little inconspicuous, and that's exactly what's a bit of a question to the Council of State. Because after the Progress Party received a majority for our request in February, many people have contacted Nav and asked what the rules are, whether they will now receive holiday money, etc. The answers people then got from Nav are very different. Because although the Stortinget has of course made its decision, the details have not been clear and will not be until tomorrow. That, of course, is a challenge. But some of the challenge then is when Nav announces that this has not been adopted, and in some cases Nav has said that this was downgraded, etc. How can the Council of States ensure that, in similar cases in the future, Nav actually provides the best possible information on the basis of what they have the opportunity to do, before the Stortinget takes a final decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1564	The easiest thing to do is if the Storting unanimously ends up talking about the government's proposal in all cases. Then it will be easy for Nav to provide information. It was a joke, President. Nav has a difficult role to play in these matters. It is quite obvious that, although the Storting has taken a request decision, the scheme is not finished, because the decision to grant it has of course very much to say about what kind of device the scheme will get. On the one hand, Nav will deal with users who, for understandable reasons, have better things to do than follow up on the details of the political debate. On the other hand, it is very important not to create hopes about or not to promote policies that may subsequently prove to be non-adopted. I have not gone through the communication to Nav in detail, but it is correct, as has been said, that although the Stortinge has joined the intention to want a holiday pay scheme in different forms, the final decision is not taken, because it is a decision to grant, and therefore the details of the scheme are not laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1573	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1579	The representative, Mr Lundtägen, wondered why the Progress Party has promoted several loose proposals. Had the representative Lundtigen read the attitude of the committee, he had seen that the view of the Progress Party has been consistent all along. However, in the light of the debate following the suspension, certain representatives tried to raise doubts as to what was behind the Committee's proposal for a referral to the Committee. Then we thought it was okay, to remove any doubt, that the Storting actually has a separate voting concretely over these points. I also record that more people are more concerned with taking the man instead of the ball, to use football terminology, instead of actually discussing what are the realities. I think very many people who have now had it very tough economically for a long time, would have been relatively provoked if they had heard this debate. Because what this debate is about is the economy that many are going to have this summer. It's about whether people can afford to pay their rent, the mortgage, the food, etc. Some try to represent this as if someone were going to be able to travel around and have luxurious vacations, etc. It's not that. This is the income of people. And then some try to let political polemics go instead of taking a stand on the concrete proposals here. The one proposal promoted by the Progress Party concerns why persons who have been on leave for less than two months are not entitled to earn holiday money. Of course they should. All employees who have worked in e.g. Seven weeks, you get your holiday pay. That should also be paid to the beneficiaries. Why is the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the Swedish Labour Party adding today to reduce the rate from 10.2 pst to 9.5 pst.? It's not the biggest sums, but I think it's petty. These are people who have worn out financially. And the Storting has already decided that it's going to be 10.2 pst, the same thing as for employees, but then you choose to promote a concrete proposal to reduce the rate. Fortunately, this will be made clear by tomorrow's vote. Then it's time for political polemics. Then it's the hard facts that will show up. Who is voting for a maximum of 25 000? Who is voting that certain groups who have been on leave or who have been off for shorter periods will not get? It's not the Progress Party, because we think people are going to get what they need now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1594	In the premonition that the representative Wiborg went right over from being a representative to being a speaker, the president forgot to point out that there was a 3 minute speaking time from then on. But Wiborg stayed fine for the 3 minutes, so this went well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1599	First a comment to the representative Wiborg: I have not heard anyone here in the room who has suspected anyone to spend money on luxurious vacations. I understand that most people who have spoken here today are concerned that those who have been unemployed will get a handshake. Then we disagree on how it's going to be arranged, and how much you're going to get. I would like to tell the representative Wiborg that we have explained why we are at 9,5 pst. It is because we believe that the daily allowance rate is slightly lower, and therefore it is also appropriate to use the rate in the scheme until 2014, when the Progress Party Council has removed the entire scheme. What I have reason to ask the representative, Wiborg, is how he can explain that those who have been paid more than 52 weeks and get a job after 7 June will not receive any holiday money. I think that's completely unreasonable. It shows that these arrangements are complex and that it would have been possible to go back to a system that was known, on which calculations have been made. We have been calculated by the Council of State that our system – the one that was before Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party removed it when he was in government – will cost NOK 2 450 000. It is based on the way the scheme was in 2014. So to the representative Nordby Lunde, who says that the scheme was not good before, because the holiday money was paid in January and February. If you're worried that there's a problem, one of the easiest things would be to change that payment date, so that the money came in June or July, as for other people who get holiday money. Nor do I understand the argument that those who have earned the right to a daily allowance in January, February and March will receive the payment from their employer. There were almost 100,000 unemployed at that time as well. It's true, as the Council of State says, that we didn't let it get retrospectively so that they would also get higher rates. But then we have seen how the labour market has evolved for those who have been available from January, February and March in 2020. If there's someone who's really had it tough economically, it's them. Then it is very strange that they should be kept out of such an arrangement. It is unfair, and therefore the scheme we are proposing is better. It will give exactly the same payments as the scheme that the Council of State is now presenting to those who have had daily allowances for less than 52 weeks. If you go beyond the 52-week rule, you're going to get both of them, so there's no difference between the scheme we had, and the scheme that the Council of State is putting forward now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1608	I take the floor for a little clarification – not to anything that has been said in this Chamber, but to something that has arisen in the public debate. There is the question of a so-called technical defect in Nav. I just want to stress that this has the origin of a media essay, which we unfortunately were a little late in correcting. I would like to stress that there is nothing that we have said, and there are really two questions. The content of the case – except for the impression where it was written – was otherwise quite correct. One is the question of the time of intersection, i.e. before and after 7 June. It's not because of any technical systems in Nav. It is quite right as, among other things, The representative of Aasrud has pointed out in the debate that this is the result of the decision and the proposal of both the Progress Party and the Government Parties. I'm not going to repeat our arguments that it means that the long-term unemployed will get more paid in many cases, but that's why, after 52 weeks, you get the right to four weeks' day money free. What is a technical restriction – and here it is important that there is a restriction in such a short time and not a mistake – is that it is not possible to prevent a few from getting twice as many. It's a technical constraint, but it's not a technical fault in Nav. This means that it is not possible to prevent anyone from getting paid holiday money and then later still earned the right to have four weeks off with daily allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1617	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1636	We actually started the pandemic in 2020 with low unemployment, and I remember businesses across the country who reported that their biggest obstacle to growth was a lack of skilled labour. This changed dramatically after 12 March, when intervention due to the pandemic led to the highest registered unemployment in Norway since World War II. A total of 416,000 applications for daily allowances were registered between 12 March and the end of April last year. But then we saw over the summer that the unemployment rates went down rapidly, as the most interventional measures were rolled back. Of course, we expect the same thing when, hopefully, we're going to open up, more people get vaccinated and the infection goes back. Unemployment has fallen sharply since last year, but is still clearly higher than before the pandemic. Nearly 212,000 people are now registered as jobseekers at Nav. Although many people are likely to return to work quickly when the infection situation improves, we know that people who have been away from work for a long time may have challenges to get to work. There is therefore a risk that the pandemic could affect the labour market in the longer term. This is in addition to the many people who were out of work before the pandemic. However, according to Nav’s annual report for 2019, the instruments that accompanied the government’s inclusion capability had begun to work. This important work must continue. Too many people are out of work, and especially when we also know that going to work is good health, more people need to be up and down. That is why I want to challenge the Council of State in three areas I believe we need to focus on in the future: young disabled people, the need for skills in labour market measures and the long-term effects of today's schemes. In recent years, much more young people have been disabled, and this is a cause for concern. Some reason we know is that more children are now growing up with diagnosis and disability that were previously fatal, but that explains very nearly everything. Before Christmas we received a report that showed that of them between 25 and 29 years of age who have been granted disability benefit, 70 had pst. a mental disorder. In addition, we know that young disabled people often come from lower-income families, that their school results are worse, and that their relationship to work is weaker than for peers. We've done a lot, but obviously it has to do more. Research shows that mental health can often be combined with work and that work has a positive effect on health, both physical and mental. Having a job helps most people to get involved, mastery and personal development. Nav has increasingly used the methodology of individual job support, which provides individual follow-up, long-term support and self-determination for several target groups. That's good, but can we do more? The effects of corona in the labour market will continue long after the last vaccine has been set, and we must avoid the corona crisis becoming an extravagant crisis. How can we ensure that young people in particular are not pushed out but helped into the labour market? Persons with low or no formal education are particularly vulnerable in the current situation. Education and competence are and will be the key to the labour market. Now, education as such is not the Minister of Labour's territory, but we know that many of those who fall outside lack basic skills, and then we also have to have tools to get them through a race for education. What measures can we contribute here? In cooperation with the social partners, a new wage support scheme has been developed to encourage enterprises to take out the lay-off workers more quickly back to work. They may thus prepare for the reopening of the establishment, even if the revenue is not yet available. Hopefully, it'll be counterproductive for the unemployment rate to stick to a high level. But is this enough? Labour market measures are, of course, key tools for getting more unemployed into work. In order to avoid a lasting increase in unemployment, the number of response sites increased significantly this year, and Nav has also been given increased appropriations for, among others. strengthening the follow-up of the long-term unemployed. However, both research and experience show that those who have been long-term leavers often become, unfortunately, long-term unemployed. It is also one of the reasons why I have been concerned about many of the extensions to support schemes and permitting schemes adopted by the Storting. Of course, we should contribute as long as necessary, but the Stortinge decided, among other things. enlargements to 1 October, which are several months after the adult population is thought to have been completed. Labour market measures cannot replace an actual labour market; we depend entirely on private business to stand up when the infectious diseases control measures are rolled back. As a former Minister of Economic Affairs, the Council of State hardly needs a reminder that it is Norwegian business to create the jobs we want people to be included in. At the same time, we've also seen under the pandemic how dependent we are on the world around us, not just for the export of oil, fish, technology and services. We have experienced growth throughout the country because the world has come to us. Visit Norway estimated that we had previously visited about 400,000 Chinese tourists in Norway annually. When the shoe shop in the small village of Flå in Hallingdal sold 250 pairs of shoes a week, it was not because the 1,100 inhabitants were destroying unusually many shoes, but because Chinese tourist buses stopped in the village. There are not going to be 400,000 Chinese tourists to Norway this year, hardly next year either. And there are no Norwegian crisis packages that can compensate for a long-term fall in a global market from which it will take time to recover. It is to throw blues in the eyes of workers and business owners to pretend that everything will be as before just the crisis packages are big enough and last long enough. I fear, on the other hand, that long-term crisis packages can prolong the crisis by preventing the necessary conversion and inhibiting new growth and jobs. We also know that long-term lay-offs and elevated rates can result in adverse lock-in effects. That is why it would have been nice to hear the Minister of Labour's reflections on the very effect of the many temporary arrangements that have been put in place. Thus, Nav’s figures show that 212,000 people are completely unemployed, partially unemployed and job seekers on Nav’s actions. Although the government has presented a number of business crisis measures, the situation is still very demanding. When everyone on leave comes from the private sector. Experience has shown that labour market crises are increasing the risk of more people staying long-term or permanently out of work. The long-term consequences of the ongoing unemployment crisis can be considerable. In order to avoid increasing differences in society, it is important that we be able to get as much back to work as possible. Then my question to the Council of State is just this: What will the Council of State do to prevent unemployment from breaking down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1659	As the representative Nordby Lunde pointed out, last year unemployment increased more and faster than ever before to a historically high level. There is no parallel in the post-war period in Norway. The unemployment rate has fallen since March/April last year, but still the number of partially unemployed and the total number of unemployed is high, above 200,000. By comparison, there is a higher figure than under the oil price drop. It's a higher figure than in the financial crisis. It's a higher number than under the dot com bubble, if anyone remembers it. There are almost 120,000 people who are now registered as completely unemployed, one in three are on leave, and almost half have been unemployed for at least six months. It's a good news in all the darkness, and it's that after all the sun tags, if we follow the advice of Bent Höie, Nakstad, Guldvog, Stoltenberg and everyone else and wash their hands and keep their distance and that, Norway will be able to open up again, and then the economic activity will also come back. We can meet people again, and people will come back to work. Why, then, is there any reason to be concerned? Well, a good picture is perhaps my hometown, Porsground – not because there is some bad place to be, rather on the contrary. It is a very nice and beautiful municipality, but it is also a typical municipality in Norway, which has a proud and long industrial history, and has experienced incredibly large changes and changes over several decades. There are a lot of jobs that have been lost, a lot of businesses that have been laid down, but there are also many that have come into existence. This could be Pors grounds or it could be a case-by-case or a yard or an industrial enterprise in almost any part of the country, but what you can see is that although the conversion on one side has an upside – and on the other side is that the industrial workplaces are still there, these are still billion-dollar industries exporting too hard values out of the country, not least thanks to the EEA Agreement, in brackets noted – it is also the case that the conversions have a price. There are some signs that when the vacancy goes up or a factory is laid down, there is someone who does not find the way back to work. What we know clearly from the research is that employment has difficulties and greater difficulty in recovering the longer people stay out of work. Researchers have also estimated that there are significant socio-economic losses in this — of course. One percentage point higher unemployment can lead to a permanent reduction in the employment rate in the long term corresponding to almost 10,000 fewer persons employed and provides an annual GDP loss of 12 billion for the mainland economy. kr. It also has an individual side, because we know that the longer people stay standing without work, the less likely they are to get back. That means that most lay-offs will get back to work, but the danger is great because many, or at least some, won't do it. This danger becomes extra big because those who are now unemployed are a little different – not as people, but as their background – than what we saw, for example. below the oil price drop. It's as usual more young people, it's common. As usual, it also affects several Nordics with a minority background, it is also common. But there are also more than once who have relatively short courses, and who work in professions that are sometimes called low pay, i.e. professions that do not have very high pay levels, to say the least. This means that the unemployment crisis and the economic crisis can continue and continue long after the last vaccine stick is set, and long after society is reopened, even if we are back in a normal situation. There's one of the representatives' Nordby Lunde's points pretty important, because it also means that how we manage to deal with the way back to normal becomes important. The fact that temporary arrangements are being stepped down is important for two reasons. Firstly, we must recognise in the long term that the unemployment crisis is a crisis in the private sector. Everyone has been hit by the Korona, but the unemployment crisis is primarily in the private sector. If the private sector is to have room to grow, there cannot be an excessive imbalance between the public sector and the private sector. Secondly, the sum of good measures can over time become a system that is worse for most people as well. There's a reason why we've often talked about the line of work in this room, and we've talked about the need for benefits that stimulate us to get back to work, although that means that the performances are not as high as they are in a crisis situation as they are now. The second track is that we have to use this crisis for some change of pace and permanent changes. I think it is absolutely right to continue to make a major contribution to labour market policy, and I think it is important that we continue to follow up more closely, for example. youth at risk of falling outside. But we have to have a change of pace with regard to our view of competence and education and the path of work, if we can call it that. For too long, we've been operating as if people were two-parted, as if it were part of those who were going to be involved in education, while another part was applying for a job. In the short term, it may be reasonable not to create a daily allowance system that is linked together to encourage you to take training instead of applying for a job. If what you need to get back to work is re-schooling, completing your degree, building on your professional letter with a vocational education or doing something else that makes you more attractive, it's one track. We've sent a code to the Stortinget that the Stortinget has for treatment now, and I think it's important, but it's just the beginning, because here we have to just rig our whole system, from county to state, from Nav, secondary schools, adult education, colleges, universities and colleges, so that we can get education throughout our lives. I mentioned that the time off was now higher than during the oil price drop and the dot com bubble. Probably we have to go back to the beginning of the 1990s, to the high unemployment rate that was then, to find a parallel, if the unemployment rate remains high over time. The second point that is important is to initiate private sector value creation. I realize that it's a little outside of my area as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but it's nevertheless absolutely crucial. You can't just talk about work – people work somewhere, and those who are unemployed work in private companies. If private businesses go bad, people won't be able to get back to work, and we won't be able to create new jobs. So I think it's another time shift we also need, and it's about inclusion in the working life. The government has long had an inclusion power, where the goal is that several of those who don't fit in completely, which is a little bit outside of A4, if we can say so, will get a chance in the workplace. It requires the state – central state has a requirement of 5 pst. on the number of new jobs to be included in this category — and it requires employers in the private and public sectors, but it also demands our system. I believe that we need to keep looking for improvements, in Nav, and not least how Nav works with private and public employers to create a simple and unbureaucratic system of organisation. There we too, who have been in government for some years, must be concerned that the system is not given to us on stone tablets from a high mountain. Rather, on the contrary, the system must be constantly improved. The last point I want to mention is how we can reach those people who have the greatest problems. We have, as I mentioned, a strong commitment to labour market measures, over a billion extra this year alone. Many of the labour market measures work very well, and it's a big sector, we spend a lot of money on it. My question is whether there is a single sector that has enough room for new ideas and better solutions, where it is easy for new players to come in and try their concepts. In the Business Committee we talked a lot about innovative purchases when I was Minister of Industry. How good are we when it comes to allowing social entrepreneurs to try out new models for how to help people? How good are we to it when there's someone who doesn't have a chance to participate in a bid with 100 places, but maybe would have a good idea to try out five, as a starting point for checking a new solution that doesn't fit completely into the system as it is? There we also need a change of pace, and I hope to be able to deliver some concrete policy over time before the summer to get it done. Thank you for the interpellation, otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1701	Thanks for the answer so far. Since the Council of State chose to use examples from its own hometown, I'm going to do it myself, too, because I've discovered to my horror that here in Oslo there are a total of 40,000 people employed in one of the industries that have really been exposed to the pandemic, namely travel life, hotels, restaurants and events. The whole town has been in lockdown almost since October. This is an industry that employs very many people who often have their first entrance to the world of work through perhaps temporary work or seasonal work within hotels, restaurants and events. One of the things that hit me, and as I used as an example, is that we don't get back 400,000 Chinese tourists to Norway in 2021 – and hardly in 2022 either, I'm almost there that I hope not. This means that the labour market must compensate for job losses that depend entirely on factors beyond ourselves to be able to influence. The Council of State came up with this: competence and education as an opportunity, and the need to put in an extra gear to close these races. What we have seen during this government's period of operation, from 2013 onwards, is that there has been a lot of effort on early work in kindergarten, in school, in the absence limit, and there has been a commitment to education, which we also see increasing implementation, but not for everyone. We also see that this is a weakness for many of those who are at risk of falling out of work, or who have problems getting into work. What has surprised me most about the work of this committee is among other things. that those closest to the education cycle, i.e. those from high school, also lack basic skills. We have now noticed in the committee that there has been a proposal from the government on, among other things. competence and education and the ability to combine education and training with daily allowances. I have to admit that initially I was a little skeptical about it, because we see that having a targeted race for individuals to actually end their schooling motivates more people to get completed right away. Providing an economic incentive — rather than taking a student loan, like everyone else — to complete a school run or to complete some trades on daily pay can also turn out unlucky. I see that there is a balanced presentation of what the government has presented, but I would also like to hear the Council's reflections on exactly this, whether combining daily pay with education can give us some unfortunate effects, now that the committee is going to be working on that particular proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1712	On this matter, of course, I would like to answer all the questions that the Committee had to ask about. And then, the representative that Nordby Lunde is raising, has been the overwhelming principle of our systems up until now. That's in itself good reasons for that. Please note that in the past there has been a full opportunity to borrow from the Loan Fund at the same time as you are on a daily basis – it has only been almost impossible to take any education. So that's the way you've constrained it. But the reason why I think this should change is that the group that is in danger of falling out changes a little bit. We have a different type of labour market, including: because of these major changes that I described, starting with the example from the industrial town of Porsgrund. I believe that you have people who struggle to get back to school after they have fallen out, today is a bigger loss than the risk of getting people who drop out of high school as 18-year-olds and wonder about waiting until they get 25 years old, then go on the day money and go into the school system to get a letter. I think that father is smaller. So I also mean that this is hit in a good way. I think that this is the way we have to think about, and it's also about my basic belief that if you're going to do something about aliens and differences in society, you have to tackle the causes of aliens and the causes of differences. The reasons for exclusion are not given by looking at a snapshot based on the income statistics of the SSB. The reasons are just about minority backgrounds, about neighborhoods, about kindergartens, about school and systematic differences in school outcomes based on your home background -- if I had been on the left-hand side, I would have called it the systematic class distinction; I'm not saying that, since I'm Right-Man, but that's what it is -- and it's about our system making it too difficult to build education once you've fallen outside. That's some of what we're trying to fix. So just two words about the geographical starting point of the representative Nordby Lunde, namely Oslo: Oslo is the municipality that has been hit hardest if we are to look at unemployment. This is because Oslo is a service municipality that is very directly affected. Then it is important to say that those who have believed that we can relax the rules on infectious diseases and get the economy back faster have made mistakes. I also think it is important that we have given arrangements that give the municipalities additional support for, for example. bars and restaurants which are now closed and forced to remain closed. Then it gets up to the municipalities even though they also want to do something at the top of what the government does. I'm not going to interfere with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1725	First, thank you to the representative Nordby Lunde for an interview on an important topic. Then I hope that the need for the interpellant to ask this question is not due to poor contact between the Right of the Stortinget and the Council of State and the Government on these matters. Experience so far with the work of the Korona crisis has shown that the government parties at Stortinget have often voted in favour of solutions other than those presented by the government here on Stortinget. The working party has been concerned since the Corona came, about an absence that bites itself. We know from experience that unemployment can go up very quickly, but slow down again. The plan must therefore be a take-off for work. We have been particularly concerned with three aspects of crisis management. First of all, we know that not everyone who has a permit comes back to their old workplace. That is why it has been important for us with a strong commitment to competence. By February at the latest, we received a majority, together with the other red-green parties and the Progress Party, for a major strengthening of the competences measures. And we welcome the initiative of the Council of State to make it easier to take education and combine it with daily allowances. It was a proposal that we made in 2017. Imagine if we had it in place now – then we could add a lot of competence to those who have now been licensed. Secondly, when we use large sums of Community funds to save jobs, we need to make sure that the money actually goes to save Norwegian, serious jobs and is not used for personal enrichment by shareholders. Norway is distinguished by its lack of dividend and bonus restrictions in the context of the crisis response. Even countries such as Belgium, Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, Iceland, Sweden and Denmark have managed to implement such mechanisms, but the government has thus refused. I hope that the recent concern that unemployment is going to break down will also mean that the government is now willing to target the crisis support even better. Thirdly, the Labour Party has been particularly concerned about getting young people into work or education. Now there is something very wrong, when we see that thousands of young people go unemployed while working life imports labour. It's a failure statement. One in four unemployed in Norway is under 30 years old. An entire generation is at risk of being more difficult than the parental generation, and many are struggling with mental health disorders. Many fall out of secondary education without being followed up, and there has been a doubling in the number of people under the right-hand rule. We can risk a lost corona generation. It is possible to do more to get young people to work. A perspective that I miss in the Council of State is what kind of work life it is we're going to send out the young. For the Workers' Party, it is important that they meet with employers who offer a safe and fair working life, full and permanent jobs and a salary to live on. But the right-wing government has weakened the Working Environment Act, increased the possibility of temporary employment, and each year made it more expensive to be a member of a trade union. We want to have a big cleaning in the world of work to open up unprofessional actors and make sure that we have a safe and healthy meeting with the working life of the young people who are coming in there. We will do this at the same time as we will set up our own youth teams in Nav to help young people get out of work through the flood of measures and assistance, so that they can find out more and get offers that enable them to acquire skills and get help to deal with other problems that prevent them from getting into work. The bet must come in fast and coordinated. No one should have to have a diagnosis to get help. Those who are sick shall not experience any diminutive cut in benefits. The combination of work and social security needs to be facilitated and more people need to move from social security to work. Our goal is to give all young people the opportunity to succeed in their lives, with good and organized education, a safe working life and lifelong learning. It'll take a lot of self-esteem, but we're going to be with them all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1742	The last year has been exceptional. Some have seen their life's work disappear between their hands. Others have struggled to make the ends meet. Records are now out of work and are concerned about the future. At the same time, more industries experience better times than in a long time. We trade food and plants that never before in Norway, and it may seem that large parts of the population are uplifting and investing in bubble baths and trampoline. There are considerable differences in the individual’s situation now, simply depending on whether or not you have a job to go to. Our main task is to make sure that the high unemployment rate doesn't get stuck. Then we have to have private business on our team and provide good framework conditions to facilitate increased job creation. We need to create more, and cooperation will be important. Six out of ten companies lack the right skills, according to the NHO competence survey. It shows that we need to be more good at connecting people and employers and giving opportunities to fill in with more skills. We need to give companies like Manpower the opportunity to contribute more to this work, in order to ensure that no more falls permanently outside. The manning industry should be cleaned once and for all. Over the past year, they have helped air hostess and air hostesses into shopping and warehouse jobs and connected supply of demand. The industries that yell for the labour force are going crazy. Manpower provides skills enhancement and labour. That's what's going to work out. We have to make several connections like this possible. In Rogaland, as in the rest of the country, there have been tough trades, especially in the food and food industries. The industry has had to change and be creative in its operations. Several have offered three-course menus at home to their own living room, a system that I hope has come to stay. In Rogaland, there are several companies in the food and food industry that have used what we call in-house conversion products. The money should close the gap in skills and increase the ability to convert to keep people in work or get them back. A secret restaurant in Bryne has been able to keep employees active by enhancing their competence in the restaurant sector. Now it's worth over 27 million. SEK for more such projects in Rogaland and over 300 million. kr on a national basis. Raising skills enables enterprises to change and target more markets. It is also perceived as a motivating factor for employees at lighter times. We're a lot of people waiting to be able to take bars and restaurants again. But it is also important to ensure that those who are most remote from work are given a chance. Then we have to give Nav back coverage to engage with private actors. We all need good forces in this work. We need companies like Unicus, who work to employ people with Aspergers in the IT industry. We need Hopeful, who helps young people get back to school or to work, and we need Old Enough, who sees that age doesn't say anything about working ability or function. We simply need more people to participate in the work of including more. Now we have to make sure that even more jobs are created and maintained in the private sector, so that as many as possible have a job to do. In this way, businesses need predictable framework conditions, help to improve their skills and good tools to include more. The labour market needs to be linked to those outside, and through good skills and interaction we need to include even more. Together, we're going to get out of the crisis, just by creating more and including more.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1755	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important debate. I also think it makes sense that we can more often lift our eyes a little bit and discuss a little bit overall, because normally, there is a lot of detail in the specific issues we are discussing. Then it makes sense to be able to lift your eyes a little bit. The issue of the inter-pellant is most relevant, and especially as normal approaches. Is it really going to be the normal that's approaching, or is it going to be a whole new normal that we're waiting for? I don't think either of us fully know what the end of this pandemic will be, and what the new everyday life will be like. In exactly the same way, I don't think either of us two and a half years ago could quite imagine the situation our country has been in for a decade now. It's about nobody predicting the future, not politicians either. I think we politicians should learn from that, because it is not us politicians who create jobs. Often you can get the impression of it when you hear the political debate, but with the exception of bureaucracy and some public jobs, it is the private business that actually creates the jobs that we all depend on. So what's our job? Well, it's to facilitate – to facilitate business, not to tell the business what to do at any time, but to build good and safe framework conditions. It can be anything from education policy to transport policy, to get the goods around, or to make it easier for people to get jobs that may be a little further away. There may be taxes and taxes – to ensure that companies have the lowest possible tax and tax burden, so that they can bet, or as some parties want, to increase taxes, which I think are very unfortunate, especially in the time they are currently in. It may also be what bureaucracy businesses experience every day. All of these matters are about what framework conditions we provide. The interpellant was itself within the rules of permitment. I agree that the permitting rules may be important, but there I have a slightly different approach than the interpellant. I believe, on the contrary, that having good permitting rules that create as much predictability as we can in an unpredictable time for businesses and people most, is important. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget has said that the extended rules of leave will apply until October. Is the pandemic over and we're in a more normal situation before that, there's no thing that would delight me and many more than that, but we don't know, and then you have to have that predictability. Once the Progress Party has struggled over and over again to reduce the employer's period of leave from ten to two days, it is simply in order to create a slightly higher predictability, making it less risky for businesses to be able to reopen. It's a measure that I think is right, so that we can keep the most of the jobs that are initially viable, even when we get out of the pandemic. There's no doubt that the line of work is important, and we never have to be afraid to say it right out. It's worth your while at work. It's an important premise. We are all concerned that we should have a safety net in Norway. That's the cross-political agreement. As I say, maybe a little bit clumsy: we in the Advancement Party are busy having a safety net that is like a trampoline, which catches you when you fall down, helps you up again and preferably to stand on your own feet and to be able to support yourself. The challenge is to create safety nets that become like a net that captures you. This will get you trapped in the system instead of getting up, getting the help you need to get a job and be able to support you and your family. But if we are to do this, we must never forget that we are not the politicians who create jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1770	I would also like to thank the representative of Nordby Lunde. How are we going to prevent unemployment from breaking down? That's another way of saying that you're in favour of full employment or in the fight against unemployment, as we in the Center Party would say. So this is about the management of the labour market. Control from who? Yes, from the community, from the populace and from the Storting. In order for unemployment not to be fixed, the Storting must gain more power. The grandma has to deal with it. The size must facilitate the large lines. It is quite obvious that the situation after the pandemic will be different from what it was before the pandemic, as the representative Nordby Lunde said. Travel is facing great challenges, and they adapt in great measure to travelers who may not live as far away as they did before. But it is quite obvious that you need to create new jobs for people living in Norway. Because the Center Party is one of the core areas that we have to create more, we have to produce more, and we have to produce more on the basis of our enormously rich natural resources. That's why we've focused on what I've called cod, timber and timotei, i.e. our renewable industries linked to the sea and related to land. The Central Party has made proposals for a new State green investment company with a drawing rights of up to 100 billion. kr which can be owned by long-term loan capital and develop modern processing industries in our fisheries, in the food industry and in the wood processing industry. This is how we need to have active programmes on the business side – connecting business and working life. There is also a great deal of work in Norway today being done by guest workers, people living in another country, who enter into shorter or longer periods and then travel back. This has led to a major problem today in having this work carried out when the guest workers do not come in. It shows how vulnerable this whole thing has become. The council said we had to have a change of pace, and I noticed that, but there was not so much change of pace in what the council said. In the view of competence, there was something good. The right has made some efforts to improve the practical professions, but it is still the theoretical education that grows the most, and we need a better balance there. Governments also had some positive things about inclusion, about inclusion in public enterprise. Inclusion is what we in the Center Party call politics, not hard work. We are quite tired of the fact that in more and more policy areas it is going to be done. That's what we're doing at the Sanitation. That's what we do on a voluntary basis. This is where we run politics. What's at the core is making Bigthing more important. What is our task is to create demand for workers, demand in Norway that is greater than the supply of workers living in Norway. I hope the council heard what I said now. Our task is to create demand for workers living in Norway, who are larger than the offer. This gives us a situation where those who have a weak connection to the labour market can also get a job. Today, however, we have a system of uncontrolled labour immigration from outside the Nordic countries. This means that when they come from countries with extreme unemployment and poor pay and working conditions, there is a supply of labour here which means that a number of occupations in Norway today are not occupied by people living in Norway. We are in the tragic situation that this has led to the fact that we do not have sufficient vocational training for a number of professions, whether they be butchers, masons, painters, health professionals or gardeners. It has a clear connection with the system we have, which needs to be revolutionized, as the Council of State said. We have to get a controlled labour immigration so that those who come as workers have a permanent job, have a permanent residence to go to, and there is a need for it after we have trained our young people who are interested in going into these subjects. So we're facing a big change, much bigger than the government's prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1787	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. We need a big boost for those who have suffered most during the crisis. We have to take seriously that those who had the least from before are the ones who have suffered the most, and are the ones who will have to live the longest with the consequences. When we get out of the crisis, it's important for the Left to help those who have taken the greatest noise, and we have to use powerful tools to get everyone back to work. The solutions require that we cooperate well with business and employers, so that as much as possible has a job to go back to. We believe it is important that more attention be given to support for enterprises that employ young unemployed people, with wage subsidies, and to assessing whether the introduction programme can be implemented in closer cooperation with employers. Those who have fallen out of work have now had access to education that they need to get back to work. We need to gain experience of this and we need to see how we can ensure that more unemployed people have access to the skills they need to get to work. This is also an instrument that the Employment Committee is developing as important in the future. It also needs to be easier to assess their skills and to take education as an adult, and in the completion reform for secondary school, as the government has now presented, very important steps are being taken to ensure this in the future. The Coronapandemy has also shown us that entrepreneurs, freelancers and self-employed people have been particularly vulnerable. For the Left, it is important to strengthen the rights of self-employed workers. Then there is also a greater chance that they have a job to return to when the market once again stabilizes. To combat the unemployment that has increased under the pandemic, we must work with those who do not have a job, with industry and with employers who create the jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1801	Thank you to the representative Heidi Nordby Lunde for putting an important theme on the agenda today. As it approaches summer and we are vaccinated, more and more people will come back to work. Nav's speech shows a fine decline in the unemployment rate for both the long-term unemployed and the short-term unemployed, and, fortunately, the total number of unemployed is reduced. Last week there were 2,300 fewer jobseekers at Nav than a week before. What one sees, according to the Central Statistical Bureau, is that fewer businesses are started now than last year at the same time. There has been a decrease in the number of individuals in particular. The risks of new start-ups are likely to be too great. As it appears, the biggest challenges in the sectors of culture, entertainment and leisure are, and before education, accommodation and service. We've heard a little bit about that in the articles. Before these groups, the decline was 29 pst. compared with the figures for the previous year during the same period. In the case of a limited liability company, the number actually shows a happy increase of 12 pst. in the second quarter of this year, compared with the same period last year. Everyone wants to come back to 'normal' times. With good escalation plans in companies with permities, hopefully everyone will do their best to get back to full swing. In this corona period, there are many entrepreneurs who have worked hard with product development – many with public support, and others with private capital. What I hear when I'm on company visits is that it can be very difficult to get into the public sector, for example. in supply competitions, such as the councils of state in the city. In this area, the public sector can improve and be more open to innovation. The public sector in Norway is large and dominant in the market in many areas and has to take responsibility for giving more people the chance to contract. In our eagerness to get too full of business, the Christian People's Party has special concern for those of us who must have organized jobs. No one should be forgotten and kept outside. Many young people experience this time of loneliness and they don't stretch to. Solitude, isolation and depression have been a major health challenge in our country. Many municipalities are good at interacting with voluntary sectors to help young people. They need qualified help, individual follow-up, and to know that someone cares. In my municipality, we are so lucky to have an organization called PitStop, which does just this. They've got very good results. They have helped many young people who have ended up in secondary school, back to school. Pensioners in the voluntary sector, many teachers, have helped. This has meant that the interaction has been completely distinguished. The young have been safe. They master the school situation and get help in schoolwork. They see a brighter future in a meeting than they initially did. The Christian People's Party has been in the government to significantly increase organized jobs, but we see that more needs to be done to get everyone involved. In addition, there is a need to increase and strengthen efforts at job-prevention measures. This is because there is a need for training for a business that has changed for the last sixteen years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1822	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question, but there is one dimension that I believe lacks a little in the debate. Before the pandemic, employment among the disabled was at 43.8 pst, compared to 74 pst for the rest of the population. 30 pst of them without a job would like to have, but they did not get. Among the evolutionary are eight out of ten without work, and under the pandemic it has become worse. Employment fell last year to 40.6 pst, and the fall is greater than for the population as a whole. The Labour Party is concerned about what we see of increasing differences between people. The richest are getting away. Those with the lowest incomes lag behind, not only relatively speaking, but feel that real wages are falling. The Labour Party is concerned about falling employment. So were we before the pandemic. We're worried that the numbers are increasing. So were we before the pandemic. In particular, it is worrying that the proportion of young people in distress is increasing. We are concerned about those who have been out of work for a long time, even though they can and will, and who as time goes by, experience that they no longer have social security rights and are referred to social assistance or private care. As former AUF leader Ina Libak so aptly said, the corona acts as a magnifying glass on increasing differences. There are some additional challenges: more than 200,000 Nordics are going back to work. Then it becomes tougher for those who were already in the first place further away from the labour market than many others. At the same time, the Korona crisis has shown us the value of our community and a strong public welfare service, the value of organized working life with clean working conditions. We are reminded that high trust in each other and strong solidarity with each other are Norway at its best. Over ten years we have built up the social-democratic model of society in Norway, and we must defend it – and build on it. This is the only way we can meet the big problems that are now waiting for us beyond the 2020s. The Workers' Party's programme, which was discussed at the national meeting just, has three entirely concrete promises, two of which are central to the topic we are talking about today: There shall be safe work for all. Work for everyone is job number one. It requires an active, not passive, country, where community resources are used specifically to create new jobs. Prosperity shall be enhanced. It should include everyone, regardless of who you are, and where you live. Important interventions are needed to improve the performance of work and the inclusion of those most remote from the labour market. The Labour Party has put forward proposals for a strengthened Nav. There is a need for more Nav employees with time to ensure close follow-up of users against employers, health care and education systems. We must increase the appropriations, not cut. The government's cut is already approaching half a billion dollars. Everyone must be entitled to individual tailor-made plans, but it does not help when the redundancy money has been cut so much that people have not even pulled a diagnosis before they are thrown out of the insurance, at least with a male wound as follows. Then a lot is lost, and you have to start again. Before that, people could get redundancy money as long as it was necessary, take education up to masters, if that's what it was going to do. It's not like that anymore. Qualification programmes are for those without social security rights who are at risk of becoming long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. However, the programme is rarely offered, and education is scarcely used, although all research shows that education is beneficial. We have to make sure that Nav has the tools and the decision-making authority that are needed. The Labour Party has promoted a number of proposals but has been downgraded. For example, this is a case in point. on universal design, job guarantee for young people and those with disabilities, education, several action areas, pre-guarantee for workplace organisation and reversal of redundancy payments, to mention something. Then the public – state and municipality like employers – must go ahead and offer jobs to those who like to but do not get. Finally, the National Councils mentioned education throughout their lives, but the Labour Party's proposal for a reform of skills and a billion of skills has thus been suspended. But perhaps there is hope for that reform after what the Council of State said.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1852	Work for everyone has always been and will always be work number one for the Workers' Party. Work is the basis for the development and prosperity of individuals and for the well-being of society as a whole. The fact that the right now is applying for job number one without the party taking tools into the toolbox to do the job is sensational, but interesting. In the past, the right has opted for tax laws in the belief and conviction that only the rich will be rich enough, they will also create jobs. I do not know if the Right has made a settlement with its own policy in that way, but it does not hurt to ask for an answer to it. In this room we should be able to establish once and for all that trickle-down economics is not a tool for full employment. Tax bills for those who have the most of them already only lead to an increase in inequality. That is the policy pursued by the Right, and that is what we see the consequences of in Norway today. In addition, unemployment is also increasing, mainly as a result of the corona situation and the total or partial closure of major industries, such as tourism, culture and the outdoor sector. The trade industry is also partly hit hard, with more than 200 000 unemployed today as a result. We see that it is not arbitrary how this happens. It is the young and the uneducated who have to leave only when working life shuts down. That's why it's so important to qualify as many employees as possible so that they can be better rusted when we're out of the pandemic. The completion of secondary education has become the new plank of work, and it is crucial to ensure that everyone is offered an opportunity to do so. The possibility of combining education with daily allowances is crucial, but that is not enough. Offerings such as professional letters of employment and company internal training are also important. In addition, we need to ensure several of these basic skills. Many do not have enough Norwegian or digital skills to benefit from the offer of a professional letter. For example, about 1000 of those who have resigned and been on leave on the Gardermo fall. in this category. Every third person who is unemployed is under 30 years old, the proportion of young people who are not at work, education or activity has been stable for a long time, and the number of young people who have been unemployed has doubled in the last ten years. The Labour Party will therefore have an activity reform which will ensure that all young people under the age of 30 have an offer of work or school. We'll give more chances they need to get into work, participate in the community of work and get their own income to live off. Nav must be given overall responsibility to ensure that there are jobs adapted to those with classified disability benefits, both in the public and private sectors. If we are to move on to ensuring full employment, it is absolutely essential that we break the code once and for all in order to combine work and social security. We've all been too bad about that. Unlike the government, which believes in financial instruments, the Workers' Party will pursue an active industrial policy that facilitates an innovative, knowledge-based and climate-friendly business. While the Right is only concerned with redefining its policy, which until now has been essentially a policy for increasing disparities, the Workers' Party has a plan, an active industrial policy and a willingness to succeed in creating more jobs for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1865	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I can assure the representative Aasrud that it is not because of poor communication between the Right Magnifying Group and the Governmental Apparatus, but because sometimes it may be pleasant to hear the representatives speak a little more freely in this Chamber, and not just have the party slogans, as I actually perceived the previous speaker to have. I would like to remind you that Norway has managed the coronary apathy better than a country that is natural to compare with, despite the fact that we have identified many defects and deficiencies. We have fewer deaths and fewer hospitalisations, and we seem to have a less economic setback than many others. Of course, that also gives hope. We also knew before the pandemic that we were facing major changes. The 2009 Perspective Communication, and probably before that too, already concluded that over the next ten years, the revenue from oil would be flattening and falling, while at the same time there would be fewer in pre-employment and more retired people. We're not going back to where we were, but into a new normal. The pandemic might actually have given us some drag help by acting just like a magnifying glass on challenges that we have to solve. There is enough consensus in this room – that the community should make demands, but also that the pension system must follow developments and make sure that it pays to be in work and that rights should be respected. Young people shall have rapid and close follow-up and be required to take care of the requirements. For me, at least there is no care in letting people go for a long time on temporary benefits or fully on disability benefits. Everyone is going with, as a present party had as slogans some years ago, but then you also have to set up the systems so that it raises people up and in and doesn't push people out and out. But we probably have a slightly different starting point for government governance of goals and instruments, as I understood the representative Lundtigen. The Timothy does not flourish by decisions in this room, nor does he do jobs. We will need sustainable Norwegian businesses to create the jobs that people will be included in, and I agree with the representative Lundtigen when he says that it will not be done, but because the individual is valuable and worth it, both for the employer and for society at large. We've made changes to the introduction program, we've introduced professional letters at work, we've introduced more tools just to bring people into the workplace. For in the Right we see the whole human life – from early work in kindergarten and school to well-being and community, which is best created when private entrepreneurs are allowed to flourish. We also saw that the labour market improved rapidly in the years following the oil crisis, and that the labour market was brought up quite quickly during this government, and I am sure that after the elections this government will be able to do the same again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1884	I would like to say thank you for the discussion. The representative Aasrud said that the number of workers had doubled during this government. I think that was a delay. She may be talking about young people who are misguided. Young people are a good illustration of the complexity of these challenges. Because there is no doubt that if you are young and unemployed, most people have first gone on redundancy pay and then on disability benefit afterwards. One of the issues is why, in Norway, we have more health-related benefits than in most other countries in Europe, indeed, some other country in Europe. This is partly a result of policies. Other countries also have social benefits, though not as many of them are as red as we are in many areas, including the United Kingdom. because we are a rich country — but they do not have health-related benefits the way we do. That's the one thing that's clear. The second is that it also illustrates the big dilemma: on the one hand, disability for many will be perceived as a sort of safe haven. Many people experience that they have to fight the system to get recognition of their disease, which means they can't work. On the other hand, the obvious paradox is that if you get pregnant at the age of 25–26 or younger than that, life 10–15 years later might be slightly different. Although Nav will formally follow you up and some, for example. can get a VTA place or something like that, we know that the densest follow-up happens before you go into disability. That means we haven't been able to rig our system so that we can follow people like that. has passed on to a disability benefit. Then I would say that some of the wisest thing we can do is look at new, good suggestions that come. The Employment Committee has a number of proposals related to this, and several of the proposals are also supported by a large majority, for which either all the social partners or a majority of the social organisations are involved. There's a lot we can pick up to follow up on this, among other things. related to disability insurance, young AAP receivers, etc. So just a few comments on the debate: it is quite right that the package of competence reform proposed by the Labour Party has not been adopted. But that's because the government's competence reform has a slightly different approach. There is now a reform of skills, and education and daily allowances are part of it. It's just that there wasn't one plan, in one document, with five actions. It was implemented as a series of measures to be implemented over time. So finally, I'm very much in favour of an active business policy, but I think that to create jobs, it can't just be that the state is active in buying up private businesses and then directing them. There must also be some private enterprises active in job creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1899	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1915	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1934	At the Westli School in Oslo you will find the students Layan and Lucas. Lucas, who tends to be very excited about getting up every day, tells the Newspaper that he is now struggling with motivation, and that he doesn't like digital education. There's almost always someone who hasn't switched off the sound, and neither he nor Layan gets concentrated, and they get stuck in mass. Vestli school is one of the schools in Norway that have been most hit by the pandemic. They've had over 100 classes in quarantine at the same time, and it's hard to hear about students who almost start crying when the principal comes in with their mouthbands, because they know that they're going to get quarantined again. The most important thing we give to our children and young people is a good school, a school that ensures that all children get the skills and knowledge they need to master their own lives and pursue their dreams. Because of the pandemic, many students have had longer periods of digital education and have missed important classroom teaching with their teachers and friends. The right is very grateful that teachers and employees in school have turned around and made a wonderful effort. There are several students who say that digital education has worked well, and that they have also got more independent and quiet jobs. We should not ignore that either. At the same time, there is much evidence that more students have fallen behind in school in the last year, and that there are considerable differences between municipalities and schools. We're worried about the long-term consequences of this pandemic. The coordination group assessing the provision of vulnerable children and young people states that there is reason to believe that many students experience a lower benefit from the training. The Korona Commission came last week with a similar warning that home school contributes to less motivation. This is a very big problem. There is once again reason to say that there is a big difference in how it has turned out, and I also know that it is the municipalities that are closest to assessing what measures are right for their students, especially when the pandemic has been so different from different places. At the same time, I would like to discuss with the Council of State what initiatives we can take from the State and the Stortinges side, and how we can work together with the municipalities to put in place power measures for various student groups that have worn out. I want to draw out maybe especially four groups. There are pupils who have been given special education decisions, there are pupils in primary school who are dependent on basic skills, there are students with high levels of absence, and there are professionals. To start with, we have over 9,500 students who lost a lot of special education in the autumn of 2020. Fortunately, it's less than we feared, but there's reason to think that the schools have staffed with unqualified assistants, and that maybe the content of special education has been somewhat lower. The government has set in motion a permanent and high level of competence for special education, which will work over several years, but I wonder if the Council of State thinks it may be necessary to engage in dialogue with the municipalities to strengthen the team around the students now, and perhaps also to move employees from PP services, from health centres, from other local authorities more into the schools in the near future, so that you can be there when young people come back, both for those who need special pedagogical follow-up, and also for those who are struggling with mental problems after the pandemic. The other group I want to draw out is students who haven't broken the reading and calculation code, maybe especially on the small step. Because it's very demanding to learn to read on Teams, and then also social background and the fact that you have parents who read to you will have more to say. What I'm worried about is that these students come back to school, normally, and then they fall behind and lose the mastery feeling in the subjects. The youngest students form a very quick impression of whether they're good enough at school. The youngest students know if they master at being a student. What I'm afraid of is that if they first feel that they're losing the sense of mastery, it sits in and reproduces later in school. We know, for example. among students who are at the lowest level of national tests in grade 8 only complete 30 pst. secondary. In Oslo, as I know well, the development of reading and billing at high school has gone wrong two years in a row. There are several students who are struggling with basic skills, and there are major differences. This is despite the fact that fewer students need specific Norwegian training, and despite the fact that the government has given Oslo more than 900 teachers. When the pandemic gets to the top of this, and it particularly affects schools that have many students with a minority background, and that need specific Norwegian training, we know that it's going to be demanding to go back. And we know that they're going to have to start as early as possible in school. So I'm going to say that I woke up to a very good news today, that the government and the government are bringing another 250 million. kr to municipalities to resume lost learning. This comes at the top of the 500 million. The municipalities have arranged different summer school services. For example, Oslo has $54 million. kr. But if we are to succeed, we also have to demand that the municipalities use this money properly, that you work systematically to identify how the students are doing, and that you give priority to basic skills. I am concerned that this money, for example. Oslo offers summer school services, is going to create good courses in math and Norwegian with high quality and learning effects and not just spread to different measures with varying quality. That almost 200 municipalities did not apply for funds to arrange summer school offerings for their students, I must also say that not all municipalities are on the ball, simply. When we give 500 million. kr to the municipalities, it should be expected that everyone, each of them, will apply for support. I also hope the Council of State has some thoughts about how we can mobilise and cooperate with the municipalities in order to strengthen the efforts of the next few years, whether it is to provide intensive training to students who are looking for, to find out how it stands at each school, to put in action, to arrange summer school and homework, perhaps to give introductory courses to students in high school who have weak grades, and perhaps also to those students who start high school with quite a lot of knowledge gaps. We must not forget that what has been for us over a year with pandemics, for high school students have been half their youth in a pandemic, and it has great consequences. The third group I want to draw out is students who have had higher absences under the pandemic. I am particularly concerned about this, because we see that there is often a direct link between absence and non-response later, but not least also with regard to absence and whether you get support and follow-up from home. It's one of the most important factors for the students' professional learning and social situation in school. I think it's surprising that we don't have a better overview of absences. Oslo, for example, was able to set up a new register to register absences in a pandemic, which means that they do not know how many students have been present at school in the last year. In Hedmark, most students have been physically present at school, but their overview indicates that there has also been much higher absence in the autumn of 2020 than in previous years. Of course, it's related to the infectious diseases councils, but I think it's also related to the fact that our students lose some motivation during the pandemic. It's incredibly important to get the students back to school. It is also important to ensure that municipalities and schools have good systems to register absenteeism among students, so that action can be taken at the moment of absence. In conclusion, I would like to hear the thoughts of the Council of State on professional life. This is where the government has granted 350 million. kr in the Education Commitment to increase the apprenticeship allowance. The offer has been made to those who do not receive a course. They were offered at the school, and many of these measures were continued this year. It has been quite invaluable for the number of apprentices who were outsourced, not changed quickly in a short time, even in 2020. However, there is no doubt that some of the professions in which there are many lacking apprenticeships, for example: Food, restaurant and, in particular, travel, will have been hit for a long time. The question is, what do we do for those students who have started, for example: travel lifeline, so that they can have a job to go to when they're done? So I want to say that what I hope we learn from this pandemic is the importance of prioritizing correctly in Norwegian school. For the most important job, we did before the pandemic: that 40 000 teachers have received further training, that we have introduced further training in special education, that we have over 4000 more qualified teachers and many more staff in school health and health centres, that students who fall behind in reading, writing and billing are given an intensive follow-up to their school, and that they have systems and procedures in place. It's also incredibly important to be ready. The technological school bag, which has provided funding for digital learning materials and competences, has also had an impact in a pandemic that has turned out so quickly and so differently. The last thing you need right now is to depriorize reading, writing and billing, and to remove transparency about how the students are doing, or to remove the stakes on the Teacher Lift. But there's no doubt that we're still facing a pretty big challenge in the next few years, with the students who are going to experience the long-term consequences of a pandemic. By doing so, I am delighted to hear the judgements and reflections of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e1974	I share the concern of representative Tybring-Gjedde in his interview, and I am also pleased with the opportunity to discuss this issue at Stortinget. There is no doubt that many children and young people have benefited less from training as a result of the pandemic. For some students you can almost go as far as to say that it has been a lost school year, while there are others who have hardly noticed anything. This may make it extra demanding that there are so many differences in both how hard the pandemic has turned around the country, and how well it is handled. What I think is the most important thing to think about is that those who, for different reasons, are already most vulnerable, and who, for different reasons, are in danger of not completing school, are also those who we feel quite certain that the most severe of all is being hit by this pandemic. It is clear that the most important thing we can do for all children and young people is to keep kindergartens and schools open and in as normal operations as possible. This has been the government's priority throughout the pandemic. Compared to quite a number of other countries, Norway has also been quite successful in keeping schools open, most of the time, but it is clear that the offer has not been as much physically as elsewhere. Kindergartens and schools are important for the development, learning and mental health of children and young people, and there is a place where they are seen. The closure we carried out last year and the time after has shown very well how vulnerable the school is to prevent vulnerable students from getting caught up and getting help from other services. It's not always the school that has to provide services, but it's often in school that they're seen and caught up. However, sometimes it is necessary to introduce measures to protect the health of children, which require schools to close physically. Since the closure last year, legislation has shown that those with special needs will be offered a local offer. As a general rule, students who have decisions on special education or language training shall receive the offer resulting from the decision. There shall be very good and demonstrable reasons for discrepancy between offers that students are entitled to, and such assessments shall always focus on the best interests of the student. I am very happy that there were improvements in the offer this fall, compared to what was before the summer last year. There were several students who got the hours they needed, and the schools were more able to protect the special education offer. At the same time, we need to take some reservations, mostly of numbers, were collected before 1 October 2020. Then we had a relatively low infection rate, and after that, there are some high-schools that have been lucky enough, and others that have been on a red level over many months. We'll get new numbers during this spring, and this will be one of the areas where we're going to be extra careful. The government is constantly working to remedy the difficult situation for those who need it the most. During 2020, more measures have been put in place to compensate for physically closed schools and long-term infection prevention measures, and this effort will be reinforced in 2021. I am, like the representative, concerned about whether the dropout in secondary education will increase this school year. We've all heard the stories about the black screens and teachers who don't get in touch with the students, and it's obviously a lot harder to follow up students who are struggling, when you can't physically meet them. Through the Education Commitment, which was already in place in the revised national budget last year, a wide range of measures have been put in place to get more people through higher education. The county councils received, among others: 150 million. kr to offer an adapted training offer to graduates in secondary education who are missing from the diploma. That is essentially students who had lost their rights, who had used it up, but who then had an opportunity to continue anyway. Last year, 170 million were also granted. for measures to enable students to resume lost learning as a result of a reduction in physical provision at school. And in the first six months of this year it's set at another 160 million. kr to it. Here we have received reports from the Education Directorate that show that this money has arrived. They have been spent on what we thought they should be spent on, whether there is intensive training, whether there is increased teacher density to follow up more students, whether it is for special education — the kind of offer directed at those students who have the most needs, and it is very nice to see. Another measure intended to compensate for the consequences of infectious diseases is the provision of summer schools, as the representative also mentioned. It's given half a billion dollars from the state for this. The goal is to give children and young people an arena where they can participate in both professional, social and cultural activities and have an opportunity to resume lost progress. And I agree with the representative: I hope that many of these summer schools will also offer the students professional opportunities, so that this can be an opportunity to resume lost progress. We know that the pandemic has made it harder for young people to learn, and that there are a lot of apprentices who have stayed in their training. That's why it's also worth 100 million. kr extra for grants to apprentices who are at risk of being permed or losing their place of learning. We see that flexible training offers are very important and are particularly adapted to new graduates and young people without much job experience or who are unemployed and on leave. That's why it's also worth 140 million. NOK to scale up that type of offer. So far in the pandemic it's in addition to all these earmarked sums also granted billions of dollars to the school owners, and we're going to grant more if it turns out there's a need for it. Figures obtained from the local government sector show that, overall, additional and minor income related to the pandemic is well compensated for in 2020. Of course, it is important that the money comes out so that we can maintain good offers for children and young people. That is why I have sent a letter to all the country's rapporteurs and county rapporteurs that the funds should contribute to the greatest possible presence at school, including at the red level. Together with the Minister of Health and Care I have also sent a letter to all kindergarten and school owners with the same message. Otherwise, we are constantly working on a good and up-to-date knowledge base on students' learning outcomes and the implications of the pandemic for children and young people. The latest report of the Coordination Group on vulnerable children and young people points out that there is no basis for a wide-ranging change in measures restricting children’s access to kindergarten, school, services and recreational arenas. I agree with the Corona Commission that it is now important to facilitate that all students have the opportunity to resume lost learning. I have already started that work, and I have received useful input into the process of preparing the next kindergarten and school year. I want to continue the good dialogue we have with organisations in the sector. We are also in the process of assessing the long-term impact of the pandemic and infectious diseases on children and young people. In this process, it is important that we play together with the school owners, the municipalities and the organisations, because it is those who have to carry out the job and who have to carry out the promise we need. I think we can already establish that there will be a need for increased effort over a long period of time, because there are some children and young people being hit extra hard. In the revised national budget, the government will propose 250 million. for measures such as: can provide more teachers, intensive training or additional offers before or after school. We're going to give those who have experienced knowledge gaps and lost learning an opportunity to take back some of what they've lost. It is undoubtedly more important than ever that children and young people have as normal a life as possible. Exposured children and young people become particularly vulnerable when they are unable to participate in the professional and social community at school. Many of the students in need of specific organisation may need even more support and follow-up at school in the future. In addition, more than before the pandemic will need additional help and support. Now that we are gradually and controlled to re-open society, we will continue to give priority to children and young people. They shall not bear the burden of the burden of action in the control of the pandemic. So, like the representative, I'll end up saying that much of what will be all, most importantly in the future, is some of the heavy stakes that we've been working on over a long time, for example. the promise we are about to make in special education, where we are just doing what the representative pointed to, and moving resources from government offices down to schools, down to the municipalities, and raising competence. We are in the process of gaining that level of competence, and there may be good reasons why it should be strengthened because of the pandemic, for example. That the promise must happen faster than what we originally planned for. We should also look at whether an even greater part of the enhancement of competence through Quality Competences should also be focused on special education, on the enhancement of skills related to basic reading, writing and computing skills and that kind of thing. For the most important thing is the competence of the teachers who are in the classroom every single day. So building on the bets that we already have, that we know that works, I think maybe will be an important part of the recipe in the future. Then we have to discuss what kind of bets to initiate nationally, and what we think is best solved locally. Because there is no doubt that there are very big differences. There are a lot of municipalities with big, comprehensive challenges, and then there are other municipalities that have become quite sane through this pandemic, and we also have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2018	I think the Council of State, especially at the end, made a very good point. There's a difference between what we're going to do nationally, and what we're going to do locally in the future when we see that it turns out so different, and also when we see that there are some groups that have long-term consequences of a pandemic. I think there were many interesting and good points here. It is quite obvious that, on the appropriations side, last year — and they will also be revised — the municipalities have considerable resources to be able to follow up their schools. The 500 million. I think that summer school offers are very important in order to create activities during the summer holidays and also to be able to create offers locally according to the challenges you face. I'm going to take one example: swimming training students in many places have actually not received it. It is clear that these municipalities should be able to assess whether to offer courses to their students during the summer. Governments indicated that by 2020, they had set a total of 170 million. Extra kroner. It is quite right that many of the measures taken were more teachers, environmental workers and intensive training for students who were attached, and there was homework and the purchase of equipment, such as computers for students who did not have it at home. So it seems that the municipalities in 2020, especially in the exceptional situation they were in, handled it in a good way. But then we're back to what's the long-term challenges, which is how to be able to follow up these students over time when we get back to normal. I feel that when it is going to be very clear to the municipalities that the students are going to be at school, that message has been received in a good way, and the municipalities have done a very good job. When, for example, However, if the educational situation required some more digital education, and it was possible to do so, many called for an alarm. But it turned out that the municipalities have had mostly ordinary education and wanted to have students at school. So that's very good. But the question in the future is again how we can secure and help municipalities to take their role as school owners seriously, and perhaps especially to do two things. One is to follow the obligation they have to intensively train students who are left in reading, writing and billing in 1–4. class. It's an obligation that's reasonably new, and how many schools have routines and systems in place, but where we still don't know the full effect and how it's actually followed up in classrooms. The other is absence that I was in. How can we ensure that the municipalities have the procedures in place? We know that absence is the first indicator that something's wrong here, where the motivation has fallen, where the knowledge gaps have begun to grow. In terms of monitoring, which is one of the measures I want to discuss, the question is: how are we going to make sure that we know what is going on in Norwegian school? This is a good example of insufficient state screening tests and of the time to look at new opportunities to find out how the students are.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2033	I thought I could use this post to go a little bit closer to some of the things that are demanding, and that have been demanding, and that have made some of the measures we have given money for, perhaps not come up in the volume that we had hoped for. Because, as I explained in the post, it has been made up of quite considerable funds both to the county councils and to the municipalities to compensate for some of the negative effects of the pandemic. But we have seen that there have so far been some challenges in ensuring that these offers have reached the students. The representative mentioned in his introductory statement, for example: a professional professional in the food and restaurant sector who may have experienced that the restaurant industry has been shut down for some time and that it is also likely to remain so for a long time in the future. The government has granted extra money to improve the quality of Vg3 in school, but it is clear that setting up such an offer — if the government comes with money in the revised national budget — is not something you can do to improve the quality in a month or two. There is no doubt that there is quite a great deal of work to be done. Some county councils have done well, others are not – and this is not to blame, because it's a huge task. When we don't do it normally, we can't stick it on our legs in a short time, in the middle of a pandemic, when the school sector is already very demanding. It shows that some of the compensatory measures we have tried to implement have been put in place, but not all. Then it becomes important that we now spend time well towards the next school year, and hopefully it will be a school year that is not so strongly influenced by infectious measures that this school year has been. This will also facilitate the implementation of several types of compensatory measures, as more students may then have normal education. I think the representative is raising something interesting, because the municipalities and the school owners in general already have a number of obligations, such as the statutory right to intensive training. Then you can think that if there are now more students who need it, it's something that's sort of automatically fixed because we've legalized it. But it's clear that we're not sure if all the municipalities follow the legal requirement well enough, and there's no doubt that it obviously requires resources. Because if you're going to give extra follow-up to some students, it requires that there are people there to do the job. The fact that there are also people who have the skills we need is also a limiting factor in how fast we manage to escalate that kind of offer. That's why I'm also a little concerned that many of the promises we're going to make are going to be long-term bets over time, because we might need to spend some time building up the offers, so they have the quality that's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2042	The situation at school and for children and young people in general has been of the highest priority since the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic. Norwegian schools are among those that have been most open in Europe through the pandemic, and I am pleased about that. The Minister of Knowledge and the Government have promised to provide the best possible protection for children and young people. The government has set up both with additional resources and with the adaptation of the framework. Extra billions for municipalities and resources for school and kindergarten activities, as well as all the means for action towards high school, have enabled municipalities and county councils to adapt both education and school life as well as it has allowed itself to do over a very demanding year. The Minister of Knowledge has also followed up the municipalities to make sure that they have done what they can to strengthen training in kindergartens and schools through the pandemic. But unfortunately, there are big differences in how municipalities have spent the money, and in what extent and in what way they have reached kindergartens, schools, students and teachers. The fact that the Minister of Knowledge has had a good plan and has been able to have a good dialogue with the school and kindergarten sectors on an ongoing basis, while at the same time introducing the necessary measures, is a very strong strength. For the Left, it is a great deal of security that the Minister of Knowledge started the process last spring and worked to ensure that students can resume lost learning, and that schools and kindergartens are listened to to to get important recordings for the next year of kindergarten and school. There is considerable funding for students to resume lost learning, and I am sure that the government and the Minister of Knowledge will continue to strengthen this effort for children and young people in 2021 and beyond. But there's no doubt that we have to follow up on this for a long time to come. For many, the year we have behind us has given us major challenges, and it has potential consequences for their schooling and learning for a long time, and therefore it is so incredibly important that action is taken quickly. The most important thing is that we get as normal a day of work and as normal a day of school as possible, as quickly as possible, but at the same time students must quickly have the opportunity to resume lost learning, and we who are elected must look further forward. We need to follow up both kindergarten, primary, secondary and higher education to ensure that children, young people and students do not face the challenges they have had this year and that there will be no lasting challenges in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2055	There's good reason, as the interpellant was about, to be concerned about what the last year has done to children and young people. I think a lot of kids and young people feel like they're hanging out at school, they have less social networks, little leisure activities to go to. I think many of them know of a loneliness after the year we've been through. There have been long periods of home schooling, quarantine and digital education, seas if one from Norway has managed to keep schools more open than many other countries. However, when children and young people are lagging behind, differences within the group of children and young people also increase. Those who have it difficult before often get it even harder. Those who have a hard time at home get one more tougher everyday. This shows, for example: that in many municipalities the number of child protection concerns has increased sharply. Those who may not have been so socially active initially become even less socially active. I think there's going to be a lot of gambling from high school and up, and then it's not much to do in leisure. I think a lot of people feel an arrogance about their own situation. This applies to maritime high school, high school and high school, but I think it applies to the entire school cycle from high school to the students. The study that came up about the students' situation recently is also a serious concern signal about how it is among Norwegian students, and I think we are going to experience that many of those who were first-year students last autumn are now going to fall from during the spring. I think it is important, as the interpellant also pointed out, that a study of the situation of children with special needs and also of young people in a professional field and the situation of apprentices. I think there are three groups that are particularly vulnerable. Getting the opportunity not to lose educational rights and at the same time the opportunity to quickly resume lost learning is very important. Then it is easy to point out that you have granted money, and then there is a doubt whether the municipalities have followed up. Then one should also remember that during this period the municipalities have had formidable tasks and taken enormous responsibility in very many areas, and built up an apparatus in many areas. I think they all, most municipalities have done what they can to take care of the schools and the students' situation, and also to try to strengthen the team around the student. Then there are also big differences between municipalities, seafaringly, because there are some municipalities that have had a much tougher situation than many other municipalities. Swallow if you're going to be good at trying to put in action measures that allow you to take back lost learning, I think we also have to accept that someone is going to spend longer on completing the education course that they're in, whether it's for someone who might have to spend a year extra at high school, or to finish high school. I also think it is important in this period to register absences, so that one has the best possible overview of who risks having a big gap in teaching and thus risks falling out, but I also think it is important that a person stays away from strict rules of absence during this period. It won't make it easier for those who are already struggling. So I'll finally stress that the most important thing we can do, at least in the rest of the period we have pandemic, is to keep the schools as open as possible. Then it's interesting that there was a report from the FHI as late as today that shows that home school doesn't have a better effect on the infection situation than the so-called red level gives. In fact, red levels should also be designed in such a way that as much of the teaching as possible takes place physically at school. At that time, the red level would be a more proportionate measure for children and young people than the home school would be, while at the same time there would be no worse impact on the infection situation in the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2074	This is a very important matter and a very important debate, and I will commend the interpellant for taking it up. Then I think that both the interpellant and the Council of State are able to be nuanced in this and not cut all students and all schools and all geography over one comb. I think what characterizes this situation is that it's been very different for the individual student in terms of geography. There are many places in Norway that have barely marked the pandemic, while in the central Oslo area and the Gulf, in particular, there are many places that have been particularly hit — for a long time — by this. I also think we can now conclude that it has been right to prioritise children and young people in this situation. It has been right to give priority to attendance at schools, especially when this goes out in time. There has been a great pressure to close schools, especially from many who felt that open schools would lead to the development of infection and so on. So holding on to the priority of children and young people has been demanding — but it has been right. It'll also be important, I think, to identify and identify the consequences of the pandemic in terms of students and schoolwork, in a systematic and thorough way. I don't know who's going to do it, or when it's going to do it, but I think it's going to be an important step to figure out. When it comes to taking back the lost things quickly, I agree with the previous speaker that I think some will spend some time on this. Although it's important to take back the lost as quickly as possible, I think it's very important to be aware of how tired people in school are. The leaders are tired, the teachers are tired, and many students are also tired. So what many students want first of all now is a little bit of corona-free. Then it is important to look at the long-term consequences of mental health and action that need to be taken in this respect. It is demanding when many municipalities use health nurses for coronary work rather than having them at school, and it is demanding when many children stay at home for too long without having contact. So building up the team around the student and revealing the consequences of mental health becomes important. One point that rarely comes out well enough is that digital education can be adequate education. Yes, for many, it actually feels like a better education. They get calm, they get to focus on schoolwork in a good way. So for many, it has been experienced as a good education, and at least not as a lost school year. It would be to exaggerate a lot. I am very pleased that the government continued tools for the profession and work to get more apprenticeships in place this year as well. It's important. But in view of the completion reform, it is worth noting that Vg3 in school is not an area where more and more efforts should be made. It is not mainly because Vg3 in school does not lead to results — about 70 pst. It also completes – but most often because so many thanks no. In the Week, the county council has experienced that it had to double the number of places in Vg3 in school last year, but half of the students actually rejected that offer. So for the students, it doesn't seem like a full offer, because that's not what they want, they want an apprenticeship. I think it's an important cross of thought to take along, also into the work on the completion reform. Then I think it's important to continue the good dialogue that the Council of State has had with the county councils, to get feedback about where the shoe is pressing, and what you need help with. That dialogue must also include compensation, because it has not been sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2093	I think this has been a very good and nuanced discussion, and it is delicious to be in such a debate, especially on such an important topic. I agree with the representative Arnstad that our municipalities have had a lot of tasks at the same time. There has been an exceptional state, and for many municipalities it has been primarily about being able to deal with the disease protection situation in schools. Fewer people have had the opportunity to think more long-term about what we are doing now to renovate the offer for the students who are following, with more long-term consequences. I hope that's what we can kind of kick-start a debate about here today, because it's really our job to start it. It's about having systems of absence, it's also about talking about the quality and competence of the offer that's in the schools. I think it's very interesting that the Council of State is talking about our plan to have a permanent level of competence for special education, and maybe we can also look at how we can provide that work, so that we can make changes to the classroom more quickly by moving more employees into the schools. I ended so far with questions about mapping. I don't feel that the big solution around now is to start mapping at the moment that the students are in school. It's getting too simple. The principal at the Westli School says that the first thing they should do is to remove the screen, have no TV-sitting during the break. They're going to play board games, they're going to talk, they're going to use the language to get good language training. It's the most important thing for them. At the same time, it's clear that we have national tests only in the fifth grade, and that it's starting screening tests that only show the 20 pst. by students who are below a critical limit, we do not provide very good information on how it is really happening throughout the childhood, when we are about to give priority to action in the future, including what we should give priority to national initiatives and strategies. I'm very happy that the Council of State will start a process of looking at other ways of having a quality assessment system, because I think that's going to be important in the future. I want to end by saying that what I think is perhaps the most worrying thing about the pandemic, is that social differences are increasing. The students who are able to stay at home to work with the subjects often have a greater degree of self-discipline than we know that some students have. The students who don't have it may be those who don't have parents at home to push them the same way. So the fact that you get lower motivation, and that some of the students may have less ability to work self-disciplined with the subjects, is what I think we need to be able to compensate for when the schools are back in normal operation. Then we again need quality of the offer and systematic work with basic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2106	Like the inter-pellant, I too would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it is nice that the representative Jacobsen, as I know also has other roles in the political system, helps confirm that there has been a close dialogue between the state and the government and the school owners. It has been very high priority for us, precisely because it is in the municipalities and county councils and in the individual school that the job is done. We have to play teams. This has also been a very difficult situation to deal with. We have gained more and more knowledge along the way that we have had to build on, and adjusted the measures. It's interesting that we're just presented today with a new report from FHI, which shows that there's a lot of evidence that, for example, running schools at the red level provides infectious protection as well as full digital education. It's very useful lessons for us to have in the next few months, but we're not going to rule out that there may be situations in the next school year that make us get a different reality from what we hope for, and that we've actually developed a tool to run schools in a pandemic -- that tool we didn't have before, now we have that tool -- I hope that means that we release closed schools in the future, and I hope that the knowledge that FHI here presents is also used locally in the very difficult decisions that school owners have to deal with increased infection in their community. So hopefully, fewer students will be affected by very strict and comprehensive quarantines and school closures in the future, because we get that kind of knowledge. I would also like to say that many of the measures that have been promised here today as they are currently being implemented are, of course, some of what the government has proposed in our completion reform for higher education. That means we have to get up the speed of introducing it. As with the extended right to secondary education, obviously, I think, it will be extra useful in a situation where there are students who experience lost learning and who may need to spend one more year, but who would not have done so in a normal situation. So there's an interesting discussion about this with Vg3 in school. Yes, we see that students choose that away. But it's Vg3 in school that we've given them up to now. The question is whether we are able to give them an offer that is more experienced as a proper compensation for what they don't get when they don't get the apprenticeship space. In the vgo reform, we have put forward a proposal to develop what we call a two-year curriculum, which is much more similar to the offer given to the apprentices. The hope is that such a scheme will be something to which the students also agree. Because I think this crisis has also shown that having a guarantee of apprenticeship would be almost impossible in a period when the individual industry is almost totally shut down. So thank you for making good recordings, I'll take them to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2122	With that is the interpellation debate in case no. 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2140	A few years ago I was visiting the Kampen Omsorg+ here in Oslo in connection with Oslo Pride. The Care+ campaign was a care centre run by the Church’s Bymition with its own apartments, common areas with canteens, social activities and not least the daily staffing of health professionals. The fight Care+ appeared to me as a great place to stay when you may have come to life that you do not completely dry or want to live alone. Unfortunately, the fight Care+ has now been taken over by the municipality and has become something quite different than it was, but there is another debate. The Care+ fight was then known for having many LHBT residents, and that was also the background for my visit. They had their own rainbow evenings, and they took part in Pride. I talked a lot to one of the people who worked there, and I asked if there was anything she saw as a challenge now that there are growing older in society. Then she said that they had recently got their first resident with HIV infection. This had created some uncertainty in some of the employees who were involved in infectious diseases. Then I checked about this and also contacted HivNorway for more information. Today, 4 300 people live with HIV in Norway. 98 pst. of which they are medicated and non-infectious. So we can estimate that about 50 pst. of those who live with HIV today, are over 50 years old. This means that more and more of them will increasingly come into contact with the health service, and they will need care from the municipality. They're going to need everything from home help to nursing homes, and they're going to need specialist health care. It is also so that many of those who live with HIV today have lived with it for a long time, they have been medicated for many years, and they have a body that is a little bit more tired than the average of them at their age. The early editions of medicine were not as good as those they have today. In other words, we have a group of people who are increasingly going to knock on the door of healthcare. This is a situation that too many employees are new, perhaps especially in hospital homes, and lack of knowledge can unfortunately lead to unjustified fear. HIVNorway has a wide range of stories about cases where HIV positives are met with unwarranted fear of infection and gross discrimination. This may include unwarranted measures to prevent infection, such as double gloves and reduced body contact. An example from HivNorge is from relatives to an elderly man who lives with HIV and lives in a nursing home here in the East. He was recently moved from one nursing home to another. At the first nursing home, the relatives were very satisfied with the care. On the other hand, they experienced that the employees had placed a yellow contagion triangle on his doorstep. The man concerned is well-medicaled, with no detectable virus and therefore not infectious. This is, of course, a breach of professional secrecy, but it is also a sun-clear example of the lack of knowledge that affects some areas of health care. Such treatment does not give you the good professional care that we all want to give to our older people. In the 2021s, it's easy to forget what it was like in the 1980s and 1990s. I don't remember much when the HIV epidemic came, and I don't think the generations below me either. We've heard the stories, but it's not a big theme today. Now there's also something that we have quite a lot of control over, and there's few that get infected today, so that's maybe why it's been a little forgotten. It's in many ways a good thing, but for those who experienced this, it was both tough and traumatic. I got a new look at this myself when I saw the TV series It's a Sin, which is about a bunch of young gay people who lived in London in the 1980s. They had traveled into town from small places where they couldn't show who they really were -- into the big city, where they could be themselves. That a group that was initially stigmatized at the time was to be hit so hard by such an epidemic had very ugly consequences. They experienced discrimination from health care, from funeral homes, and from friends and family. Some of it was due to the fact that they were young homosexuals, and that at first they thought this only hit them, but much was also, of course, due to the fear of a very deadly virus and not least to the lack of knowledge of how it infected. There were also very many who died. Of those who survived and who live with HIV today, several have experienced stigmatisation, fear and not least loss of partners and friends. These are the same people who are about to take in the nursing homes in a short time, and then they will not be reminded of the time that was, with double gloves and warning triangles on the door. They don't deserve that, and that's not necessary either, because as long as they're medicated, they're non-infectious. In the last few years, HivNorge has been working together with Diakon Home Dialogue on special talks and seminars for pioneers, i.e. those who received HIV in the 1980s and 1990s before the drug came in 1996 – despite the fact that we did not see a future, we see a future ahead of us. This is a group that struggles with both somatic health disorders and mental traumas after they survived despite bad odds. This cooperation is an example of follow-up, because we need more knowledge of HIV among health professionals. I could frame up more examples from HivNorge here today, there's a lot of them. Although I have now focused on care for the elderly, there are examples of this also in the specialist health service and with young HIV positives. The most important tool against fear is knowledge. Then we can influence attitudes, and we need that in health care, in educational institutions and around the lunch table every day. It is important that both skilled and unskilled personnel are properly deployed if they meet users who live with HIV, whether young or unskilled. In the years to come, we will need more health professionals, and we will be training more and more. It's a good opportunity to increase knowledge of HIV. What will the Council of State do to ensure that people living with HIV are met with an equivalent health care offer and to ensure that health professionals have adequate skills and knowledge of HIV infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2165	Thank you to the interpellant for raising an important question. Following the general availability of effective antiviral medicinal products in the mid-1990s, the situation of HIV infected persons has improved significantly. HIV has gone from being a fatal infection to being a chronic disease. People infected with HIV today who receive good and fast treatment are likely to have as good and long lives as the rest of the population. A recent survey shows that over 98 pst. of those living with HIV in Norway today are receiving antiviral treatment. An almost equal proportion do not have measurable virus in the blood and are therefore not contagious. They cannot transfer HIV sexually to others, and they can live normally, without the need for specific infection prevention measures. Therefore, for services, specific measures need not be taken for patients with known HIV infection. Basic infectious disease protection procedures apply when working with all patients, regardless of suspected or confirmed diagnosis or suspected infectious status. Basic infectious practices are based on the principle that all body fluids, including blood, may contain infectious agents. Basic infectious disease prevention procedures are therefore also responsible for the prevention of blood infection. For many people living with HIV, effective treatment has been life-changing. Sexual life has changed for the better, and not least many have experienced a liberation from stigma and alienation that has followed living with HIV since the 1980s. Today, more than half of those living with HIV in Norway are over 50 years old. Gradually, more and more people will need health care for conditions other than HIV. Therefore, healthcare needs to have a good knowledge of HIV and HIV infection in order to meet these patients in a good and dignified way. In 2018, Fafo presented a study in which they asked people who live with HIV and who are over 50 years old, about their experiences and how they perceived the challenges ahead. The relationship with healthcare was an important part of the study. It could seem that the stories of insanity, discrimination and excessive infectious regimes were largely in time, fortunately. Another finding was that the main challenges of healthcare were to see the overall situation of these patients and to meet them with interest in seeing the link between the different health challenges. It is easy to focus on HIV in the patient meeting, but it is important that all health challenges are taken seriously, whether they are HIV-related or not. As the interpellant sees, many of these citizens have experience in health care since their 50s and 60s, and this can change when they get older and meet with the municipal health and care services and care services. Although it is relatively rare for the central health authorities to be notified that people living with HIV are being exposed to unwarranted infectious disease protection measures in the healthcare system, it cannot be excluded that it does so, and not least that there is a risk that it will be increasingly occurring in the future when they are in need of healthcare from people other than they are accustomed to today. In general, however, health professionals have good competence and follow current procedures. For example, Oslo University Hospital has worked systematically to reduce over-infection among employees. Among other things, they have established an HIV resource group, which is a multidisciplinary collaboration between infectious medicine and the food department in order to ensure that those born with HIV infection are correctly received and treated. The Health Directorate is aware that several organisations in the HIV field are constantly receiving individual notifications of unwarranted infection from users or health professionals seeking advice or knowledge. Voluntary organisations make significant efforts to increase knowledge and expertise on HIV and how to meet HIV live people. Both HIVNorway, the Church's Bymission Accept and Life with HIV and other organisations make important contributions in the form of guidance and training. In order to meet the demand for knowledge of care services, HivNorge has now started a special schooling of its Hivinformants on the elderly and nursing HIV. Centres for Professional Development and Research and Development of Hospitals and Home Services in the Municipality of Oslo have cooperated with HivNorway to develop online training and materials to disseminate knowledge about HIV, and what it means to get older and live with HIV. It is distributed approximately 23 million each year. DKK in grants from the State budget for targeted work related to HIV. One objective of the grant scheme is to contribute to the overall care of HIV-infected persons. In recent years, measures and projects that may improve the conditions of the elderly living with HIV and people who have lived long with HIV have been given special priority. There is every reason to rejoice that the HIV situation has improved dramatically in recent decades, but constant attention needs to be paid to health professionals’ knowledge and attitudes to people living with HIV. There is also a need to continue to work to eliminate stigmatisation, prejudice and lack of knowledge of HIV infection across the Norwegian community. Very many people who are HIV positive still live without telling this to their closest, just in fear of what it should lead to from reactions. We need general information for the whole population that people who live with HIV and who are medicated are no longer infectious, and that therefore there is no need for special measures to prevent infection. The management of health institutions is responsible for ensuring the appropriate competence of their staff. Health authorities must ensure that infectious material is kept up-to-date and reflects the actual infectiveness situation. Patient and stakeholder organisations must continue their important and good work, and the authorities must continue to support this, including financially. Patients who: of course, the possibility to deal with this with the management at the place where they receive treatment and to obtain the help of the medical representative in the county, who provides that kind of help. The goal, of course, is that everyone should be met in an equivalent and respectful manner regardless of HIV status.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2197	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for his answer, and I fully agree with him that this is something we need to focus on all along. I hope that's also something he's involved in the dialogue with both health companies and FHI. I think this might be an opportunity to look at the training on infectious diseases, and I also think that more municipalities around the country should be able to look a little more at the organisation of care for the elderly, especially given that we are now going to have more users with HIV. This may particularly apply to Oslo, who should take this particularly seriously, but it also applies to other big cities, where most people with HIV infection today live. But it's not just the older ones I'm worried about, although I think it's where the challenge is greatest now, because that's where the situation is a little bit new. HIVNorway also has more examples of patients entering specialist health services who are being met with excessive infectious disease control measures. For example, it is born every year. about 15–20 children of HIV-positive women in Norway. None of those children have been infected at birth, thanks to today's effective medicines. It has therefore been sad to hear about women who have been met with excessive measures to prevent infection, such as birth control equipment. In a birth, which is a demanding situation, there is no need for any additional stress or stress. That's why I was also very pleased with what the Health Minister said about setting up a separate resource group for this, and in particular that it's at Oslo University Hospital. I think that's important, and I think that can help, hopefully, to secure more women who are HIV positive who are going to feed. But when this has now happened – because it has happened several times; it happens in between, even if the routines are there – I hope that more municipalities, and perhaps also the health companies and the FHI, will take a new round of infection protection procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2208	I agree with the interpellant that this work must continue and be reinforced. Many of the positive examples she refers to are from Oslo. This needs to be spread across the country, and there is a need for increased attention to be paid to this issue, in particular to the local health and care services, for which the inter-pellant was involved. In this area, we have to play on teams not only with the good professionals we have working in this area, but also with the different voluntary, non-profit organisations, who do an invaluable job and can work systematically in this area. That's why it's so important that we all support their work further and raise the issues here in Stortinget, as the interpellant has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2215	With that is the interpellation debate in case no. 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-26.ana.ud365e2230	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
