ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e111	For the sake of infection prevention, the President will propose that the public gallery be closed even during today's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e118	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Harberg. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Harberg is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative of Mona Fagerås will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e127	Then I will, on behalf of the deposit representatives Audun Lysbakken, Freddy André Øvstegård, Lars Haltbrecken, Karin Andersen, Eirik Faret Sakariassen and myself, promote a proposal for a representative for a free SFO. Furthermore, it is a representative proposal for a more practical and varied school day, presented by the staging representatives Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Nicholas Wilkinson, Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Petter Eide and myself. Finally, I would like to promote a representative proposal from Freddy André Bestegård, Nicholas Wilkinson, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself on the right of completion for students who have had a lot of absence and digital school due to covid-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e136	The representative, Hans Andreas Limi, will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e141	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Helge André Njåstad, Jon Engen-Helgheim, Silje Hemdal, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Tor André Johnsen and myself, I would like to propose a simpler and better housing market. Then, on behalf of the big-time representatives of Erlend Wiborg, Per-Willy Amundsen, Kjell-Børge Freiberg, Helge André Njåstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure more predictable rules for extinguishing water requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e148	The representative of the Bears Moxnes will put forward nine proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e153	On behalf of Red, I am promoting proposals for profit-free welfare. I am promoting proposals to replace the health business model with democratically controlled hospitals where patients' needs come first. I am promoting a proposal on the local hospitals in the interior. I propose that the Riksrevision undertake a separate examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the choice of the fighter aircraft F-35. I am promoting a proposal to stop degradation by nature. I am promoting a proposal to stop subsidies leakage and ensure increased activity and work in Norway. Furthermore, I am promoting a proposal for a stronger social security network with lasting improvements in the day-to-day pay system. Secondly, I am promoting a proposal to increase the level of organisation of work and to ensure more permanent jobs. Finally, I am promoting a proposal to ensure better framework conditions for a powerful trade union movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e175	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, will put forward two representative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e180	On behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Audun Lysbakken, Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås, Arne Nävra and myself, I would like to make a proposal to evacuate several asylum seekers from Greece in 2021 and to strengthen assistance in Bosnia. In addition, on behalf of the big business representatives Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra, Eirik Faret Sakarisassen, Kari Elisabeth Kaski and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the necessary measures to ensure water and sewerage.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e187	The representative of Morten Stordalen will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e192	On behalf of the representatives Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to ensure that ALS-sickness, dementia and others with severe diagnostics are given a ‘right to try’. Secondly, on behalf of the representatives of Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Silje Hemdal and myself, I would like to make a proposal on national guidelines and reporting obligations in the care of the elderly to combat violence and abuse against the elderly. Finally, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Himanshu Gulati, Sylvi Listhaug, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself to ensure that MS patients are offered stem cell therapy, either in Norway or abroad, funded by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e201	The representative of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e206	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Morten Stordalen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Hans Andreas Limi and myself to grant official authorisation to naprapates, osteopates, paramedics and logopeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e211	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present five proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e216	On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Sandra Borch, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Siv Mossleth, Ole André Myhrvold, Liv Signe Navarsete, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal for increased value creation and employment in the Norwegian food industry. On behalf of Marit Arnstad, Nils T. Bjørke, Heidi Greni, Geir Adelsten Iversen, Siv Mossleth, Liv Signe Navarsete, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal to strengthen Norwegian travel life beyond the Koronapandemi and to secure Norwegian ownership of travel businesses in Norway. On behalf of the biggest representatives of Heidi Greni, Siv Mossleth, Kjersti Toppe, Jan Bøhler and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative on the classification of electric scooters and their local authorities' right to regulate the operation of the electric bicycle company. On behalf of Geir Adelsten Iversen, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to lift the ban on the breeding of ants. On behalf of Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Ole André Myhrvold, Sandra Borch, Siv Mossleth and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative to invest in Norwegian film production, in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e229	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e234	On behalf of the representatives Karin Andersen, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals to secure the shrimp industry raw material. On behalf of the representatives of Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I am delighted to present proposals for the establishment of the EnvironmentFUNN. And finally, on behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, the Bears of Moxnes, Per Espen Stoknes, Arne Nävra and myself, I am delighted to put forward proposals to initiate the implementation of the North Norway Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e243	The representative, Mr Wiborg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e249	On behalf of Sivert Bjørnstad, Jon Georg Dale and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on more independence in the courts in the handling of the case of civil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e254	The representative, Siv Mossleth, will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e259	On behalf of the big business representatives Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Bengt Fasteraune, Ole André Myhrvold, Sandra Borch and myself, I would like to propose an increase in the local ring effects of the protected areas and Norway's national parks. On behalf of Kjersti Toppe, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to propose recruitment of health professionals and nurses to the municipal health and care service. Then I would like to propose to the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself a reinforced effort to deal with bone brittleness and prevent fractures in the elderly. And then I would like to make proposals from the representatives of Marit Arnstad, Marit Knutsdatter Strand, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen, Kjersti Toppe and myself on the further follow-up of the six-year reform for a better transition between kindergarten and school and the liquidation of controversial surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e270	The representative of Terje Halleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e275	Then, on behalf of the big business representatives Erlend Wiborg, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Tor André Johnsen, Helge André Njåstad, Gisle Meininger Saudland and myself, I would like to promote a proposal for a representative to remove the State barriers to the increased production and use of biogas.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e280	The representative, Mr Hemdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e285	On behalf of Tor André Johnsen, Morten Ørsal Johansen, Helge André Njåstad, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Bård Hoksrud, Himanshu Gulati, Morten Wold and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for family support, historic hotels and dining places.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e290	The representative, Sivert Bjørnstad, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e295	On behalf of Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Hans Andreas Limi and myself, I would like to propose a more investment friendly Norway. On behalf of the representatives Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Erlend Wiborg, Hans Andreas Limi, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I would like to make a proposal to reduce the administrative costs of business by 20 p.m. by 2025. And on behalf of the representatives of Tor André Johnsen, Erlend Wiborg, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I would like to make suggestions to allow people over 16 years of age to sell alcohol and tobacco products.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e304	The representative, Gisle Meininger Saudland, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e309	On behalf of the big business representatives Helge André Njåstad, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Erlend Wiborg, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I would like to make suggestions to ensure that the facility is user-oriented. And on behalf of the big business representatives Helge André Njåstad, Himanshu Gulati, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Terje Halleland and myself, I want to propose global and national measures for cleaner seas and plastic handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e317	The representative, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e322	On behalf of the representatives of Per Olaf Lundtigen, Ole André Myhrvold, Geir Pollestad, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I would like to propose a green state investment company for the green carbon-based industry. On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Ole André Myhrvold, Marit Knutsdatter Strand and myself, I would like to make a proposal to strengthen Norwegian savings banks. And on behalf of Bengt Fasteraune, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a permanent solution to the small aircraft activity in the Oslo area and the aircraft protection centre at Kjeller.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e331	The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e336	On behalf of Jon Engen-Helgheim, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the initiative to amend the law so that municipalities and county councils do not have the opportunity to pursue local foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e341	The representative of Mr Geir Adelsten Iversen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e346	On behalf of the major representatives of Sandra Borch, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Siv Mossleth, Geir Pollestad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to ensure that the regional policy objectives of fisheries legislation are implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e351	The representative, Nicholas Wilkinson, will present five proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e356	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen, Freddy André Øvstegård, Kari Elisabeth Kaski, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Lars Haltbrecken, Eirik Faret Sakarissen and myself, I would like to propose a dental reform to enable everyone to smile widely, by equalising dental care with other health services. On behalf of the representatives of Freddy André Øvstegård, Mona Fagerås and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a public body to investigate a new higher education recording system. On behalf of the representatives of Eirik Faret Sakariassen, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the equality of the law on drugs, psychiatry and somatics during hospitalisation in treatment institutions. On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Freddy André Øvstegård, Arne Nävra, Mona Fagerås, Eirik Faret Sakariassen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the inclusion of work in front of profits and offers in Nav's action apparatus. Finally, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of Mr Faret Sakariassen, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, Mr Kaski, Mr Elisabeth, Mr André Øvstegård, Mr Fagerås, Mr Andersen and myself to correct in social welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e369	The representative, Mr André Johnsen, will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e374	I have the pleasure of presenting more things of pleasure. The first is a proposal from the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Terje Halleland and myself to build simpler and cheaper bike and walking routes. The second proposal is from the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Helge André Njåstad, Erlend Wiborg and myself to make it easier to install information signs along Norwegian roads. Then I will present a proposal from Bård Hoksrud, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen and myself to introduce a category B driving licence for a quadricycle for 16-year-olds. The last thing is a proposal for a representative from Bård Hoksrud and myself to increase the allowed speed for mopeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e387	The representative, Freddy André Øvstegård, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e393	I would first like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Petter Eide, Arne Nävra, Karin Andersen, Nicholas Wilkinson, Mona Fagerås and myself for care, not for child protection. Then I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Karin Andersen, Mona Fagerås and myself on a strong and independent cultural administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e400	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg will present four proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e405	On behalf of Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the necessary changes to the waiting list registration and the deadline interruption system. Furthermore, on behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal on values for the Norwegian healthcare system. On behalf of the representatives of Ole André Myhrvold, Jan Bøhler and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the state part-financing of the work of Maridalens Fänner in Oslo to realise the state-adopted management plan for the Maridalen Landscaping Area. Finally, I would like to make a representative proposal from Liv Signe Navarsete, Ole André Myhrvold, Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Nils T. Bjørke and myself that the mentoring system in Nav be extended to agricultural establishments that employ workers residing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e416	The representative, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e421	On behalf of the representative Kjersti Toppe and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the increased recruitment of municipal psychologists. Secondly, on behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Per Olaf Lundtigen, Ole André Myhrvold and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for increased national and international efforts to combat the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e428	The representative of Terje Aasland will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e433	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Lise Christoffersen, Åsunn Lyngedal, Tellef Inge Mørland, Kari Henriksen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a pilot programme for Industry 4.0. On behalf of the representatives of the big business Eigil Knutsen, Åsunn Lyngedal and Cecilie Teresa Myrseth and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on the fairness of economic crisis measures for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e440	The representative Per Espen Stoknes will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e445	What is needed now is two suggestions, in particular one that Norway should be given more sustainable food, increased self-sufficiency and lower meat consumption. The second thing I have the pleasure of presenting is a proposal that Norway should be able to become a global leader in climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e452	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e457	On behalf of Sylvi Listhaug and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to give the police access to the introduction of visitation zones in particularly criminalised areas. Furthermore, on behalf of the big-time representatives Solvency Horne, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Silje Hemdal and myself, I would like to make a proposal to remove the limitation period for sexual crimes against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e465	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e470	On behalf of Tor André Johnsen, Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Erlend Wiborg, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Jon Engen-Helgheim, Silje Heimdal and myself, I am delighted to propose to ban the use of tolls by bicycle, public transport and urban development. On behalf of the representatives of Tor André Johnsen, Himanshu Gulati, Helge André Njåstad, Silje Hemdal, Erlend Wiborg and myself, I will make a proposal to delete the toll debt.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e477	The representative of Liv Signe Navarsete will present three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e482	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundtägen, Åslaug Sem-Jacobsen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to draw up a holistic defence plan to achieve the objectives set out in the UN Agenda on Women, Peace and Security, the law on equality and the prohibition of discrimination and the labour law. Secondly, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives Emilie Enger Mehl, Geir Adelsten Iversen and myself to address the situation of the NH90 with the aim of finding a solution to secure the adequate capacity of the Coast Guard. Finally, I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Åslaug Sem-Jakobsen, Jan Bøhler and myself on the state contribution to the refurbishment of the old war ball in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e491	The representative, Roy Steffensen, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e496	On behalf of the representatives of Silje Hemdal, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Terje Halleland and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on predictability and security of petroleum research. On behalf of the representatives of Åshild Bruun-Gundersen, Bengt Rune Strifeldt, Morten Stordalen, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Silje Hämdal, Himanshu Gulati and myself, I would like to present a draft representative on the escalation plan for health education. On behalf of the representatives of Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Silje Hämdal, Terje Halleland, Hans Andreas Limi and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the profession of value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e505	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e510	On behalf of the representatives Petter Eide, Nicholas Wilkinson, Lars Haltbrecken and myself, I would like to make a proposal that Norway should take a leading role in the fight against deadly autonomous weapon systems, killing robots.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e515	The representative, Heidi Greni, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e520	On behalf of the representatives of Sigbjørn Gülsvik, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Liv Signe Navarsete, Nils T. Bjørke, Ole André Myhrvold, Geir Pollestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to amend the state planning guidelines to facilitate growth and development throughout Norway. Then I have on behalf of the representatives Per Olaf Lundteigen, Kari Anne Bøkestad Andreassen, Sigbjørn Gjelsvik, Jan Bøhler, Nils T. Bjørke and myself the pleasure of presenting a proposal for a fair housing policy in the village and town.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e527	Then, of course, it would be tempting for the president to ask if there should be anything more before we shut down. [[Laughter]] Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox Case No. 1–10 is the second reading of legal cases, and the President will propose that cases be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e648	This concerns Law 87, where during the treatment there was a linguistic inaccuracy in one of the paragraphs. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Financial Committee, that Law No 87 be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e655	The representative Svein Roald Hansen has taken up the proposal for a legislative remark. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-10. Case No. 11 and 12 will be treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e688	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will arrange the debate as follows: 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to five lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e695	On behalf of the case rapporteur, Björnebeck-Waaagen, I want to explain the settings. The background to the case is that in January the government closed the borders with Norway. The aim was to prevent the importation of infection and to limit the risk of spreading the significantly more contagious variant of the coronary virus. The consequence of closed borders was that people living abroad and working in Norway have not been able to travel to work. Many non-resident workers therefore have no income as a result of the restrictions on entry. From 1 March, it was opened for the entry of non-residents resident in Sweden and Finland as a day commuter to work in Norway. In the proposition we are discussing here today, the government proposes to introduce a new scheme, with financial compensation for foreign workers affected by the entry ban. The benefit will be paid as sickness benefit and will follow the health insurance rules as far as possible, but with a degree of compensation of 70 pst. It is proposed that employers promote the benefit of the employees and require reimbursement from the seat of employment and welfare. The Government has the authority of the People's Security Act to give temporary special rules to the people's rights in regulations. Compensation for workers in the form of sickness benefits can therefore be regulated in the regulation. In the proposal we are discussing today, it is proposed that a legal basis be introduced for the employer to advance sick pay to the workers affected by the restrictions on entry, in order to obtain reimbursement from the social security. The proposal also proposes to increase the allocation to the Labour Inspectorate, as a result of the new tasks of the Labour Inspectorate linked to the follow-up to the protection of workers or contracting entities. The Labour Inspectorate is also entrusted with the task of establishing and operating a system of prior authorisation for quarantine accommodation by the employer or the contracting entity. As can be seen, the different majority are behind the different parts of the recommendation in the cases. I would like to explain below the position of the Workers' Party in the cases. The Labour Party has long asked for a system of financial compensation for workers who are prevented from coming to work because of closed borders. On 18 February, the Workers' Party was voted down when we proposed a system of financial compensation together with the Centre Party and SV. The Government Parties and the Advance Party voted against. During the night the workers stood without income. These are people who have worked, paid social security contributions and taxed in Norway. They have contributed to our safety net. In other situations, workers had rights in Norway: in the event of sickness, they were entitled to sickness benefits; in the event of a permit, they were entitled to a daily allowance. It has been unnecessary for the government not to have previously put in place a system which has ensured the security of income for workers affected by the restrictions on entry. Border closures have been debated for a long time. But the government has by no means had it busy in this matter. The price pays workers who have been without security of income. When the government closes its borders, it should of course be that the Norwegian authorities ensure the security of income for workers who have acquired rights in Norway. The burden on workers has been imposed, could have been avoided if the government had been better prepared. Closing the borders has unfortunately not been an improbable measure. Nevertheless, the government has not ensured that the arrangements for financial compensation were in place when the borders were closed. I am pleased that this arrangement will finally come into place. Individuals and families have been in a very difficult situation since borders were closed. The bills have arrived, but without the opportunity to go to work in Norway, many have ended up in an economic crisis. Compensation for workers in the form of sick pay will be regulated by regulation. Here the government must ensure that a safety valve is provided to ensure that workers who are not compensated by their employer. Now that the employer is given a gunnery duty, it is important that it becomes short-lived. We therefore assume that the government does not impose unnecessary financial burdens on the companies. In a response to us, the Council of State has clarified what is the right to refuse benefits. The Workers' Party considers the clarification given by the Council of State to be important and agrees that unnecessary travel should not give entitlement to benefits and that this is specified in the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e712	In order to limit the spread of the mutant and significantly more contagious variant of the corona virus, the government introduced the necessary restrictions on entry into Norway in January this year. As a result, workers living abroad but working in Norway have not been able to travel to work. There are workers with acquired rights in Norway who contribute to the Norwegian economy and provide the necessary labour in Norwegian business. In their utmost consistency, these workers contribute to securing the jobs of the Nordics, as Norwegian enterprises are just relying on this workforce to ensure growth and value creation. So it's right and important to ensure compensation for the frontier workers, and I'm glad that this is now in place. Thanks also for the statement on behalf of the rapporteur, although I disagree that the government has not been in dialogue with the social partners to find a solution here. But I have also noticed that someone is trying to create a false contrast between an income hedge for non-resident workers and Norwegian business interests. Let me stress that it is in the interests of Norwegian industry to maintain cross-border, competent workers so that they can continue to contribute to Norwegian value creation that secures Norwegian jobs, including for Norwegians, in Norway. It is therefore fully possible to make changes to, for example, the permitting legislation – even if I do not recommend it – and to vote in favour of this solution. For example, an enterprise in Eastfold, which employs workers who commute from Sweden, needs this workforce to maintain its own production. In other words, these employees contribute to securing the jobs of the other employees of the company. In addition, this production may depend on purchases of other goods and services locally in Eastfold, thus helping to secure other jobs locally in Eastfold. All Norwegian enterprises are part of integrated ecosystems of goods and services that depend on each other to function. I like to call this a healthy market economy. But when the state is forced to intervene in this ecosystem to save lives and prevent the spread of infection, it also intervenes in the premise of just a healthy market economy, and the chances of survival of businesses. The government and the Storting have compensated for this in almost all possible areas, just to save jobs and ensure future value creation across the country, now also for those who depend on border commuters in Eastfold. Border areas act as a common labour market, and the Nordic authorities have just facilitated mobility and labour since 1954. At that time, the Nordic governments stressed that it is a fundamental right for Nordic citizens to take up work and settle freely in another Nordic country, and that this pays off both for individuals and for society. This was further reinforced by the EEA Agreement. Several Norwegian and Swedish regional competitiveness studies conclude that regional capacity for regional magnification and interconnection is important to stimulate economic activity and to make the region more attractive to individuals and businesses. In other words, ensuring cross-border commuters working in Norway is not only investing in the future competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises but also investing in the region where border commuters commute to. The government was early in dialogue with the social partners to seek out a scheme for cross-border commuters. I understand the criticism that the scheme will be late, but it is also such that the workers who are outsourced as a result of the restrictions on entry can receive daily benefits. However, this has not been the intention of the social partners to make use of it at closed borders. Another criticism I understand is that the companies that can already face liquidity challenges are going to advance the money. However, urgent procedure shall ensure that this is done as painlessly as possible. However, employers have also chosen to pay their employees, despite the fact that they have not been able to cross the line of employment. They will now receive reimbursement for what employees have been entitled to, and that is good. It is also good that the system that comes with strict control frameworks, with requirements for evidence in general and related to testing and residence in particular. Ex-post controls will also be carried out to detect abuse of the scheme, and the Right considers it important to ensure that exceptional emergency measures are not exploited. So I just want to end by repeating what I said: caring for frontier commuters who work in Norway, in other words, is not just investing in the future competitiveness of Norwegian companies, but also investing in the region border commuters commute to. This is good for the individual, and it is good for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e737	Politics is about prioritizing. Even in these times we've been through the last year, it has to be given priority. The Progress Party has long waged a fight against welfare export. There has also been a fight several games in this room have shared. They have agreed with us that we must limit the export of Norwegian welfare services. The basic principle of the Progress Party is that Norwegian welfare benefits should go to Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway. Because that is the way every country is responsible for its citizens. There is no primary responsibility for citizens living in other countries. Of course, where you choose to live, there are consequences — benefits and disadvantages. Then we have this matter for consideration today. I would like to begin by congratulating the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left on having made the government turn – because in February, the government parties, together with the Progress Party, voted down the proposal for the Central Party, the Labour Party and the SV to put in place a system like this. This is especially true: it is charged to spend over a billion dollars each month, to be transferred to Romania, to Latvia, to Poland, to Sweden, to Spain. At the same time, we see episodes of Ulrik in four years that require surgery and treatment in order not to become blind. But no, you can't afford that. The majority refuses to strengthen the rules on leave, although it can secure and secure Norwegian jobs, but no, it is not possible to do so. We have a hard-pressed business, and you choose to shift the cost to the business world, that they're going to shoot over a quarter of a billion women every month. This is a Norwegian business that is already under heavy pressure. You say you should get a refund and get this refund from Nav. Yes, once in the future they will get that money back. But there is a difference between politics and business. Businesses live from day to day – they need income from day to day. When revenue fails and liquidity is strained, it is complicated to get a bill of over a quarter of a billion dollars each month, which businesses have to shoot. So this also leads to a significantly increased load on Nav. The Council of State and the Government themselves write in the proposition that this entails considerable, large resources for manual processing. 500 new applications every day, in a situation where we know that Nav already has unreasonably long queues. These are people who depend on getting the decisions in place to have money for their living, or businesses that need to get refunded expenses they have had. They should now be pushed back in line, because the bulk of the population chooses not to give priority to Norwegian workers or Norwegians in need of assistance and support from Nav. So you choose to give priority to workers living abroad – I see you try to camouflage it with a lot of cross-border commuters. Although the State Council did not directly inform the Stortinget, the Progress Party has received answers to questions from the Council of State about who will benefit from this. The vast majority of this money will go directly to Eastern Europe – then over 63 pst. Of the 80,000 people who expect to receive this money, live in Eastern Europe. Then it's about priorities, which I started with. The promotion party believes it is wrong to spend more than a quarter of a billion dollars on workers living in Romania, Poland, Latvia, Spain and Sweden. It is their country that is responsible for them, and then our responsibility is to take care of Norwegian citizens and others who live and work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e752	First, I'd like to address the proposal of the Center Party. The Progress Party is too uncontrolled labour immigration; they are strong supporters of getting cheap labour from Eastern Europe, so what Mr Wiborg said has no credibility when we see the whole of the Progress Party's policy. What has happened is that we have made ourselves dependent on good, diligent workers living abroad to get practical work done in Norway. This applies to both skilled and unskilled people. The main reason is, therefore, uncontrolled labour immigration from the EEA territory, from countries with much lower pay and working conditions and high unemployment. Over the past 10–20 years, this has led to a very large proportion of foreign-based workers in many practical professions, especially in low-paid professions. Many of these skilled workers are today characterised by government and NHO as critically important labour, and this is a good example of our weakened readiness to do what we need here in the country. On 29 January, the Government introduced strict restrictions on the entry into force of the Regulation on restrictions on the entry into force of foreign nationals in the interests of public health, in order to prevent imports from Norway, and on 26 March the Ministry of Justice and Security adopted a revised circular on the entry into force of the Regulation on restrictions on the entry into force of restrictions on the movement of aliens. The restrictions on entry and the severe transmission of infection in many countries make the situation in the sectors that have become dependent on foreign-based workers very difficult today. At the same time, restrictions on entry lead to the exclusion of workers with employment in Norway from their work in many cases. As a result, they lose all labour income. The centre party therefore proposes that the government ensure that the compensation scheme applies to employees who were outside the Norwegian border on 29 January of this year and who our authorities do not grant permission to enter into their work. This means that if, after 29 January of this year, the foreign resident worker has chosen to travel to his country of origin for no particular reason and then has not been allowed to return to work, it is not reasonable for him to come under the compensation scheme. In order to nuance it, we also promote a proposal that workers such as for special reasons, for example: disease, birth and burial in a close family, must return to their country of origin, be able to enter Norway when the situation arises and thus do not need to be compensated. The reasons for the attitude of the Centre Party are obvious: the employee is familiar with the strict restrictions on entry and must therefore know that leaving may mean that one cannot return to work. Furthermore, for employers with foreign workers, the government's proposal would mean that they would lose workers without being able to replace them within a reasonable time. By a compensation arrangement of 70 pst. the loss of income of the person travelling home and unable to obtain a new entry permit will be less burdensome when one knows the level of costs in many Eastern European countries. The Party supports the amendments to the Law on Social Security, which gives compulsory protection in the event of compensation to workers affected by the restrictions on entry. But we have a strict delimitation, as opposed to the Workers' Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Christian People's Party. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the following conditions must be fulfilled in order for enterprises and employees to benefit from the compensation scheme: written contract of employment from before 29 January of this year; the employee must have been in employment for at least four weeks before 29 January; the employment must be registered in the Aa register; the employee must have paid or pay taxes to Norway. The centre lot cannot see that this compensation mechanism is justified in the EEA Agreement. The government’s justification seems to be that a person who is part of the Norwegian welfare system but who is resident in other countries, and not only in EEA countries, is compensated for loss of income due to restrictions on entry. Following the assessment of the centre party, the EEA Agreement, EEA law, is such that it does not require or impede such a scheme. The central party disagrees with the government and the Labour Party that the scheme is part of the Norwegian welfare system through the EEA Agreement or other bilateral social security agreements. Finally, the centre party believes that it is unreasonable for the employer to have to pay a procedural fee for the application procedure imposed in cases where the employer provides accommodation suitable for the implementation of the quarantine. The employer already has heavy burdens during the pandemic, and such a fee would be incorrect. We therefore disagree with the fact that the fee for an approval scheme for accommodation should be 20 million. kr to the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e773	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e778	When the boundaries were cut, it hit both the working life and the workers hard. We have heard a lot about border commuters, those who work in Norway, but who live on the other side of the border, and who, because of the border link, did not have the opportunity to meet up at work. This group fell between all chairs and remained unsecured because they were neither permittated nor ill. But they didn't get to go to work. Gong has repeatedly been called upon to add this group, which is working in the Norwegian health care system, in schools and kindergartens and in the construction industry, to have a right to a living income. Therefore SV also proposes earlier this year that border commuters who could not enter the country to work due to off-line borders would have to be included in schemes that ensure financial compensation. But the government voted us down and replied several times that they were evaluating the situation on an ongoing basis. It's starting to describe how the government is dealing with this crisis, that they're finally, after months, coming in, and they're just setting up a system that the left-hand parties have been asking for for a long time. It is good that there is a solution in place to ensure that employees are not standing without income insurance from January, but it should have come before. Border agents do not pose a major risk of infection, but they have not had any corrections since the borders were closed. It has been hard on both those added, the municipalities and not least those who depend entirely on border commuters to get to work. The treatment of this group is in stark contrast to the treatment of immigrants, who have actually been a risk of infection compared to those who live on the other side of the border and work here. It seems that the government has been completely blind to the needs of the border municipalities. Therefore, in connection with the crisis packages, SV proposes primarily to secure income for those who are not allowed to go to work, and to make exceptions for those who commute daily to work in Norway. It is Norway that has closed the borders, and Norway is responsible. It's a good thing there's a solution, but it's going to be a long way to go and it's not good enough. SV means the border commuters have to be compensated for lost income from refusing to travel to work. The situation of the border commuters has been serious for a long time, and the government has not done anything to find a solution. Many of them suddenly stood without both income and the right to economic compensation in spite of the fact that they have worked and the taxes to Norway and contributed to the Norwegian community. There is a reason to be critical that they have not been saved before. This was a matter in which the newly-dead LO leader Hans-Christian Gabrielsen was deeply involved. A little over a month ago, he said to the Free Trade Movement: ‘Despite the fact that we have started vaccination, we can come back in a similar situation. It's not unmistakable. Although it is now open that Swedish daily commuters can come to work in Norway, this is not over. For a month, several thousand have been in an unworthy situation without income. Of course, this has been a heavy burden on many of our members who work and pay taxes in Norway. Now the frontier commuters who have been without income, because they have not been allowed to go to work, have to be compensated." Of course, SV is completely in agreement with this. It is good that today, after too much money, we come to a solution. But this is what we needed to learn from. If we are to face a similar situation in the future, we need a system and solutions in place — both for the individual worker and for enterprises and communities dependent on cross-border commuters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e798	The coronary apathy has caused many inconveniences and problems in the year that have passed. Many workers from EEA countries have been prevented from returning to Norway due to restrictions on entry. It has been decisive for the government that a system to secure this group will now be put in place quickly. It is therefore proposed that the statutory code and regulations be adopted without a hearing. The new employee gives the right to introduce an obligation for the employer to advance sick pay to workers who are subject to restrictions on entry, in order to obtain reimbursement of social security. This will give a faster payment to the individual. The benefit will be paid as sickness benefit, but with a compensation rate of 75 pst. Access to entry to Norway was considerably strained from 29 January 2021. Many foreign workers stand for this without income as a direct follow-up to the disease protection measure. It is suggested that the compensation be granted from the time that the restriction was applied. The care of the individual worker here is heavy. Workers who work in Norway but are resident in an EEA country are assured to be able to make a necessary return journey without losing the right to benefits. Compensation shall therefore be granted in the courts in which exclusion from the country is involuntary. It is also important that the advance period does not be too long. Many employers experience a tight economy as a result of the long-term situation. Therefore, it may be very demanding for many to advance compensation to those added as cages abroad. There is also a danger that industries will be lost for the labour force, which has to a large extent been based on workers from other countries. There's a lot of care to take under demanding circumstances, like a long-term pandemic. This is the case for the individual worker who is refused entry to work. At the same time, there should be a safety valve in those compartments where the employer does not have the ability to advance. It will be necessary to carry out ex post evaluations and controls to identify possible abuses. The costs of this temporary compensation scheme are estimated at around 850 million. kr. It is then assumed that the restrictions on entry will last until April 2021. The Christian People's Party supports this special scheme that will provide security for workers and their family. This group will thus ensure a performance based on the contract of employment they have with the employer in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e817	The proposition under consideration today deals with changes in popular security. More specifically, it provides for the right to provide regulations for the employer in the event of compensation in the form of sickness benefits for workers affected by restrictions on entry. Furthermore, amendments to the State budget 2021 are proposed as a result of such compensation scheme. Changes related to the establishment of the approval system under the auspices of the Employment Inspectorate for Quarantine Accommodation provided by the employer are also proposed. The strict restrictions on entry introduced from 29 January are necessary to limit the risk of contamination of imports into Norway. At the same time, they have led to a very difficult situation for some workers working in Norway and living in other countries. They have not gotten to work and have thus lost income. The government has as its starting point that employee income hedges should be solved by means of the placement agency. Some non-resident workers have been permitted and received daily allowances, but not all. The assessments of the permit basis are also with the social partners and individual employers. From midnight on 1 March, we eased the restrictions by opening the way for day commuters from Sweden and Finland to come back to work in Norway under a strict testing and control regime. At the same time, there are still many who are affected by the ban and who have also earned rights in popular security. The government is therefore proposing to introduce a new system of partial compensation for workers who are unable to work in Norway because of restrictions on entry. The benefit will be paid as sickness benefit and will follow the health insurance rules as far as they fit, but with a degree of compensation of 70 pst. It is financed entirely by popular fear. The extra cost of population protection will depend on the length of the retention period, but is estimated at around 280 million. kr per month. In order to ensure a rapid start-up of the scheme and to facilitate administrative implementation, it is appropriate for the employer to advance the benefit to the employee and require reimbursement from the seat of employment and welfare. It is worth noting that this is an automated system at the seat of employment and welfare, and that the figure mentioned in 500 applications is about the other scheme for which there is an admissibility decision, namely the authorisation system for quarantine facilities for which the employer is responsible, i.e. a different scheme. The place of employment and welfare must be able to rely on information provided by the employer and it will not be possible to continuously monitor the reimbursement requirements, but at the same time we will be able to have back checks and inform them. It is important to prevent abuse of the scheme. Furthermore, rules will be given to refuse benefits to persons who have travelled abroad either now or in the event of future changes to the entry rules contrary to the travel council of national authorities. The government therefore proposes a basis under the National Social Security Act § 25-16 to be able to lay down such an obligation on the part of the employer. The employer shall thereby advance compensation in the form of sickness benefits when a worker is unable to face work as a result of restrictions on entry when there is an outbreak or a risk of an outbreak of a public infectious disease. The Government proposes that the amendment enter into force immediately and take effect on 29 January 2021. The effective date back in time means that the change is applied retrospectively to the employer who has to shoot 70 pst. of wages and salaries for the period back to 29 January. The change proposed here involves an advance for the employer of an amount significantly lower than an ordinary wage payment. The employer will also be fully compensated by the social security, and there is a significant degree of automated processing, which helps to ensure that the reimbursement requirements arrive at early payment. Here we have focused on having systems that provide liquidity challenges for employers as much as possible. The measure must be seen in the light of the serious situation we are in, the need to ensure effective protection of infection and the consideration of a group of workers affected by the entry ban and in a difficult economic situation. Against this background, it is considered that the changes are within the discretion of the legislator and do not conflict with the prohibition of giving laws retroactively in the Constitution § 97. There have been questions as to whether the right to benefits should only be granted to those who have resided abroad on 29 January and not to those who have left after that. The regulation will specify that persons who break the travel council of the national authorities may be denied the right to compensation. Administrations do not recommend as well-known travels which are not strictly necessary. The Ministry is in the process of detailing the details of the scheme in the regulation. With regard to the system of approval of quarantine accommodation by the Labour Inspectorate, there is a measure for better compliance with the quarantine rules. However, the general rule is that anyone entering the country for work should carry out quarantine at quarantine hotels. A derogation has therefore been granted, which is a narrower derogation, where it must be subject to prior approval by the Labour Inspectorate. It is the employer, or the contracting entity, who is applying for it. I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposals in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e857	There have been discussions throughout the harvest on the introduction of border closures and entry restrictions. Then is my question to the Council of State: what preparations were made in the Ministry before 29 January, and what dialogue was had with the parties before 29 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e862	During the fall, the ministry, together with other departments, had a review of several different scenarios. But as I have said here in the past, it will always be in an unbridled situation like this one-by-one situation that we haven't caught up with. - That's the one. Then, throughout this crisis, we have had ongoing contact with the social partners. As I said, there was a presumption in the ministry that the rules of leave here could be used. These are people who have earned rights. If they get a permit, if they have a allowance, if they get sick, if they get sick, if they get sick, if they get sick. This is not something that the ministry or state can decide on its own, it is the parties who decide. And it turned out to be a solution that it was not possible to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e869	Thanks for the answer. What I understand from the Council of State then is that on 29 January, the parties had not been cleared up about the law on permitting was what they could use. It could not be surprising that there were 80,000 workers commuting to Norway, on whom Norwegian businesses depended. So then nothing had been done to clarify with the social partners whether the permitting scheme was the solution. I understand that there may be some small things that are missing, but this is quite essential when you go to the step of closing the boundaries. Then I probably expected the Council of State to prepare and use the regulatory home that he received in March 2020, in order to create a solution that was in place when the borders were closed, and not now, two and a half months later. Why haven't you used the prescription helmet, and why hadn't you prepared for it before you actually shut down?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e878	I really just have to repeat my answer: during the fall, where at least there was a slightly better infection protection situation, there were repeated rounds in several departments where you prepared for different types of scenarios. In the case of the law on permitting, the parties are required to say something about the basis of permitment, and in and of individual employers as well. But it is true that there was not a clear agreement – it is said to be a bit self-evident – with the parties prior to the demarcation on 29 January, because then we could have used the permitation code. The reason why the government parties also voted against this early was because we looked at different types of solutions. But it has been shown that this was the only solution that was left to be realistically implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e887	I find it sad that the government, and especially the Right, is no longer necessarily a good ally in the fight against social security and welfare export, and that the government here has let itself be pressured by the Center Party, the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party to start giving sick money to healthy people as long as you live abroad. In its statement, the Council of State also made it clear that the government primarily wanted to change and improve the rules on the leave of foreign workers residing in Romania, Poland and Latvia. This was the wish of the government, while they twice voted in favour of proposals in this room to strengthen the rules on leave, which could help secure Norwegian jobs. Does the Council of State consider this a good priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e894	Not as the representative puts it, so polemic and rhetorical, but I think both of these things are right, even when you see the issues in context. One thing is if you close the borders a few weeks, but here's a situation where the boundaries are still closed after a long time, and people who have earned rights in Norway don't get paid. Some may be paid because their employer chooses to give it to them anyway, but it is limited how long Norwegian business can pay to people who the government says are not allowed to go to work. This affects many parts of business, not least parts of the working life of border regions, in areas such as Eastfold and Trøndelag, for example, to mention some, where we have also had stories about industrial enterprises frustrated by this. So I agree that in a non-profit world there would be other solutions to this, but this is the solution that's left, and then it's also the right one.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e903	During the committee's proceedings, we received written input from the NHO, and there, the NHO says that it is important to close the scheme in order to cover cases where: ‘[d]an employee has left the country consciously, knowing that one will not be able to come back and work. This may allow for speculation and for enterprises to lose valuable labour that would be chosen to remain in the country without the scheme.’ In the Council's reply to the Central Party on 22 March, the Council of State says that it is okay to return to their family abroad, sail if they are not given permission to return. The centre party has followed up the obvious objections raised by the NHO. In its articles, the Council of State decides not to comment on them at any time. The government decides not to follow it up. What is the reason why the government is not following NHO's obvious objection to what the government is now doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e915	That's probably the same reason that the Center Party doesn't always do what the NHO wants. We do not agree with the NHO in this position, and there are several reasons. First, to unnecessary travel: then you can be denied this arrangement. Then it's a reasonable question of what is necessary and unnecessary. With a long-standing boundary fence, we're going to think that it's traveling if you have, for example, family and young children, may fall within ‘necessary’. The second is the practice. This must be possible to actually practice. Many of the criteria taken up by the representative Lundtigen in his statement could have been nice to have, but it is not possible or practicable to create a system that has all of this in place, without it becoming enormously bureaucratic, more expensive and more complicated. The last thing is that it's worth remembering that this isn't inconsequential. Here you get 70 pst. on the basis of sickness benefits. That is, if you go out to visit family, and don't come back in, you lose a lot of your income. Remember, the sick pay basis is not 100 pst. of previous wages and salaries if you have high income.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e926	During this pandemic, it has been necessary, on a case-by-case basis, for the opposition to press the government to ensure good solutions for ordinary people. There is no exception to this either. In the past, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV put forward a proposal that: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that frontier commuters who are now unable to enter the country to work because of closed borders are subject to arrangements that ensure financial compensation.’ So it wasn't long ago. Then my question to the council is: why did the government party vote this down when a no thinks it's a good order?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e938	I have also replied to this earlier, but I would like to repeat it: we voted it down because we wanted to look at other possible solutions. Although the Storting, and it's in and of itself also a unanimous big thing, many times in this pandemic have made it so that we have to put in place completely new arrangements, it's not particularly ideal. It is often labour-intensive, it is highly uncertain, and the potential for abuse is high. It also applies to this scheme, as to all of these specific corona arrangements. We've been completely open about that. This can often lead to unnecessary waiting time and prolongation. Now this becomes a simple and unbureaucratic system, so I'm not so afraid of this. We wanted to look at all sorts of other schemes before we landed on this one, but at the end of the day there were no alternatives left – neither permitting, doing something for a selected group of them, or doing something through the municipalities were good arrangements. It must also be added, with all due respect for the Storting, that there is a difference between writing a request decision and examining and implementing a solution in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e947	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e955	The pandemic has hit Norwegian society hard, and it has been absolutely necessary for the Stortinget to go in and ensure powerful measures both to compensate businesses, self-employed and freelancers and also to provide workers with their jobs in Norway. Time after time, the arrangements that have come from the government have not been good enough, or they have not shown up at all. This is probably an example of such a measure. It's about workers from abroad who have their work in Norway, and if they had become ill, they would have been entitled to sickness benefits, and if they had been allowed to leave, they would have been entitled to a daily allowance. But when the borders were closed, the government had not planned a solution for them. I have to say that it is quite special to listen to the Progress Party on this matter. So they have been the leading figures for the EEA agreement and free movement of labour – that we should attract cheap labour from abroad to work in Norway – but when a person closes the borders under a pandemic, one should not compensate the people who have contributed to the creation of value and paid taxes in Norway. Of course, that's unfair. What also becomes quite special when a listener to the Progress Party is their mention of how we use public funds. So using a few hundred million dollars on this scheme is very problematic in the eyes of the Progress Party. But to spend billions of dollars through the EEA Agreement in EEA funds every year, going to a project on bird-catchers, going to fencing for people in Viking equipment, going to celebrate the day of the night – yes, that's fine. In the current year's budget, the Progress Party has signed a commitment to spend 5.7 billion. EEA funds for various projects in Eastern and Central Europe. It is quite fine in the eyes of the Progress Party, but to set up for workers who have been refused entry to Norway because of the pandemic, and workers who have contributed to value creation in Norway, so the Progress Party will not. But then it is important to put some restrictions on this scheme, and when people have voluntarily left Norway after 29 January, they have made a choice. If it had been a well-founded journey, linked to serious illness in your own family, death, funeral or birth, then it is a legitimate cause, and then one should also have the opportunity to come back in. But opening that door, as the majority here adds, by saying one should be able to leave Norway, and at the same time getting rights if one is denied entry again, is a clearly unreasonable device on the system, and there it would have been useful to follow up the recordings that NHO has also made.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e968	We hear in this debate a great deal of commitment from the right-hand side of business and Norway's need for labour. We hear relatively little from the right about the workers' needs in this matter. For whom is this really about? Well, it's about workers who have been invited to Norway to work, workers who have helped build the country and who have earned Norwegian labour rights. Many of them have already stretched very far and taken long and extra guards to help keep the wheels running, and many have not been at home or seen their family for a long time. This has been going on for quite a while under the pandemic. The concerns, especially from the right, came as some fear that new rights would lead to people going home and not getting back. We understand that some employers are concerned about this, and it is therefore important to keep looking at how to ensure access to labour and critical personnel in the field of good infectious diseases. But some of the reactions are to assume that this new regulatory framework will lead to abuse, and it says a little about where we've ended up as a society. Norway has become highly dependent on imports of foreign labour, while thousands of Norwegian young people are out of work. In a crisis, we see how vulnerable we have become. If we open the borders, increase the risk of infection, and if we close the borders, many businesses are trembling. Then solutions need to be found that meet the needs of both employees and employers as far as possible. For the Workers' Party, it is unacceptable that workers in Norway, wherever they live, remain completely free of safety nets. The party of progress calls this social security exports. They jump over the fact that these are workers in Norway. The progress party's message to these workers is therefore: we would like you to come here and work here, but if you have any problems, Norway will not stand up for you. Suspicion of their vision is a human vision that stands far from the social-democratic. The Center Party also reveals here who they really are. They believe that we should lock these workers inside Norway. People who have already taken a heavy burden have gone a long way for Norwegian employers and thus have not been at home or seen their family for a long time, so they should be locked in Norway. Who else would have accepted that? This attitude towards non-resident workers is similar to that of other countries with which we do not want to compare.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e983	It is true that we have made ourselves dependent on the labour force living abroad. It has been intended, it has been wanted by everyone in favour of uncontrolled labour immigration to Norway, which means that we no longer have a Norwegian labour market but an EEA labour market. Here's the Workers' Party's leadership of the leading people who want such a system, a system that makes us get more income, we get more in the low-wage professions. When the foreign resident labour force does not come into the country, there are a lot of problems in getting the job done, because there is too little payment for those who live with the Norwegian level of costs. The centre party wants a system change on this, and the representatives of the Workers' Party know very well about it. The central batch represents a balance between the employers’ and employees’ loads through the pandemic. We stand for that in general, and we stand for that in this case as well. We have therefore agreed to this scheme for those who were in Norway on 29 January. We have opted for exceptions related to personal circumstances in the case of births, funerals and illness in the immediate family, which is possible to practice. And we have clear criteria for getting under the scheme, criteria that are absolutely necessary for there to be justice and not opportunities for cheating in the system. We have raised the matter with the Council of State in order to clarify how the government and the Council of State view the situation that can and will arise when those who are in Norway travel home and do not come back. Then, on 22 March, the Council of State said that visiting a family is necessary and okay when living abroad, and so the Council of State says at the same time: unnecessary travel could mean losing the right to benefits. Unnecessary journeys – what is it? And for the record, the Council of State says that the system of the Centre Party is bureaucratic and difficult to practice. Then I will ask the Council of State to come up and define what is the difference between going home to their family and traveling back unnecessarily to a country other than Norway. The centre party has taken NHO's advice and recommendations seriously; it was good advice, and we choose to take good advice with ourselves, whether they come from the NHO, the Joint Alliance or who it is. Here the NHO is right, and the Central Party is the only party here today that has followed up the NHO's request.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e994	Fortunately, in Norway, we have a relatively good and strict control regime for the receipt of public benefits. You have a strict regime that makes sure that the benefits actually go to those who want them, who need them, and who make sure that people who are unjustly trying to acquire them are stopped. Therefore, I ask the Council of State to go up to the pulpit and tell us a little about what kind of control mechanisms he intends to have in order to check that people living in Romania, who are now up to the Council of State, will be able to get sick money from Norway — up to 70 pst. – e.g. do not get a job in Romania. Does the Council of State, together with the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the other parties in this Chamber believe that the strict rules which apply to the Nordics should not apply to the special arrangements they make here? It is especially to hear the Central Party in this debate. They're trying to create a polemic up to the right. But the fact and the vote afterwards are going to show the following: the centre party has been implemented here, they have pushed the government into place, along with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, and ensures a significant welfare export. They now ensure that – which we are not obliged to – more than a quarter of a billion dollars each month to Romania, Poland, Latvia and Spain. At the same time, the Centre Party refuses to strengthen the rules on permitting in order to secure Norwegian jobs. You can't afford that. Treatment for little Ulrik in four years, which is likely to go blind if he doesn't get treatment, they can't afford it. But over a quarter of a billion dollars a month, they can afford that. So the central party is on this pulpit and it says that this is a little bit of money. You have to have been in politics for a reasonable time if you're talking about over a quarter of a billion dollars a month being small money. It's huge sums for those who receive them. Now the majority of the population adds that in a couple of months, a Romanian citizen living in Romania will have earned a monthly salary. If this continues, he will have earned several months' wages from Norwegian taxpayers thanks to the fact that the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet and SV have got the government in place. I am asking the Council of State to come up and tell us what control regime he sees will apply in this matter. It's strange if there's not to be a control regime here, when he demands it for all the other Northmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1005	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1010	In contrast to the Progress Party, the Centre Party is a controlled labour immigration centre from the EEA territory. That's what's at the heart of the system we have today. So it must be clear to everyone what kind of basic vision the Progress Party has, despite the large and generous opinions of the committee chairman, Wiborg here. The centre party sees it as fair and reasonable that the employees who have a job in Norway, who were abroad on 29 January and do not come back, come under the compensation scheme. It's no more than fair and fair. Furthermore, in the case of the rules on leave, the centre party agrees that the employer's period should be two days and that it should be combined with full pay for the remaining eight days. Finally, the Progress Party is not in favour, because they have an unsocial policy with regard to workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1019	The representative, Erlend Wiborg, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1024	The representative of Lundtägen should perhaps be more closely involved, for the Central Party has twice voted in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party to improve the rules on permitting. We have proposed to go from ten to two days, as that is what the industry itself is asking for. That is what can help to strengthen Norwegian jobs, but that proposal has therefore been put to a vote, because the majority of the population, with the centre party at the head, have not agreed to prioritize it. I might see why the Center Party can't prioritize it, when they now prioritize spending over a quarter of a billion dollars each month on transferring money to Romania, Latvia and Poland. The representative Lundtigen claims that the Centre Party is for controlled labour immigration. Yes, it may be, but at least this case clearly shows that the Center Party is also for uncontrolled use of people's tax money.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1031	The case today shows that there is a large majority in this Chamber to ensure that non-resident workers who have an employment relationship in Norway pay taxes, pay social security contributions and are workers in Norway, are also to receive compensation, which is fair and reasonable when Norway closes them off entry. It is interesting to hear that the representative Wiborg is concerned with his proposals to strengthen justice in Norway. A proposal to give two-day employer's period without compensating employees will not be considered fair for so many of the employees who have to reduce their pay after two days. But in the case we have today, I would like to ask the Center Party also if they could say a little more about what is fair. The workers in Norway have done a great job – we hear that they have worked double shifts for a very long time to keep the wheels going. They will be allowed to come home if there is death or birth. But if they have any children at home, and perhaps have been in Norway for three months, is it right that they should not be allowed to go home and meet their family? That sounds pretty dramatic to me. We tend to hear other things from the Center Party when we discuss relations around Norwegian children. Why is it right then that those who are parents, who have been here in Norway and made an effort and paid their taxes, should not be allowed to go home and meet their children if they have been here for so long? I think the Central Party owes us an answer to that, because it's quite demanding, and they've done a lot of work. Then I'm glad that there'll be a majority, as I said, for a system that was about to come. I still think it is surprising that the government was not better prepared for us to close the borders, and that it could be a very topical scenario that should have been discussed more in the department. I don't think the council responded well in the exchange of lines we had. But I record that now at least the scheme is in place. It is absolutely necessary, and it is important that those who have now been without income for many months because we closed the borders get the compensation they legitimately deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1048	First, to the story of the representative Wiborg: it may be good to remind the representative Wiborg of who is responsible for the fact that one per day has an employer’s ten-day pay period. The Government Parties and the Support Party shall ensure that it has been increased again to 10 days. The centre party disagreed with that – we thought that there was too much burden on the companies, and we also thought that there should still be compensation for employees. Then, on a number of occasions, we have put forward proposals to reduce pay obligations in the case of leave, in combination with the fact that one should also take care of the workers. At the latest just before Easter, we made proposals to reduce the employer’s pay obligation by leave to two days, in combination with compensation of employees. That proposal was submitted in Stortinget Thursday before Easter. The representative Wiborg can sit here and shake his head as much as he likes, but instead he can go into the record from Stortinget's treatment and see that the proposal was made. So to what is about the terms of the arrangement: Yes, we believe there should be clear terms attached to the arrangement. If you have been to Norway after 29 January and have chosen to leave again, then there is a choice you have made. We believe that there should be some legitimate reasons to leave, and in the context of the overview we have mentioned, we have not said that there can be no other weighty personal reasons too – we have used funeral and birth as an example, but we have not said that it should exclude that there may also be other weighty personal reasons. But the fact that we are going to make it possible for workers to leave Norway again and not be able to come back again, and then a few such support schemes, we believe in the Centre Party is unreasonable. This is why we believe it is important that a balance be found here that both ensures that a worker is taken care of and that a system is actually in place that is capable of being practised and controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1060	When the representative Gülsvik puts himself as he does, saying that this is about people who have chosen to leave themselves, and that therefore they will not be given rights in line with what they have earned in the Norwegian labour market – it fills me with discomfort. It's a way of dealing with foreign workers that reminds us of countries that we don't want to compare with. Would other workers accept such an attitude? Would we at Stortinget accept such an attitude? Most of the big business representatives work in a place other than where they live, but not only do we expect our rights to be respected when we go home where we live, we even demand that the Storting pay for the trip. In the case of workers working in Norway who live in other countries, they must therefore stand on the ground if, after what the Centre Party says, they choose to see their children and visit their family themselves. I also think the Progress Party is quite selective when they choose which millions we cannot waste on, and which millions it is easy for them to waste. For example, the Progress Party will: do not hear of the fact that we are going to have a dividend limit on the billions that are now being granted in emergency aid to Norwegian companies, money that is unlawfully taken in which is not a crisis, but which is about taking a dividend. There won't be any restrictions in the Progress Party and happily spill millions out of the Norwegian community. But they want strict control to prevent workers from seeing their family in Norway. Yeah, it's okay that that human vision comes out. It is far from social-democratic. When it comes to setting up weak groups against each other, there is a long Progress Party tradition to do so, but I doubt that weak groups like that. patients themselves want to be set up against other weak groups. It's a polarization that I think people don't want to be abused by the Progress Party in. I think they'd rather ask the Progress Party why they've spent billions of dollars on tax cuts to the richest in Norway, cut in the wealth tax, instead of securing a worthy patient treatment for everyone in Norway. I am glad that the matter finds its solution. I am pleased that the right-wing government has seen the sense of what we wanted after a long period of reflection – too long. But the matter is a reminder of how vulnerable Norway is, and that we should work to increase the level of self-sufficiency of labour and provide our youth with our jobs, but at the same time how important it is that we constantly stand up to protect workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1073	The representative Sigbjørn Gülsvik has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1078	Based on what the representative Grande is now making himself high and dark on the platform here, it gives the impression that it is to be open to the employee to leave Norway at his own discretion, to be refused entry and to be eligible for this scheme. In the committee configuration, the Labour Party states: ‘These members agree that unnecessary journeys shall not give entitlement to benefits and that this is specified in the Regulation.’ So the Workers' Party also believes that one should set a limit. The question is what kind of limit should be set in this context. For people not to see their families: it is a challenge in this pandemic, linked both to travel out and in by Norway and within Norway. It is a challenge in this pandemic that very many people in Norway experience, so that there are limitations to it, is not specific to this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1090	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1107	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will organise the debate as follows: 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to three lines will be given with replies from the main speakers of the lots and up to seven lines with replies from members of the government. Those who had to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1118	This is an important day. The size deals with what will lead climate policy over the next ten years. We have spent a long time dealing with the matter, and the final result is very good. Regardless of what some journalists believe, or what some recurring participants in the climate debate may claim, the result should be positive. The type of analysis and rhetoric we have, among other things: have heard after the Committee's work has been completed, it should therefore be revealed that it is as relevant as a hydroelectric power plant in Spikersuppa, as interesting as the tenth ACER debate. This Communication is part of the overall policy that shows that we are achieving the 2030 climate objectives. That's a fact it's not possible to get away. And the Norwegian climate target is at the level of what the environmental movement has asked for. That is why I would like to thank all the members of the Committee for good work and cooperation. As I know, this is the largest position that has been delivered in recent times by a committee. You can think of it, but that there has been a nine-time work from all the parties, there is no doubt about it. I will give tribute to all the parties for the work that has been done. I have also appreciated the conversations we have had along the way. Not all parties agree on everything. It became obvious to most people early. But by an alternating majority, the main lines of government's climate communication are fixed. This means that here lies the leaders of the most offensive climate policy ever addressed by the Stortinget. Should a future government and a future increase differ from the changing majority here agree, then there must be other ways of cutting that give equal cut without harming the Norwegian economy, the welfare state’s sustainability or Norwegian jobs, and at the same time is a policy for conversion in Norway. Its methods have not become visible in the Committee's work. What is at the root of the years that remain until 2030 is, among other things, in brief. the following: increasing the price of emissions, facilitating the phase-in of new technologies and pursuing policies that help to secure and build Norwegian jobs. Some would call it cutting emissions, not evolution. The green tax shift that politicians with different party colours have been talking about for years will now be fully implemented. As you know, the government has already started that work. With the Government's plan, the majority of Stortinget undertakes to gradually increase the CO 2 tax to NOK 2 000 per tonne in 2030, measured in EUR 2020 fixed. This is not done to enrich the country, on the contrary. The overall level of taxation shall not increase. There should be relief as compensation, of course primarily for those affected by the increase in fees. In addition, the long-term objective is that there should be no revenue from the price of emissions due to a decrease in emissions. The work done with phase-in of low and zero emission technologies is further reinforced. This concerns both the requirements we make in public tenders, where we are going to increase the use of climate requirements, and also the fact that Enova is further identified as a climate action. This is a combination of instruments that we know works, as we know, that emissions go down, while we convert Norway. Time doesn't allow me to touch everything, but let me take something: a real green tax shift; more low and zero emission technologies increasing use of climate requirements in public procurement contribute more and better to business and industrial conversion; more use of sustainable biofuels agricultural emissions reduction based on the agreement – the historic agreement with agriculture historical carbon capture and storage effort; higher emission price for the pet industry more of the Green Platform cooperation more research and innovation extension of the Climatic Rate for municipalities greener public transport, ferries, service vessels and speedboats a greener construction sector This plan concerns all three pillars of government climate policy: the non-quota sector, the quota sector and forest and other land use. Let me briefly say that there are some people who have tried to create some sort of myth that the forest is not now part of climate policy. It's completely wrong. But then we agree with the forest industry when they have said in dialogue with us that they should not be used as an excuse for us to cut less in other sectors. With this plan, Norway achieves the 2030 climate targets. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1188	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1193	I look forward to an exciting debate on many aspects. I share the honourable Member's satisfaction that there is at least agreement on overall objectives and that it will cost to release them. It will be adopted today, and that is good. However, I would like to challenge Mr Heggelund as the rapporteur-in-chief if he does not regret, as I do, that it was not possible to achieve a wider settlement also on the concrete instruments in addition to the levy. We know two things about fees. One is that charges work – they change behaviour. The second is that they can be skewed and dissimilar in different parts of the country and in different industries. Wouldn't it have been even better if we had now managed to get together that the compensatory measures, which would enable people to live greener lives and make greener choices, were something we could adopt jointly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1200	I count over a hundred specific proposals from the government in the climate plan. I do not record that there is a majority against any of the proposals, i.e. the so-called 'wil' points, contained in the climate communication. With an alternate majority, there is a great deal of consensus. Then you can ask, wouldn't it have been better if everyone agreed on absolutely everything? Well, until that was among other things. the disagreement on the red-green side too large. Nor have we wanted to negotiate the CO 2 tax with the Progress Party. But the majority of Stortinget have made a commitment to what is the cornerstone of this climate plan, which will achieve the 2030 emission target. So that's the most important thing. Then, for the sake of information, I can say: earlier, when there have been climate agreements, it has been necessary for citizens to take climate policy in a more offensive direction in relation to the climate messages that have come from the red-green ones. While we've now seen attempts, from different parts, to bring down the ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1212	The right is hotly talking about introducing taxes into this climate plan, and does not seem to have any concerns about introducing a carbon 2 tax to be doubled, which is already twice as high as the quota price. This is very likely to be a curious charge, affecting Norwegian enterprises in competition with foreign business. Equal conditions of competition have always been important to the Right, so I would like the representative Heggelund to tell me what the Right believes is the great difference between a special Norse climate tax that affects Norwegian business and a strange wealth tax that affects the competitive conditions of Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1220	I always want to spend a lot of time talking about the wealth tax. Here I am disappointed that the Progress Party is not as offensive as the Right History has been, because we know that it is harmful to Norwegian jobs. But for that issue, the climate plan. I am surprised that the Progress Party does not see that the government is talking equally much about tax relief in this plan, because the overall level of taxes and taxes is not going to go up, but we are going to have a tax shift, where we are going to price emissions higher and other taxes and taxes are going down. I have to say in terms of the competitive situation with other countries: if the representative of Terje Halleland believes that the price of emissions in Europe will not go up with the offensive EU climate target, he is wrong. The EU will use a three-digit billion in euro to achieve the 2030 targets. Does he really think that only ordinary taxpayers in Europe are going to take that bill? No, no, no. We do this because we see how evolution will also be in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1227	It will not be a climate plan just because you use big words and loud voices to say the word «climate plan». This is not an option with a broad majority behind it. This is really a chaos setting. These are just four proposals, for which the government parties choose to stand together to form a majority. Everyone did not want a broad settlement, and a settlement with the Support Party The Advance Party did not make it any of that either. It is not the case that a minority government joins the Storting because a big message is attached to the protocol. Adding something to the protocol just means not taking operational decisions. So here's a lot of big words and little action. The government has not managed to reach the broad consensus on climate policy, as it wanted to be. Isn't that really a disappointment to the government, even if you choose to use loud and loud words about something else?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1232	The biggest disappointment is that the Center Party chooses to use its line to ask a question that has already been asked with a slightly different wording. Now we have a debate where we can challenge each other. It's absolutely right that there's not a full consensus about everything. For example, the Centre Party has clear decisions against the majority on the Stortinget for the CO 2 tax. I remember in the schoolyard that we sometimes said, "Do you deny the facts?" That's what the representative Marit Arnstad here is doing, because the fact is, with an alternating majority, Stortinget is today committing itself to a climate policy that will achieve the 2030 climate change target. The representative Arnstad can shake her head as much as she likes, but even if the setting may sometimes appear a bit messy – among other things. because some parties, I'm not going to mention party names, choose to submit all of their comments on a proposal one day before the last deadline – so it's so that there is a majority for a climate policy that makes us achieve the climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1242	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1248	It would take eight years for this government to submit a climate report. Where the red-greens produced a climate report every period, and even though a majority had negotiated with the opposition to create predictability of what is the greatest challenge of our time, this government has chosen the opposite. They have minorities and won't negotiate with the opposition. It is a power-provoking government, but more serious than that – they are not helping to create predictability and ensure the best climate policy for Norway. That is why the Labour Party has today proposed 298 proposals for a better climate policy for Norway. Left, Right, and Christian People's Party vote them down, all as one. We believe that the government's climate policy is far from good enough. We want a fair climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. In none of the three areas does the government deliver. First of all, we want to cut emissions. We want to do the emission cuts nationally. We want to set a national target for where we're going to be in 2030. We go out on the street here, or anywhere around Norway, and ask what is Norway's climate goal, I think we'll get a lot of different answers. And strangely, that's not because the climate debate is misguided by quotas, percentages, reference tracks and other foreign words. That's why we say it should be easy to understand climate policy. When you cut half, it's going to mean cutting half of our emissions. The government won't agree to that. Nor on what we call the non-quota sector, has the government been involved in rejecting quota purchases. The working party will invest in Norway rather than buy quotas in Europe. We want a emissions budget for Norway, so we ensure that we achieve our 2030 climate targets. Secondly, we want a climate policy that creates tens of thousands of new jobs. Then we need a much more active industrial policy for Norway. Norway has become the country it is, because it was politicians before us who dared to make political choices. They've put the power into operation and built up industry. It was a political choice 100 years ago. Fifty years ago, those sitting in this room then chose to create the industrial venture in the oil and gas sector. It was a political choice. Now today's politicians must be equally forward-looking, dry to bet, and we see that it happens in the countries around us. It happens in Europe, and it happens at full speed in the United States. Here at home in Norway we hesitate. The Labour Party believes that Norway should have the ambition to go ahead, but with today’s government it is not the topic. The question is that Norway should not fall behind. That's why the Workers' Party says we want to bet. We want a great deal of sea wind, hydrogen, climate technology and circular economy. We want an active state to cooperate with business. We want the polluter to pay, but we want a partnership with the business community – where the business community commits itself to making emission reductions, and we commit ourselves to setting up. It has, among other things, Denmark's Prime Minister, Mette Frederiksen, has been very successful, and it's a shame that the bulk of the population today say no to do the same. The last main leg of the Workers' Party's climate policy is that it should be fair, for justice goes like a red thread through all of the Labour Party's policies. This, of course, also applies in climate policy. When the government targets a policy that increases the differences between people, it is serious for many reasons. But it's also serious because it makes us less willing to change. We have to pursue a policy that reduces the differences between people. In the government's climate announcement, the social dimension is completely gone. If we're going to be able to convert, we have to include those who do the job in businesses, and climate policy has to be fair. That's why we say it's unfair that those who buy the most expensive electric cars do not pay a penny in VAT, but if you buy a bicycle or a used car, you pay for it. We say it's very good that we have electrified our ferries, because it means that we get emissions down and create jobs, but it's unfair that commuters get increased ferry prices. That's why we're saying we want to halve the holiday prices. We're increasing the CO 2 tax, because we think it's unfair that those who don't have alternatives near where they live have to pay exactly the same thing as those who have a lot of alternatives. That is why we want to compensate in the districts where there is no collective offer. I fully agree with what has been said in advance of today's debate, that it is a pity that we are unable to gather on a course for the future. The government has said that it does not want to negotiate with anyone other than the Progress Party. That's what's been Left and Right preferred partners. But what those conversations have led to is now very unclear, because they hardly agree on a single comment in the setting. There's a lost opportunity for this case, but what's good is that there's light at the end of the tunnel, because we see that in the opposition we've gathered. In five months, it's a choice. Then we're going to have a climate policy that cuts emissions and creates jobs. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party is behind. I can also say that in the event of an incubation, it says that we are on proposal No. 48, and we're not going to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1268	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust then mentioned the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1275	It's a choice for the harvest. If there were to be another majority and the Workers' Party is in government negotiations with the Center Party, would I like a concrete answer to the following questions: Will the Workers' Party be open to negotiate the CO 2 tax with the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1283	What is the position of the Workers' Party, Stefan Heggelund knows very well. We are behind the CO 2 tax, and we have proposed to increase it earlier. Unfortunately, we did not get that through in the previous budget – when, among other things, we voted. Right down that. The Labour Party is fully behind it, it is the Labour Party's policy, and that is what we are going to vote on. The working party can guarantee that we will not sit in a government that downgrades the Norwegian climate goals. We're behind what we're doing in the setting, and that's what we're going to choose.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1293	The working party has been among those who have shown most clearly that the EU is moving towards an interconnection between the European ETS and the national emission targets in the so-called non-quota sector. A consultation note from the European Commission shows that a phase-out of this policy instrument is being considered. Among other things, we now see that the EU is working to include emissions from road transport and building in quota trade. Should this become a reality now, does not the Workers' Party believe that Norway should be prepared so that costs between different sectors were harmonised and as much as possible in order to achieve a good transition? And is not the Labour Party concerned when the distance between costs is as high as they have become in Norway, between the quota sector and the CO 2 tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1301	I am not quite sure if I understood the whole question and the reasoning of the representative of the Progress Party. But what is quite obvious is that the Workers' Party believes that we should do the emission cuts nationally. I totally disagree with the suggestion made by the Progress Party against the government that they also open up this flexibility. We believe that we should invest in Norway rather than buy quotas in Europe. The Labour Party has said we should cut 55 pst. We're going to do that nationally, although of course we're still going to be part of the ETS, and for the individual companies, we can buy in the same old way. But if you ask what is going to be Norway's emission target, where we're going to be in 2030, we're going to have cut 55 pst. of our emissions. It's going to cost, but what's going to cost even more is not achieving our climate goals. That's what will be the largest cost of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1308	The centre party operates with a diesel population that is going to be retrograde in a few years' time, said the Workers' Party's climate policy figure, Espen Barth Eide, in Dagsrevyen, February 5, with the reference that the Center Party would protect the drivers from increased pump price. On 16 March, Barth Eide himself had already become retro and said to the NRK that the Workers' Party would protect the pump prices by increasing only half of the government's desire. Some clear answers on how to compensate for increased CO 2 tax – it does not take the position of the Workers' Party. So my question to the Workers' Party is: does the party really think it's important to protect the drivers who don't have alternatives to traveling around the country, with a triple of the CO 2 tax? And how has the Workers' Party intended to compensate it without increasing the social and geographical differences? For me, it seems that the Workers' Party takes with one hand and gives with the other, but the result is the same: increased pump prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1319	The Workers' Party and Espen Barth Eide have never said that driving diesel is retro or that it is populism. What was referred to was that the Senterpartiet with Jan Bøhler and Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum in the head drove into the Tøen Torg and thought that having low-emission zones was in a way the worst one could see. What's strange about that is that it was adopted in Stortinget on a proposal from Jan Bøhler, and it was voted for in the city council with the support of the Senterpartiet just before Christmas. That's what Espen Barth Eide thought was a kind of populism that would look a little weird in a few years. What we in the Workers' Party and the Centre agree on is that you have a car or a diesel car, you should keep that car. It is not environmentally friendly to change cars. You should keep that car as long as it is executable, and the next time you buy it, you should buy it as environmentally friendly as possible. Then it's unfair to pay the same increase in cities and districts, because in cities there are alternatives, and in districts it doesn't. Then you have to find models that don't punish yourself to live in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1326	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1331	This is perhaps the case that can have the greatest impact on future policies and budgets over the next 10-20 years. It is not possible to put under the chair that the party of progress is skeptical of much of what came from the government, and no less skeptical of what comes from parts of the opposition. It is important that there are no longer symbols that are adopted, but that one adds to a policy that can give us results. The objective is, of course, to cut greenhouse gas emissions, but nobody wins if emissions go down, but leaves a society in ruins. There's a short way between hard and yellow vests. The Progress Party has been committed to showing the opportunities and space of action that are still there, while at the same time meeting our international commitments. Climate challenges are global and therefore also need to be addressed globally. That is why the Progress Party is also in favour of an agreement on climate cooperation with the EU, but then we assume that we should have the same rules as the EU has. The point is that our business life should be able to work under the same conditions as our competitors. In other contexts, we would never have accepted an agreement in which we give weaker conditions for our own business than those we know our competitors have to deal with. The CO 2 tax and a tripling of it is one of the big grips that the government is adding up to. Already today, we see the weaknesses of such a charge and get concrete examples of what Norwegian business can experience with a differentiated regulatory framework between their own business and our closest trading partners. The most obvious distinction is for those companies that are currently outside the EU quota market, where businesses are subject to almost twice the level of taxation imposed on them by competitors. It may be worth noting that this is a challenge facing business today, and that is before the huge increase in CO 2 tax has taken place. Some of the same things we can experience in sectors where alternative technologies are not available, where the charge becomes only a new cost that affects the bottom line and puts entire industries at risk of being replaced by foreign actors. This gives us clear signals, including: in the case of the heavy-duty motor industry and fisheries. I have to say that I miss the debate on what measures will be put in place by the supporters of an increased levy in order to protect these businesses. I take as a starting point that no one wants companies to be shut down or moved out of the country because of a new tax regime. The Progress Party is very concerned about the lack of commitment around Norwegian business, value creation and workplaces. That is why the Progress Party has created its own climate plan, a plan that shows a cut of about 27 million tonnes, a plan that shows that it is going on – without harming Norwegian business, without having to hurt so badly, without being based on prohibition and coercion, which appears to be just an attempt to make everyday life difficult for most people. The Progress Party believes that we should have a system of protection of Norwegian interests, that CO 2 cut nationally should not result in value creation and jobs being moved out of the country, that measures should be based on cost-benefit and socio-economic profitability, that we use all available flexibility mechanisms when this pays off, and that joint implementation with the EU requires Norway to use the same regulatory framework as the EU does. Then we can implement such a plan if you live in District Norway, or if you live in the middle of the city. Then we avoid diesel prices of 20 kroner. Because even though the sales of electric cars are increasing, the large majority still drive around in petrol or diesel cars. They're going to do that for years, and it's actually an advantage for the climate. The car has an enormous impact on the social structure in Norway. 80 pst. of all passenger journeys by car. Very many people today are totally dependent on the car. It provides freedom of movement and increased opportunities across both income levels and geography. It takes the Progress Party into account in our climate policy. I am addressing the proposals of which the Progress Party is part, and those on which we stand alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1361	Then the representative Terje Halleland addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1369	Renewable energy availability is one of the main measures to increase the competitive advantage of Norwegian industry, increase employment and value added, reduce emissions and thus achieve climate change objectives. Today, several regions have to say no to new industries because of a lack of transmission capacity in the network. It takes almost ten years to plan and develop new lines. Our power system must be rigged for more unregulated power, increased flexibility and new energy mix, while at the same time keeping prices down for both consumers and industry and business. The Progress Party had the Minister of Energy in the first seven years of the Solberg government. Has not the Progress Party seen developments, or is it enough to leave it to the market to fix it? Why have the Ministers for Energy of the Progress Party not been more ahead, provided faster grid deployment throughout the country, so that when new industries are set up, they can be competitive and existing ones will turn into more renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1376	I think I'm going to be so humble and say that for the online situation in Norway today, with the developments that have been in recent years, the demand for power has become much bigger than you could expect. That you would like to plan better and have a planning regime that would have been more offensive, at least in time, I think we can all stand behind. I think we're going to get what we see in society now, we have to take good care of the online situation, but we also have to take good care of the power situation we're in, because now there's a lot of demand for power. Now we have to start looking at who is going to gain access to that power. Is it the first man to the mill, or are we going to look at what kind of values are created by the force being used?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1383	Fish are climate friendly, and fish are healthy food. In the article, the representative spoke about the CO 2 tax and the impact on fisheries. The party of progress is talking very well about these matters. No one can take them from there. They're world champions in speaking well. But when there's action in this room, and there's a fee, yes, they're going to pay. Fishing in Norway has experienced a multiple of the CO 2 charges compared to when the Senterpartiet, SV and Arbeidarpartiet put in government. It's got the Advance Party's voice year after year. They also have the voice to phase out the current compensation scheme in four years. My question is: when one has been in the charging gap that has been for the fishing industry so far, how can one trust that the Progress Party has now reached the top?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1396	I feel reasonably confident that if there are any people who are going to have challenges with what they have said and done historically, I think the Central Party will be allowed to put itself in a completely different position than the Progress Party is doing. The Progress Party has, of course, been involved in decisions that we see have been unfortunate, but the Progress Party has also been among those who have stood in the first place to try to reverse measures that have been seen in retrospect not to give the desired effect, nor to give the desired consequences. But with the Progress Party, I believe that tax policy and business policy must be very safe. You have to look in many parties before you find a better policy than the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1403	Yesterday, the Progress Party promoted a proposal to ensure the continued sale of petrol and diesel cars. I am tempted to ask: when will the proposal to facilitate the continued use of steam locomotives, fax, that all batches should have ‘chairman’ in the management title, and the continued use of mercury in the dental fillings? I'm not gonna ask you that. What I'm going to ask is, how does the Progress Party believe that facilitating the continued sale of petrol and diesel cars helps cut greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1410	Comrade, I was going to say. I don't have the right to say that, but outside this hall we tend to say ‘companee Haltbrecken’. There is no ban on fax in Norway. You can actually use it whenever you want, and if the halt break is very nice, I'd like to find a fax so I can accept fax from him as well. The big difference between the Socialist Left Party and the Advance Party is that you don't always have to ban and force the technology to move on. The same is true of us – and we also see that – in terms of car policy. If you're making arrangements for the positive ones we now have for electric cars, yes, the electric cars are growing. And that also means, of course, that the share of petrol and diesel cars is getting smaller and smaller. But I think it's very important to take into account that it's not a climate change measure today to build new electric cars so that we don't use the petrol cars 'up' to say it like that. The large emissions are related to the production of the cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1422	Although today we are dealing with a huge document called a climate plan, it is difficult to see a single positive response that will help us get people and business with us on the transition we are about to go through to solve the climate challenges. The only thing the government is contributing to this plan is whips — whips to punish people who don't have the opportunity to choose climate-friendly solutions. The only solution the government comes with is a triple of the CO 2 tax. We all agree that greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced. But Norway is a long country to the north. Some places are electric cars or trams the best way to get there, in other parts of the country, people are totally dependent on their Unøe plane or fossil car to make their everyday lives go up. It looks like too many politicians have forgotten what our entire long-range country looks like. Where was it of the positive measures that would help people to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway? We are currently dealing with one of the biggest issues in this period on Stortinget. It is a matter of concern to all people's lives and in practice to all businesses in this country. You can question whether the preparation of this message is good enough, because there was an overall message from the business community from the hearing around the message that there was a lack of dialogue with the government to find solutions. The business community has made a lot of suggestions, but the government doesn't seem to care, because the only measure they're introducing is a tripling of the CO 2 tax. If the benefits and burdens are not distributed in a fairer way, we are at risk of strong resistance to a completely necessary climate change. We are already seeing that in the debate. People feel that they are being punished for, for example, lives in North Norway, where there is not enough charging infrastructure to drive an electric car. They must be punished with a sharp increase in the pump price. The ferries are required to introduce environmentally friendly ferries without being compensated for the costs incurred. That makes the bill, among other things. they are sent to families with children who are totally dependent on the ferry to get to work. The government's proposal for more than a triple of the CO 2 tax could create a riot that makes the ferry uprising appear to be a mild breeze. Not to talk about those who are totally dependent on planes and the short-haul network to get to work and to get necessary treatment in hospitals. People are hit, and business is hit hard. Because business is different, just like our country. The whole fishing industry warns against the tripling of the CO 2 tax and says that in the worst case it will help many not to survive – a fishing industry that is important for our entire coast. Norwegian and pure food is punished by a charge which, in its ultimate consequence, can lead to the failure of fisheries to survive. And that's not the first fee this industry is charged by this government along with the Progress Party. We in the Center Party are concerned that we are fulfilling the Paris Agreement. This is precisely why we are putting in very many positive measures to contribute to conversion, but without the bill being sent directly into prison on people and businesses. We would like, among other things: electrify or introduce hydrogen trains on all routes currently running on diesel. We will set up our own CO 2 fund for food and heavy transport. We want to introduce a Bionova – a fund that will help support agriculture in climate change. We aim to ensure that ferries and fast boats are free of emissions, but that the additional costs of doing so are covered by the State. I could list a lot of measures proposed by the Central Party in this setting that will contribute positively to conversion, but the most important thing is to stress that what is common to all our proposals is that we not only shift the burden on those who have the least to travel with, or those who live in the districts. There's the big difference between the center part and a bunch of other parts in this room. It is disappointing that today we are dealing with such a big message with so few measures that contribute to an ambitious climate policy. This is not a message that contributes to the enthusiasm we need in people to cheer up the climate change we're going to undergo. With that, I take up the suggestions that the Center Party is behind alone and with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1456	The representative Sandra Borch then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1463	In November, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum was in the Political Quarter and was unable to fully respond to whether he was behind the climate goals of Norway or not. After a bit of an unfortunate day, the head of the Center Party came out and said that he had now concluded, and that the Center Party was behind the climate targets. That was good and necessary. The Paris Agreement is a plank. I am very pleased that the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have worked together on so many issues in the climate announcement setting, over 150 proposals where our three parties and the Greens' Environment Party stand together. What's going to be the job is how we're going to achieve the climate goals. That's why the Workers' Party says that we need a climate accounting, so we can plan for how to achieve goals. The centre party is the only red-green party that has not produced and produced a climate accounting. Then Battle Force Vedum said that counting on this becomes extremely theoretical. It is clear that all budgeting is theoretical. That's why we make budgets, that's why we have financial budgets, too, so that we can plan. What is the reason why the Centre Party has such resistance to creating climate budgets that in the future will be as limited a resource as our economic resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1470	The centre party has supported the climate objectives and is behind all the climate objectives that Norway has legally committed itself to. The centre party is committed to achieving the climate objectives, but we have chosen to use resources to develop and promote important positive actions in this message, rather than using resources to create accounts. Then I would like to say that the government does not provide any concrete accounts either, you have just cut and pasted figures from the Climate Action Program, and in addition, the government parties claim that they, among other things, claim that they do. shall provide compensatory measures for miscellaneous increases in the CO 2 tax. They don't have any accounts for that. For the Central Party, the most important thing now is to start the conversion and cut and not use our resources in theoretical accounts.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1483	Most people agree that the Center Party has become the Storting's most climate-friendly party. Why does the representative think this has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1488	I do not agree with the position of the representative at all. The centre party is occupied by people throughout the country. We are committed to pursuing a fair climate policy, including in the context of this climate communication. And unlike today's government, we actually fill out this message with positive measures, measures that contribute to conversion, and that do not send the bill directly into captivity on people and business, as this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1493	I heard the representative Borch mention fossil cars. She doesn't mention that at that thought it's today, this year, 25 pst. Biofuels. With the CO 2 tax, it becomes even cheaper and more competitive, and it is possible to get to both 40 and 50 pst. in a few years. I do not see that the Senterpartiet has any plans to increase production in Norway. That's one of the questions, where are the ambitions for that? Then those cars are no longer fossils, and the emissions go down. When the central party was in government, the government then sent environmental protection minister Erik Solheim to Eastfold to open a biofuel business. 14 days later, the State budget was presented and an user charge was introduced. So that factory went bankrupt in 14 days, and there was no production. Is that the road to climate change in the Central Party's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1503	If it's a batch that, in the context of this climate communication, has really submitted proposals and comments on biofuels and biofuels, then it's the Center Party. And if there's a government that has introduced a tax on bio, user tax, it's this government. This has led, for example, to: The buses in Troms County now have to move from biofuels to diesel and petrol, because it is cheaper. That is exactly the challenge of this whole climate plan; you don't contribute to a fair transition, you don't help people to choose climate-friendly measures without going beyond their economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1508	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1513	When crises threaten, the parties in Stortinget have shown the will to stand together – stand together in the fight against major challenges. On January 17, 2008 was a historic day for the climate struggle. Then almost all the parties at Stortinget gathered about the country's first climate settlement. The parties saw the benefit of being united in the fight against the climate crisis. They realized that the climate crisis was great and the fight against it was so crucial for our common future that they had to stand together to give hope for the future, stand together to give business security in the effort for zero-emission solutions, and not least stand together to ensure the emission cuts we have to implement. In 2008, the parties included: agree on a strong commitment to the conservation of rainforests. Since then, Norway has played a crucial role internationally in the fight to save the world’s last rainforests. Four years later, June 11, 2012, the climate agreement was 2.0 the light of day. Here the parties agreed to ban oil firing from households as of 1 January 2020. Finally, we can mention May 3rd, 2018. Then a unanimous increase in demand for zero greenhouse gas emissions from cruise boats and other tourist boats in Norwegian World Heritage fjords. On April 8, 2021, could have been another historic day in the history of the climate struggle. The day won't be. It will go into history as the day when the Storting threw away the opportunity to stand together in the fight against the climate crisis and again to put in place important emission cuts for the future. What has changed since January 2008 and the first climate deal? At least it's not science. The warnings from climate scientists have only become clearer and clearer. Time and again they warn that the cuts planned are too small and too late. At best, the government's climate policy cuts Norway's emissions by about 30 pst. compared with 1990 levels. It is well beyond the national target the government has delivered to the UN: a cut of 50-55 pst. I can only say that there is no lack of input from environmental movement, trade movement or business that is why the Stortinget was unable to collect on major emissions. Nor is there a lack of suggestions in the vote that could be blamed for the lack of consensus. If it were willful, we could today have a much more offensive commitment to energy efficiency improvement – perhaps the most important measure to cut greenhouse gas emissions. We could have made a strong commitment to solar energy in Norway as well. The sun shines on all the roofs. We could have agreed on a plan to get a strong increase in solar production in Norway, which would also have meant jobs here at home, because there is a lot of our industry that today produces products for the solar industry. Had it been willful, we could also get a far more offensive investment in carbon capture and storage, in far more installations than the government wanted to add. We could also have got to charging stations for electric cars throughout the country and made sure that people in Building Norway also had easy access to a fast charger for their electric car. And we could have put Norway in the driver's seat to bet on zero-emission aircraft for the future. Aviation is currently a climate change host, but there are ways to cut emissions dramatically. This we could have done if it had been willful, and this is just to mention something. We could have developed an ambitious climate policy for the next decades that actually met our objectives in the Paris Agreement. We could have cut emissions, created jobs and distributed benefits and burdens fairly through a green people's bonus, as SV suggests. But unfortunately, the will of the government parties was not there. This must mean that they are deeply satisfied with a climate policy that does not meet the objectives they have committed us to in the Paris Agreement. It is not primarily disappointing, it is primarily irresponsible. I'll bring it up to you the suggestions SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1528	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1535	The fishing industry is heavily affected by the CO 2 tax, and along the whole coast there is a massive resistance to this triple of the tax that is going to hit hard for the whole industry. Many rightly fear their jobs. SV traditionally employs fishermen, and in particular the smallest fleet. In this case, SV is involved in introducing a fee that will have a significant impact on an entire industry already charging a number of charges. All fishing organisations are against this, but SV, on the other hand, seems to be legitimizing the fee without having any guarantee of how this should be compensated. Why is the coastal fisherman from Finnmark not so important for SV in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1545	Coastal fishing is one of the most environmentally friendly things we can do in fishing and fishing. This is where the CO2 emissions per kilogram of fish caught are lowest. Thus, a CO2 tax on fishing will primarily hit the large trawls, while coastal fishing will pay off if we combine this with SV proposals for a conversion to low- and zero-emission boats in coastal fisheries. Norway has today produced the first electric jacks used to fish fish without greenhouse gas emissions. It has secured coastal fishing, it has cut emissions, and it has created jobs in Norwegian shipyards, and I do not understand why the Senterpartiet cannot participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1552	With respect for the representative Haltbrecken, I have to help with the memory of 2008 and 2012 and the climate comparisons. SV sat in government and came to Stortinget, and then it happened that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party participated in negotiating the ambitions and goals up and emissions down. Now, the State Council of Rotevatn became the first Environment Minister in Norway to reach a Norwegian climate target in 2020. The emissions are going down, we've negotiated, and we're delivering the results. SV's big bet, the moon landing at Mongstad, the crash country in ESU. The biofuel got out of the tank, and it's now full of climate – there's no deal on the red-green side. I would like to ask you something simple. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, the Red-Greens, have a majority in the Energy and Environment Committee. Why didn't the three parties manage something as simple as choosing a case rapporteur for the climate communication, when one has such ambitions for common emissions cuts? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1559	I think that maybe was the strangest question I've got in this room, and it's probably interesting for this room to know. But I really suggest that the representative ask that question to others. At least we made ourselves available to have a case rapporteur in this case, and then I can assure the representative from the Left that we would have used that opportunity to secure a climate settlement. I am amazed that the Left did not use the opportunity they had, to press the Right to join in on a much more ambitious climate policy than the weak climate communication that has been presented. There is now agreement on the red-green side of 141 proposals that would have meant a lot to climate policy in the future. The left could have ensured that many of these proposals had been adopted today – if there was a willingness to act on the climate at Left. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1567	The cord shift is over. The President must ask the representatives to deal with the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1574	The left will create a green future with freedom and opportunities for all. That's why we cut emissions, and we now have the lowest emissions in Norway in 27 years. Finally, we also have a realistic and measurable plan that shows how to achieve the climate target and cut emissions without cutting development – towards 2030, but also further towards net zero by 2050. I am pleased that the Storting is aware of the objectives and obligations we have under the Paris Agreement. Europe must do its part of the job. This plan goes much further than previous climate announcements in linking climate policy, business policy and innovation policy. It is entirely in line with the knowledge we have about how to solve the climate crisis, create jobs and make a large-scale green transition. The main feature of the plan is to increase the CO 2 tax. Pollutants must pay, that is the most important principle. Anders Bjartnes, editor of Energy and Climate, says that there is climate policy after the textbook when the government will boost the cost of emissions strongly towards 2030. CO 2 pricing works. Marius Holm in Zero has said that there is a shift in Norwegian climate policy when one raises the CO 2 tax. But increased CO 2 tax alone, or green taxing, as we in the left call it, is not a goal in itself. It is important to make green and zero-emission solutions more competitive. Electric car policy is an example of how we can turn on taxes and charges in combination with other benefits in order to speed up desired developments. For the Left, there is a green thread from when Environment Minister Guro Fjellanger signed the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, until the Left's Minister of Transport Torild Skogsholm introduced the main features of today's electricity policy, of the climate agreements in Stortinget in 2008 and 2012, of the Nydalen agreement with the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party in 2013, and until we joined the government with the Jeløya agreement and the Granavolden platform. On this trip, we have been all the way to lifting the ceiling for targets and ambitions to cut emissions. Examples of this in practical policy are that we have moved Enova from the Ministry of Oil to the Ministry of Climate Change. We've increased the appropriations for Enova by 3.3 billion. kr in year. In 2015, it was 4 pst. biofuel on the tank, this year it is 25 pst. The climate rate is established for municipalities and county municipalities. Nysnø, the fund that someone from the opposition wants to establish is established. It is then some snowflake you want to establish in addition. Today's blue-green government with climate and environment minister Sveinung Rotevatn will be the first to reach a Norwegian climate target. By 2020, we will finally drop below 50 million. tonnes of CO 2 emissions in Norway. All of this has been possible in civil cooperation with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and sometimes the Advance Party, and in cooperation with the Red-Green parties in the 2008 and 2012 climate agreements. For it was the Right, Left and Christian People's Party that came in and lifted the roof of those negotiations both times. This time the opposition has not lifted the roof. Instead of a big deal, which has been called by many, it has become more and more of a climate speck on the red-green side. While there is climate unity among the government parties, this designates itself in the opposition. They do not agree on the electric car policy, on the CO 2 tax, on zero-emission zones in cities and whether or not to include forests in the climate target. We need to solve a climate crisis, and then we need to have a tough course and cut emissions. We do that in transport, in waste and in agriculture. We have signed an agreement with agriculture to cut up to 5 million. tonnes. The CO 2 tax alone provides large emissions reductions, and more biofuels on the tank will also further reduce emissions. Carbon capture and storage have also been achieved in this government – thank you very much to the Progress Party, which, with its energy ministers for seven years, has helped to facilitate the more than 17 billion we will use to develop carbon capture and storage in the coming years in Norway. There is a hydrogen party on the stock exchange, there are battery factories planned and to be built a lot in Norway. We have built the first biocarbon plant in Norway, and there are plans for several biogas plants. So there's a lot going on, and we're also a region that's set out to be the most sustainable and competitive in the world: the Nordic. We have friends among us who want the same way, who are competitive, and who bet on slightly different sectors. We're good at wind, we're good at battery, we're good at cinema – and together we're already one of the most sustainable regions in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1621	Several European countries have prioritised energy saving high in their climate policies and have developed good retail solutions both for households and businesses at the centre of their green migration and employment strategy. It's been five years since the Stortinget decided – when we dealt with the energy message – that the government would come up with a plan for how we could save 10 TWh through energy saving in construction. It will reduce both the intervention and the need for new forces that we can use in other areas. So it turns out that just before Easter, the NVE came up with an analysis that said that the potential was actually 13 TWh. So the question is, how does the Left explain that in the last eight years they have not been able to contribute to such a plan, so that we had managed to have completely concrete measures for both households and businesses for how we can operate with energy saving in our building mass?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1628	First of all, thank you for an important question. We need to work more on this. Then it is not right that we have not done anything – that is not what the representative asks. Enova has measures today. We have received subsidies to place solar cells on the roof, e.g., which many luckily started with, and also to re-insulate construction and replace windows for that part. Enova has that kind of grant, and they came after the Left came in majority in 2013. Then we can do more, and that's important after the debate we've had, among other things. windmills. We see that we have to better housekeepers with the energy resources we already have, and not expand more nature. These are important questions. Then comes the Ministry of Oil and Energy with a report on the energy resources during the spring. Energy efficiency improvement will also be part of that plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1639	We are now dealing with what is called a «climate plan». I probably wouldn't call it a plan at all. There's probably more to a message with a few ambitions. For the only measure taken by the government and the Left, an increase — a triple — of the CO 2 tax, which will send the bill to families with children and businesses. There is not a single positive measure in this communication that contributes to migration without the bill being sent directly into prison on people throughout the country. So I want to challenge the Left, who is talking so nicely about this message, to mention five positive actions that contribute to conversion without the bill being sent to people and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1647	Now we are saying that the increase in the CO 2 tax should be compensated for kroner. What's going to happen is a shift to the fossil-free and the emission-free. And that conversion costs, yeah. But someone has to go in the breeze. Then we experience a shift on behalf of the business community. The vast majority of industries and sectors in Norway come and say that they will have the most competitive conditions in Norway, the strictest conditions, because it allows us to compete in the world and export our technology and get a few dollars in cash. We depend on selling the goods to someone. The centre party is very concerned about the fish, and the effort to get the fish out to China and other parts of the world must become more green. There are alternatives. Then maybe the fishing fleet isn't the one that's the easiest to convert in 2021, but maybe in 2025-2026 those vessels start coming that are at least hybrid vessels. And that's what happens -- that transformation. That's exactly what happened to the electric car policy. [[The President clubs]] 15 years ago, when we established that policy, there were almost no electric cars to buy. Today they constitute the majority of new car sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1657	The President shall repeat that the representatives must deal with the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1662	It's tempting after the previous line exchange to ask, why weren't you the case rapporteur? But I'm not going to ask you that. The government’s climate notification is very non-obligatory. There's a lot of government will figure out and aim to do. But when the opposition turns vague targets into concrete commitments about action, yes, the Left is voting against today. The left is in favour of calling for emission-free public transport. Left votes against requirements that ensure that the public buys zero-emission cars. And the Left is also voting against the requirement to ensure that municipalities can allow the establishment of zero-emission zones. The left vote even against a number of proposals set out in the Granavolden Declaration, but not yet met. Why is the Left voting against a more ambitious climate policy, Kjenseth?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1669	We're starting with public transport: after we got into the majority we're sitting in now, Oslo has gone from getting zero dollars in support of the collective offer to getting a significant number of hundreds of millions – if not billions, if I don't remember wrong; it's not that far away from billions. The left in the urban council and in the position in Oslo has been involved in building rolling pavements, cutting emissions and facilitating lower emissions, while the SV in the urban council in Oslo today is involved in almost no cutting emissions. Why SV does not put any money on the table to put in place a carbon capture and storage facility for waste on Klemetsrud, which the rest of Norway and the big cities would benefit from, is a bit difficult to understand. So we're voting against: we're voting for a plan to cut emissions year by year until 2030. I regret that it is not a big deal about it and that there is such a big gap in the opposition that it will not be on such a concrete level.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1682	Today we are doing an important thing. The case currently under treatment is one of several issues for which the Stortinget has a job this year, and during this ageing period it has a job to do, which is that we are forced to do more to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and it is at least necessary for Norway to take on the ladder and lead. If we manage to reduce climate change and go from 2 to down to 1.5 degrees, it has huge consequences for Norway, our country, and it has huge consequences for the people who live in more deferred parts of the world. Therefore, climate policy means a lot, and it is important that a capable of achieving good cooperation on it both in this room and internationally. If there's one thing I've really been proud of in the last year, it's that Norway has taken on the clay island internationally and shown its way. In recent years, an international climate cooperation has been raging, because if several of the major countries have not seen a reverse, they have at least hit the brakes, while Norway is cooperating with our neighbouring countries in Europe, and not least Norway, has filled the vacuum to ensure that someone is led – not least when the government delivered a reinforced target and said that Norway should cut between 50 and 55 pst. That's good. It's shown a leadership. But this must also be turned into a practical policy, and we are forced to have a policy where we deliver on the climate targets that we have seen. Therefore, I am also very pleased that today there will be a connection with the grips in the climate plan that the government has presented. It's a climate plan that shows how we can reach the commitments we have taken on us, by 2030, which deals with a wide range of measures – unlike what some of the representatives seem to give an impression of – from continuing the green tax shift that one has carried out, to ensuring that our support schemes both help us to develop the new solutions and roll them out from Norwegian suppliers, so that Norway is also making the most of the solutions that allow us to escape globally. Not only that – one also has a concrete plan for how to raise public procurement requirements that build on the success we've had, whether it's with the shift we've been given in green shipping, where we have electrified ferry journeys after ferry journeys, or it's that one now also has to do with the public transport and the cars that the municipalities buy. But perhaps most important of all: one has also been given a policy where one is working in concrete terms with our neighbouring countries in the EU for how one can achieve these objectives jointly. The fact is that this policy is working and that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are falling. The emissions we had last year are at the lowest level of 27 years. It shows that we have a government that has taken leadership, that has raised ambitions, but that also delivers practical policies. This plan is a long step in the right direction, and it is a good idea that the Storting should at least give a connection – if the connection is alternate, it is at least a connection to the main lines of this plan, and that is good. There are not all the parts that the Size has connected to. One example, where a large majority now seems to be going into action, is that a partial cavehold on the principle that impoverishments should pay, and that we should have a green tax shift, when the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party – I wonder if there are also several parties – support their demand for the emission of CO 2 tax, even though an increase in the cost of CO 2 can trigger and store at the largest waste facilities in our major cities. There is a practical policy that has consequences, but where a large majority of people are misguided by this climate plan. I mean, it's not about where our greenhouse gas emissions come from. We need to pursue a policy that allows us to cut the greenhouse gas emissions we need to meet the obligations we have to meet. When Enova has supported 10,000 projects over the last few years, ranging from the large ocean wind projects to the small energy efficiency projects, when we have become the purest process industry, when we have gone from 3,000 to 300 000 electric cars on the Norwegian road, and we have taken on the clay road, whether it is before green shipping or getting green sites, we have a government that has gone ahead – not least because we have got the bulk of the population in debate after debate, that is, that we are going to have a concrete plan, year by year, for how we are going to achieve our climate measurement. Well, now we've got a climate plan that shows how to reach our commitments by 2030, and we've got a cooperation with the EU that also means we have a emissions budget that shows how we're going to get this to year after year. That's the way forward, and that's what this government is showing, not a staggering riser.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1708	I think it's a shame that we don't get a climate deal between all the parties. I'm not really so surprised that the Christian People's Party is not concerned about it, because the Christian People's Party has actually been completely away from the environmental debate since they chose to go into partnership with the Advance Party and the Right. Before that, the Christian People's Party had a very proud history of the environment, but it has now disappeared, and it peaked well when the leader of the Christian People's Party, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, thought that the environmental movement was a threat to the Christian human world. For me, it became an image of where the Christian People's Party has now allied itself, and what forces they now stand with. But in one area, the Christian People's Party has had credibility, and it has been on international solidarity. Tore Storehaug began his post with it, and I think it was good, but in the climate announcement, that is the perspective completely gone, it is not mentioned in a word, and this government has made great cuts in international aid. That's why the opposition, all the opposition parties, would have made a proposal here, really to provide an aid to the Christian People's Party, where we ask the government to present a matter of Norwegian climate finance in developing countries. Neither shall the Christian People's Party vote for it. What is the reason why the Christian People's Party does not cooperate with the rest of the opposition in order to put in place a case of binding climate finance in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1715	There are a lot of things I feel I need to correct in the premises that the representative is presenting here, and I'm sorry, but I don't think I can handle all of the things that were put forward right now. But first of all, the government has not cut off international aid; it is extra. And one has particularly increased assistance for climate change adaptation that hits the people who have been hit hardest by climate change, most, whether it's about those who experience so much because they live in areas that are now experiencing desertification, or it's about areas that experience sea level rise and that their habitats disappear. But let me go to the core: the representative notes that the government party does not say that one should have a case about the increase in Norwegian climate finance and climate aid. But what we're saying is that we're going to have a strategy to step this up – because this is an ambition for this government – and that it's going to be done in a way where Norway delivers commitments and provides for an escalation of how we're going to help the areas that get tougher when people are forced to leave their homes because of climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1722	The representative Tore Storehaug presents his own climate plan, he says, which should be good, and as it is very bad that the majority does not stand behind. I am absolutely sure that the representative has studied the alternative climate plan of the Progress Party, so I wonder: What is wrong with it? And what plan do you think is the one that ensures the best interests of Norway – the plan of the government or the plan of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1727	The President recalls that the speech should be addressed to the President and not to the representative on the opposite floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1732	The representative asks what is wrong with the Progress Party's alternative climate plan. First of all, he's a very alternative, in that he doesn't stick to the way Norway has committed itself to counting our greenhouse gas emissions, so he doesn't show us how to reach the commitments that we have taken on us. This government has shown measures to meet our commitments in 2030. The most important thing is that we have worked together on when we have created budgets over the last few years, namely that we should continue a green tax shift – but also that when we implement, for example, we should continue a green tax shift. The increase in the CO 2 levy will be implemented easily, which will allow us to exploit the potential of Norwegian business, provide for more Norwegian ownership, as when, for example, we do. implements good tax changes that have made it more profitable to work, more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs. It's a policy that I want to continue, and I want and hope that the representative can also support, instead of keeping on with very alternative things.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1740	We were quite concerned that the government parties had no clear formulation in the climate notification that reducing Norwegian food production should not be part of the climate solution. And the Christian People's Party, like the Centre Party, has been working towards greenhouse gas emissions in agriculture by 2030 by reducing emissions per unit of output through improved agricultural production, in line with the measures put forward by agriculture in its own climate plan. Fortunately, the Centre Party and the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have joined forces on a clear note that advises against pointing to reduced food production as a climate solution. Why does the Christian People’s Party not support this comment? And I can ask the Christian People's Party if they're happy that this is a majority remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1747	As the representative says, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party have a common commitment to cutting in the agricultural sector and the agricultural sector per unit produced, that it must be overarching the objective. The representative will ask for each item in the message shown here. I can point out to the Government Party its comments, where they also state that the most important task in the context of climate change is to reduce emissions without climate change leading to carbon leakage, and ‘therefore reduced emissions per unit produced in line with the comments of the majority in the Report. St. 11 [[2016-2017]]
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1759	This climate plan would be our generation's big, constructive response to the climate crisis facing the world. But the result, after months of pointless political games towards the next elections, is now something quite different. The Norwegian climate plan 2021 is likely to end as a very small plastic charge, a little more charging stations for electric and hydrogen cars, that we should not conclude the NO x agreement, and that the government might perhaps be able to speed up a little bit by providing a concession guide for sea wind, as they had already promised. Talk about "nothingburger", as they say out of the way, or a lot of screams and little wool, as it is called in good Norwegian. That the government failed, or tried seriously, to bring together a majority, is a betrayal of the Nordics most and a betrayal of the Norwegian economy and the ability of industry to adapt and innovate, but especially against the thousands of climate strikers, against the grandchildren – and also against the whole world, who need a climate policy that works, led by a country that can actually afford it. The attitude of the Committee on Energy and the Environment is a long, long, long, long – did I say ‘long’, President? – list of proposals on what we can do to cut emissions, but almost bare for a binding majority that will actually lead to lower emissions. With a sluggish strategy, the government has been able to avoid obtaining a majority for new ambitions or measures that really commit to cutting emissions quickly enough to take care of both freedom, Norwegian business, well-being and the future of our children. The process has been quite absurd. The government first chose to negotiate with the Progress Party. Negotiating climate action with the Progress Party has as good odds of success as a snowball in hell. The progress party put early ultimatum against the only instrument in the climate communication that would have actually worked, namely to escalate the CO 2 tax to NOK 2 000 per tonne by 2030. So the big mistake the government parties have made here, unlike previous settlements, was that they did not seek settlement with constructive opposition parties after they broke with the Progress Party. If they had done that, this could have been completely different. Then we could have received a binding escalating plan for the CO 2 tax. We could have secured a lot more greening tools for business conversion, we could have got a big deal on sea wind, we could have got a charging strategy that ensured a good grid of electric cars across the country, and we could have made it easier and cheaper for individuals to invest in energy saving, solar cells and transport on biogas. We didn't get a majority for increased gas prices, because there's also grey populism on the left hand side. Unfortunately, the idea of a fair climate policy that is not to be noticed by anyone lives in the best of both the Labour Party and the Centre Party. Nevertheless, this message would have improved if the government had sought a majority in the opposition, as long as they had stayed away from the Center Party. Because the government parties chose not to negotiate, this setting is a list of 476 proposals, where only 5 get a majority. It's pretty amazing. After eight years with this government, their main big message has been reduced to an unworthy black player game. At the national meeting just before Easter, the Greens adopted a plan as follows: We stop the granting of new oil licences, reduce investment in existing fields and phase out oil refineries as a result of reduced activity. We are accelerating the electrification of public transport, passenger cars, trucks, shipping and aviation. We clean the highest point emissions and replace fossil energy with electricity, responsible biofuels and hydrogen. We cut emissions from agriculture, reduce meat consumption, improve roughage quality, increase biogas production and reduce over-exploitation of fossil fertilisers. If you want a climate policy that works, you need parties that actually prioritize it. This climate announcement shows me that the only thing that can ensure that climate and nature are actually high on the agenda of Norway's next government will be a strong Environment Party of the Greens, preferably on the verge. The climate plan was the government's very last chance in climate policy. It ended in total haari. Conscientious Nordics throughout the country, people most, Norwegian entrepreneurs and all climate strikers in particular deserve a government that puts people and the environment first – a government that does everything it can to bring together a majority on the most important issue of our time, not a government that reduces climate policy to a party political game. Fortunately, it is soon a choice. With that, I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1814	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to. The President would stress that there are better formulations than'snowball in hell' – it is not particularly parliamentary. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1823	The representative Stoknes made a good contribution, which is very easy to agree with very much, and I am pleased that the Green Party, the Labour Party and the other left side are united on a very large number of proposals. He is also quite right that the argument about fair climate policy cannot be used to undermine the effectiveness of climate policy. That's where we stand, and we also make that clear in our statements. But that said, it's important, I think, to bring people along, that climate policy is seen as fair and also inclusive – both because it's good in itself, and because it's a prerequisite for bringing the majority. Then I want to challenge the representative Stoknes: what are the most important steps we have to take to ensure that people perceive climate policy as truly fair, both between social groups and between city and country?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1830	The aim of all climate policies is to cut emissions at a rapid enough pace, because the most unfair climate policy is a climate policy that does not work. In particular, it will address the poor — in Norway, but particularly internationally. All over the world, those with the least of the past will be hit hardest by climate change. In Norway, there may be a single mother who cannot afford to insure the house against water damage in the cellar. In Asia, the most vulnerable are those who lose their lives. It's quick to get caught in a kind of climate nationalism where we just think of climate as a local, Norwegian problem. The Green Party is an international party of solidarity, and we want to raise the international dimension of solidarity. The most important thing we do then is to reduce the differences over the tax bill and use effective measures that reduce emissions themselves. In this way, we can achieve a balance between measures and reducing inequality.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1839	Eivind Tredal from the Environmental Party Dei Green had a tweet yesterday that has had many hearts. In a comment, he says that the Center Party and the Labour Party seem to undermine the climate message provided by the government, and that a red-grey government would be less progressive and climate-friendly than the government we have today. It would then be of interest to know why the Green Party wants to support a government that is leading the least offensive climate policy, rather than a government that has high ambitions and clear objectives, and which, through the Climate Change Communication now, has shown that we are making the transition to a green shift. Because, as I see it, climate issues are important for the Greens' Environment Party, and that is something strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1846	As I was in my main post, both on the right hand side and on the left hand side there is what we can call grey populism. What is important for the Green Party will then be put in such a position that we can get a binding escalation to the $2 000 proposed by this government, but is not willing to commit. When you enter into a possible debate on a support agreement with a government where you have a grey party that may dominate on the right side, and a grey party that dominates on the left side, it will be crucial for the Green Party to look forward to where you will get the most binding agreements to resolve the vital climate crisis we are in the middle of. Unfortunately, this government, with or without the grey right-wing populist party, has not been able to get any commitment in place. We find that deeply regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1851	Now I'm not going to try to make myself delicious for the Green Party, as the previous replicators did. I'm just recording that the Green Party will both shut down the oil industry and shrimp fishing, reduce car traffic, stop flying and impose taxes and taxes on Norwegian industry that the Progress Party does not want. I fear that the Greens can actually see that policy in a new red-green government. I know the representative Stoknes as a pragmatic man who fights for the Environmental Party of the Greens and perhaps often gets an impact on them. Can the representative of Stoknes confirm that these are matters for which they wish to be implemented in a new red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1856	I thank the representative for an excellent question. I can confirm that the Greens will go for the Norwegian industry to become a leader in green innovation and thus help us deliver solutions, system improvements, a resource productivity that is such that when the whole EU and the rest of the world come after – at best – Norwegian industry has positioned itself in the lead. What is happening now in Norwegian business is very fascinating. I travel around and give many lectures and teach people to implement green innovation at a furious pace. If you follow stock exchange launches, for example: In the last 18 months, there are a wide range of green entrepreneurs, ranging from Quantafuel and Nel to the new hydrogen companies that are coming, who are able to find the solutions that are needed. They need predictability, and that predictability is that they can compete with the grey companies. It does not give them this government or the party of progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1865	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1870	Then finally came the government of Solberg's climate plan. At the opinion, the Council of State wrote in February: ‘Climate policy is an investment in the common future and it is an investment we are to combine’. Unfortunately, the government's actions are not enough to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and unfortunately, as in most other areas, joint investment for this government means that many have to neglect, while a few escape. People in the districts, who depend on cars, will be hit hardest by the increase in the CO 2 tax, while the wealthy in central districts will be subsidized to their most expensive electric cars in the future. While increasing the CO 2 tax, the government guarantees that the tax increases will be offset by cuts in the so-called overall level of taxation and charges. After almost eight years with this government, we know what that means. It will mean flat fee increases to people most and tax cuts that benefit the richest. They even say in their own climate statement that the cut in the wealth tax is a climate action. So most people have to pay flat taxes, while the income is paid to the richest. In France, they got the yellow vests because of unfair climate policies. We need to pursue a fair environmental policy in order to ensure a popular response to the necessary measures. That's why we in Red have presented our own plan for cutting emissions as monks, which shows how we can cut emissions while cutting inequalities. Take the CO 2 tax: We support an increase of up to NOK 2 000 per tonne, but we want the income from the tax to be reimbursed to all citizens who have medium or low incomes, and also – for which we are in favour – with a supplement per child and with a geographical differentiation that allows those who live or work in the districts to receive more, so that we compensate for larger transport distances and also less developed public transport. There should be a monthly and tax-free refund, the way child welfare is today, and that is how we avoid the problem of the government’s proposal – that unfortunately it is unsocial and district hostile. With our setup, there's only two losers. It's the ones that have a lot of money, and the ones that have the biggest fossil cars. Another noticeable feature of government policy is excessive belief in technological solutions and continued growth in consumption. We're not going to fly anything smaller, we're just going to fly electrically. It's okay and good, but it's a little naive because all energy production has costs, and the need for renewable energy will be enormous if we continue in the direction that governments set out, with the associated wind power expansion and destruction as a consequence. Therefore, our solution is not only an electrification of the transport sector, but also clear reduction targets in and between cities. We're not opponents of new technology, but we recognize that nature is final, that there are some limited resources, and that the growth of consumption cannot go on indefinitely. A progressive environmental policy is not only more equitable but also more active. The richest households have twice as high emissions as the average, so reducing the differences will also contribute to reducing emissions by itself. Red wish that the opposition could gather on clear and clear demands for a fair environmental policy. It has happened to a limited extent. But we will challenge the government at one point: can they guarantee that the revenue from increased CO 2 tax is not used to cut taxes on wealth, company profits or high revenues? Without such a guarantee, the government's model in climate policy becomes a differential bomb that makes it difficult to bring people in the districts and people with normal or low incomes to the necessary climate action. Finally, a clarification of vote: Red is clear against sea winds. We don't want to risk nature and fishing for a huge expansion that is essentially going to electrify the base. However, we are still voting in favour of those proposals that can improve the development that the majority will be in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1906	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1912	Red has recently had a national meeting that has taken several interesting decisions, to which we have followed closely. One of them is to go away from the end date of Norwegian oil production. There's a point of view we agree with, but it's probably that despite what Red and others decide at their national meeting, Norwegian oil exports will eventually fall due to market conditions, and the world out there is decarbonizing. Norwegian industry and, in particular, industrial workers along the coast are concerned about what to do afterwards. One of the great hopes has been that there would be a great deal of effort on floating sea winds, because it might best fit into the experience we have in the North Sea, the experience we have in the supplier industry, which can almost go straight from building rigs to sea wind platforms. Is it not a little paradoxical that a party claiming to be concerned with the interests of workers and industry is so clearly moving towards what is perhaps one of the great hopes of the future industries on which Norway can build further values?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1919	We are trying to learn from what has happened to countries, where all parties – and that is to be said also Red – a few years ago, quite uncritically I would say, went in to build up quite massively with wind power. Now we've seen the consequences of it and the reactions to it. Not enough attention was given to nature, to local democracy and to the inhabitants. We know that the Fisheries Team is skeptical in many of the proposed areas, because it may conflict with important fisheries interests, a renewable resource forever if it is managed properly. We believe that the Storting must take a breath in the ground in terms of an uncritically massive effort to expand wind power at sea. The sea is not an empty space – there is nature there, there is seabird, there are fish in the sea, which must also be taken care of. Then it's a good idea that there is at least one batch that pulls a little bit into the emergency brake and wants to put these considerations in the driver's seat, rather than go in for a massive expansion at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1926	At first I think it's worth remembering that there's a communist on the pulpit, a very nice guy, but still a representative of one of the most undemocratic and destructive movements humanity has seen in history. As far as the climate plan is concerned, we see today that although there are more than 100 proposals in the communication, and that other parties propose a number of things, Red does not come up with a single proposal itself – despite the fact that the Storting has spent a long time dealing with this matter, and it has been time to get involved in the notification, bring the hearing and make suggestions. Then we've seen in the media that Red has a sort of own climate plan. But it's just that Red admits itself that that climate plan does not contribute to achieving the climate goals. So why does this great resistance to a plan that actually reaches the goals, and instead make a plan that doesn't reach them?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1935	I'm not sure what connection the introduction had with the rest of the post, but I'll leave it. The issue is that the Stortinget has received many proposals for treatment — perhaps more than enough — today, but we are going to present our proposals as a separate proposal to the Stortinget for a more thorough treatment a little later in the spring to get it through the grinder in a solid and proper way. Then, as we mentioned, we come with a plan for emissions cuts as monks, which both bring down emissions and – which the Right never cares about – also bring down the inequalities at the same time, that is, a fair environmental policy, which is in our proposal. So later on we don't, like Stefan Heggelund does, that we have a plan that solves all the problems at the same time. This is a difficult field where considerable intervention is required, not least a country that will be in the driving seat in order to have a green industrial policy, and not least plans to get real emissions cut and build up new industries while the oil and gas industries are being phased out on a planned basis. It's a long-term project for which we have a plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1944	I think it's very difficult for any person to get the Bears Moxnes to become a convinced Right-Man in a two-minute row. But that's not true, what he says about government policy. It is true that yes, we are going to increase the CO 2 tax, we are going to increase emissions, and then we are going to have a green tax shift that means that the total tax and tax pressure does not go up, and that in this way we are going to compensate for the industries affected by a high CO 2 tax, precisely because we are going to contribute to conversion and safe and build Norwegian jobs. Then it is not that there are no support schemes in the field of climate change. On the contrary, we use billions every year to contribute to business and industry conversion precisely to secure and build Norwegian jobs. So what Bears Moxnes says is not true. It doesn't keep saying that climate is a complex area, and that's why we don't have a plan that reaches the climate targets. When will Red present something like reaching the climate targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1957	Here it's just for Stefan Heggelund to read what we put forward several weeks ago in terms of climate that actually monasteries. If the Right cares about reducing both emissions and inequalities, it is possible to support our plan to increase the fees, but also to pay back to all citizens who have medium or low incomes, and also to have a geographical variation on the refund – monthly, tax-free to the inhabitants. It's something quite different than what lies in the Right lowering of the tax level, which is very often about one thing: cutting the taxes for the richest, those who live on the work of others, those who are heirs, owners of capital. They always get billions of billions of Right, while most people very often get tax increases in return without thought because there is a difference between people in Norway. One needs to have a fair policy that brings down the differences, rather than increasing the differences, which are the core right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1962	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e1967	Climate change in Norway is going down steadily, and they are now at their lowest level of 27 years. So with this government's policy, developments are moving in the right direction. I'm glad. But we have bigger ambitions than that. Last February, the government, as the third country in the world, announced a reinforced objective under the Paris Agreement. We need to cut 50-55 pst. By 2030, and we're going to do it with the European Union. The message that Stortinget is addressing today is the concrete follow-up of the government’s ambitious climate goals. This is not the first time that Stortinget is dealing with a climate notification, but it is the first time that a government has presented a concrete plan for a ten-year period, with annual emissions budgets, concrete impact assessments of the instrument and warning of offensive new interventions we are going to implement in the coming years. Climate policy is more than just a spreadsheet of CO 2 equivalents, and the climate is not a sector interest. There's something that permeates everything the government does. This climate plan is transport policy, fiscal policy, industrial policy, research and higher education, oil and gas, energy, agriculture and fisheries. It is hardly a committee at Stortinget or a single department that should not take into account climate policy. This is about society as a whole. The goal is a climate policy that creates a better society – not a worse society – that creates new jobs, new technologies, new opportunities, and that gives more freedom, not less freedom. I am pleased that the management in Stortinget suggests that the most important steps in the climate plan are supported by the majority in Stortinget. Let me, within that time allow, go through some of them. First, in the case of obligations under the Paris Agreement, 50-55 pst. cut, the plural stands behind that target. It's ambitious, but it's possible. The plan shows us how to do it. An important part is coordination with the EU, so the climate plan is based on the very system approach there. The majority are also clear that we should not change the Norwegian climate target by calculating forests in a new way, which weakens ambitions. I also note in the committee's position that all parties, other than the Centre Party, are functioning in the EU's climate policy. I agree with the plural. When it comes to the most important measures in the plan, many have been under an increase in the CO2 tax. This government has already increased the CO 2 tax for several years. We are now notifying that the fee will be up to NOK 2000 in 2030. It's a powerful grip. It'll give you a lot of emission reductions. The majority are behind it. In addition, the government is going to do a lot of what we've done in the last few years. It's putting holes in the system of the CO 2 tax, removing exceptions. This means that the fees now cover several of our emissions, one has a more price-oriented and more effective policy. This is the essence of the principle that forureins have to pay. It's fair, and it's cost-effective. In the public debate, there are many demands for exemptions from that principle from a range of industries and sectors. I'll warn you about that on a general basis. It weakens climate policy and weakens the legitimacy of climate policy. Why are some people gonna pay while others get away? The more exemptions are granted, the more unfair the policy becomes. Instead of implementing all possible exemptions, the government will compensate for the increase in the tax by reducing other taxes and taxes. It will enhance the positive impact of the CO 2 tax on business and society conversion. Another action we announce in the plan is a more offensive use of public purchasing power. Municipalities, county councils and the state are important for the development of climate technologies, through the demands they make, and we are going to make a number of new demands in the next few years – low and zero emissions on ferries, speedboats, zero emissions cars, vans and city buses. All that cuts out powerfully. We will also use biofuels in new sectors to further cut emissions. We're going to carry out a lot of cuts in agriculture and have a binding agreement with the organizations there. All I mention is agreement – in the committee and among the majority in the Stortinget. It provides foresight, it's ambitious, and it allows us to reach our climate targets. And it's important to have that kind of unity, because forbearance is an important principle in the government's climate plan. By notifying new policies now, we give business time to change. They know what a tonne of CO 2 will cost to get out in 10 years. They know what the public needs to do with new purchases. They know what we expect from agriculture, they know what we're going to do with biofuels in blending. We're now going to have a plan to achieve the Norwegian climate change target. That's good. We will carry out many actions over the years, many investments, carbon capture and storage, research and innovation. And it's not that everything is going to be ready today. We will continue to adopt budgets and action plans and invest in the Norwegian economy, create jobs and cut emissions. But this provides foresight, it gives an overview, and it makes sure that we can say that we're going to be able to achieve the 2030 climate measurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2015	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2020	When the climate announcement was presented, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said that they would negotiate it with the Progress Party. What those negotiations have led to is very unclear, because there is not one proposal that they agree on. There is hardly one note on all of these 400-500 sides where the government parties stand together with the Progress Party. There has been no climate settlement, the government parties have not wanted any talks with the opposition, and of the approximately 500 proposals there are only three that the government parties vote for. Then it is absolutely right that they get the majority against them, because unlike Sveinung Rotevatn, I believe that the Progress Party is a bad partner in climate policy. That's why it was totally irrelevant to find some community between all the opposition parties, but a lot of community has been found on the red-green side. When business has said what they want, it's more important than having a proposal here and there, and it's been important to get predictability. What is the reason why the government parties and Sveinung Rotevatn have not wanted to achieve a broad climate settlement with as many parties as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2029	Through the debate, I have noticed that there is a great deal of interest in some parties for the government party to take responsibility for making climate policy the opposition party better. I think it's a strange approach to politics. We have said quite clearly that we are too broad an agreement on climate policy when it can improve climate policy. The proposals that the large parties that can form multiples with the government – the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Advance Party – have presented during these discussions are largely things that will weaken climate policy: new exemptions for CO 2 tax, new proposals that will bring about the effects of important instruments. I think it's better with a government with a good climate plan than a weak climate settlement. Now we have a good climate plan, we have to implement it. And then I also said in my post, which I hope the representative listened to, that the most important steps have multiple: increased fees, biofuel blending, the plan for agriculture, new public demands for purchases. This'll cut 20 million. tonnes of CO 2 up to 2030. This means that we are overcomplying with the climate target, and more than I should find reason to rejoice today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2043	What the Council of State says shows that he may not have read the setting – if he believes that all the 500 proposals he refers to are in the process of weakening the climate communication. On the contrary, almost all of the proposals make the climate communication more ambitious. As I said, 150 of them are all the four opposition parties to the left of him behind. All of these would have made the climate announcement more ambitious. I would like to draw up one example, which the government parties have opposed, and for which it would be thought that the Left was for – as a party that says they are too small and medium-sized enterprises. We say that it is right that the business community pays, the polluter pays. That's the right principle. The alternative to the polluter paying is that everyone pays. When we make demands, we should also make demands. That is why the Workers' Party has taken the initiative to establish a climate partnership, as Mette Frederiksen has done in Denmark. There is – so far – an idea the door has melted again from the Right, Left and Advance Party. My question to Sveinung Rotevatn is: Why is he opposed to establishing climate partnership agreements with industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2048	We have a number of agreements with the business community on everything from reducing food throws to NO x contracts and working together on important support schemes. That's not what's missing. And unfortunately, it is not right, as Mr Aukrust says, that all the proposals made by the Labour Party will strengthen Norwegian climate policy. On the contrary, a number of them weaken him quite strongly, for example. one of them – which even seems to have multiples for – that is to give the largest point emission source in the non-quota sector, incineration, exemption for sector taxes. According to the Worker's Lot, it's going to cost zero to release CO 2 all the way up to 2030. What would it do with the investment desire for carbon capture and storage? I'm worried about that. Fortunately, however, the Labour Party has also moved in the right direction in this process; they have opted for a higher level of CO 2 tax than they were when the message was sent. Several have also moved, the Central Party, after a long internal debate, has been in favour of Norway's climate objectives, it is very positive. The Progress Party has presented its own climate plan, it is also good. So I want to say that even if we don't have a wide deal about everything, the Storting has moved in a climate-friendly direction. It's good for the climate, and it's good for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2064	Then I will ask Sveinung Rotevatn a specific question. Of the 500 proposals that have been put forward, the Left is voting against all of them. Does he really think that none of them had made the climate announcement more ambitious?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2069	Firstly, it is not right that the Left votes against all of them. The Left and Government parties are on a few of the proposals, among others. what is involved in charging infrastructure, that is good. I have read these suggestions, and I want to say that a roughly set can divide them into three categories. One is a line that will greatly weaken Norwegian climate policy – from many parties. The second is when a government asks to do what the government already does. The third thing is that roughly it's very difficult to understand what is really going to mean, of the kind of government has to figure out something clever to solve this problem. That doesn't mean that everything the opposition party comes with is bad politics, but what I'm happy about is that what the government comes with as a mandatory climate plan is supported by a number of people in this process when it comes to the essential grips – including the Labour Party. I'd say that's good. I am pleased that the Labour Party is involved at a higher level of CO 2 tax, there has been a positive development in that process. I am pleased that the Labour Party supports tough supply requirements for ferries, fast boats, city buses, etc. That's good. And if one reads the emission budget in the plan, that's what targets us.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2081	Agriculture is the only industry that has entered into a binding agreement with the Government on greenhouse gas emissions. There were high expectations for this climate plan, for concrete measures to contribute to the conversion of agriculture. So now the Council of State has stood here on the pulpit and said that he has a plan for agriculture. He also answered the representative before me that he has a plan for agriculture. The centre party has put in place many concrete measures in the setting of this climate communication. We propose, among other things: establishing a ‘Bionova’, an agricultural climate fund, to contribute to migration. We propose not to impose a levy on Norwegian meat, bet on carbon storage in soil and forest, bet on bioenergy – a number of positive measures. So I wonder, what is the plan of the Council of State? What kind of action in this climate communication is it that makes agriculture turn muscles into more climate friendly?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2088	I found it a bit strange to mention a proposal not to impose a levy on Norwegian meat, as a climate action. Now the government hasn't paid for any such fee, and the Center Party asks us not to go in for such a fee, then we're pretty much the same distance. But I also record that the Center Party in its programme proposes its own climatosis on foreign meat. So one thinks that foreign meat is a climate problem, while Norwegian meat is not. I think that the Centre Party is about where they often – not always – have said that they think it is good with a positive instrument for Norwegian agriculture. And there's a lot that's good with that. What distinguishes agriculture from many other sectors is that in Norway we have a tradition of having annual agricultural policy, where the government talks with agricultural organizations and becomes a few of the important conditions for that industry in the future. That's why I don't go into detail on fine-tuning her by decision in Stortinget in advance. We need to talk to the agricultural organisations, for example: in a couple of weeks, on agricultural policy, and then the climate will certainly be high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2095	That is the whole problem of this climate communication: you don't go into detail, you don't come up with concrete measures – no positive instruments. I probably wouldn't call this a plan at all, because the only measure the government and the Left come with is a triple of the CO 2 tax, which sends the bill to people and business. And as I was about to say, there is not one positive measure in this message that contributes to conversion, without the bill being sent into captivity on people all over the country. So I want to challenge the Council of State, which I challenged the representatives of the Left earlier today, to mention five positive actions in this climate plan that contribute to conversion, without sending the bill to people and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2105	I've noticed that the representative and others from the Center Party so far today have consistently talked about that the climate plan is not a plan, it's just ambitions, and he'll at the same time rage what Norway we know, and ruin the business world. One has to decide whether one thinks it or one thinks it's the other – either it's completely non-committal and means nothing, or it's going to have terrible consequences for everyone who lives in this country. The truth is that there is a concrete plan with many positive consequences – lower emissions, less noise and pollution in our cities and a more adaptable business that can compete. And it's not right, as many people have said, that CO 2 tax is the only tool that monks here. The plan is to cut 20 million. tonnes up to 2030, and 7.5 of them resulting from the CO 2 tax. So it shows that it's important, but it's far from being the only cut or the majority of cut here. And the rest are things that I guess the Center Party is for, even though they're opposed to increasing the fees. I think they're too much use of biofuels, I think they're too open, tough demands on public procurement, I think they're too climate change in agriculture, I think they're too carbon capture and storage, and so is the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2116	During the debate we have been thoroughly informed that the government's climate communication is very non-binding. There is a lot of government wants and aims to do and want to investigate, but when the opposition turns vague targets into binding action, then the government parties vote against. But that is not what I want to ask, because not enough of that, when we also promote proposals that are on the Granavolden platform, the government's own platform, and which are totally lacking in the climate communication, the government parties vote against it too. So my question is, why does the government no longer want to introduce support to charging stations and charging points in housing camps and joint ventures? Why does the government no longer want fossil-free construction sites in the construction industry, only for the transport sector? And why won't the government support the many proposals to bet on electric planes?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2123	I thought it was very good that SV thought that both the climate plan and the Granavolden platform – the government has agreed to this – were so great for the climate that they asked us to go in for it once more. It must then be an unbelievably good climate policy. It would probably have been possible for the representative Haltbrecken to divide the climate plan into single sentences, even in single words, and promote everyone as a proposal in the Stortinget, and see if we dare to vote in favour or against them. But anyone who's been in the Storting for more than 5 minutes knows that it has nothing to do with the realities of a political debate. The plan is for the government to implement. Some things are in the plan, and we've shown not only that we have good plans, but that we can actually implement them, because emissions in Norway are going down. They go down evenly every year, at their lowest level of 27 years. I hope and believe we have managed to achieve the 2020 target, and this plan will show that we will be able to achieve the 2030 target. It is tempting to ask back whether SV thought that the Labour Party and the Central Party's policy were better than the government's, but I do not ask the questions here.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2130	I have to say that I think it is impressively willing to hear representatives from both the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left repeating and boasting that we now have very low emissions, and that this is mainly due to imported biofuels and a pandemic. The point is that we are high, high above emission reductions compared to what Sweden, Finland, Denmark, our dear neighbours have done. A new publication, also based on OECD data, shows that since 2005, Norway has been close to the bottom of 32 developed countries in terms of green growth, far ahead of Poland. So the Greens absolutely support an increase in the CO 2 tax to NOK 2 000, and we are pleased that it has been promoted, but the question is: Why will the Left, led by the Committee on Energy and the Environment, not see to it that we have a binding increase to 2030, and will that chance just pass away?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2139	Firstly, I believe that the representative Stoknes is so versed in climate statistics that he knows very well that so far a single official climate statistics have not been published in Norway from the pandemic year. What we're building on is previous statistics, and it shows that emissions in Norway go down year by year and are at their lowest level of 27 years. I hope that the Greens will find reason to rejoice, even if I know they will. So the question is very good, simply how to make sure that this plan becomes mandatory in the future. The size is to a large extent sovereign, but the most important guarantee that this is mandatory is that we participate in obligatory cooperation across the EU, where we have a climate budget every year, and the plan shows how we are to achieve the objective. I think then that the Greens/Greens/European Environment Party, which wants to replace government on the side where we are willing to get a majority of representatives against the EEA Agreement, should perhaps highlight it as an important climate requirement until they intend to join the government. Because that's the guarantee that we actually have to reach our climate targets. And there's the government on top of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2146	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2153	The goal of the Centre Party is a Norway with small social and geographical differences where we have a policy that develops the whole country. When we are going to discuss and deal with climate policy, it will always be like a leadership. How can we pursue a climate policy that does not reinforce social and geographical differences? How can we pursue a climate policy that enables us to develop all of Norway? If we are to succeed in climate policy, we must ensure that that policy does not reinforce other conflicts that we have in Norway and in other countries. We're going to have the emissions down, and we're going to increase the CO 2 in soil and forest. The size joins ambitious goals today, but it is not easy to achieve those goals. That is why, in the Central Party, we believe that we need an active state with an active public sector. This applies to transport, and we can, for example, use CO 2 funds in industry, because we need a number of new measures to bring about new green industry and new jobs in Norway. Furthermore, we can generate new energy and have an active policy in agriculture and forestry. There are great possibilities if you want, and if you have a desire to use an active state. But when I listen to Minister of Climate and Environment Sveinung Rotevatn, I am a little surprised, because it is one of the main actions he is raising. It's increased CO 2 fee. It's like the big mantra – a triple of the CO 2 fee. He also talks about a binding plan for Norway until 2030. The truth is that the government has not been given any climate compromise when dealing with this climate communication. There is no broad support for this climate plan in Stortinget. It's no more obligatory than that this is a message, and then there's every government budget in the future and any number of large numbers that decide which policy we're going to have in the next few years. The main recipe of today's government is a recipe for major differences. If you're just going to have a flat increase in the CO 2 tax with a triple, it's a different recipe. It's not sustainable over time, and it's not going to get a political majority if there's going to be a new government in Norway, because we have to have a policy that doesn't reinforce the differences. So Rotevatn says that it's fair if everyone gets increased fees the same amount. It's not fair. It is fundamentally unfair — if you think it's as good for an enterprise as Equinor to get increased fees as for the local fisherman. Of course, it's unfair, because the local fisherman has much less carrying capacity to take such a fee increase. Of course, it's unfair e.g. for those in North Norway who are dependent on the use of Onternøe, if they are to receive a large fee increase which means that they no longer have an offer on the short-haul network, while for example: Here you can run the T-Bahn or the tram. Producing a tripling of the CO 2 tax as a fair measure is a fundamental misunderstanding. What has been the tradition in Norway is that we have adapted our policies to what we have in Norway, and not to a blind policy of differences that today's Left and Right government puts up, unfortunately with the support of the Workers' Party until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2184	Today there is a lost opportunity in climate policy. There is every reason for the thousands of children and young people who have repeatedly fought for action against the climate crisis, those who stood outside the Storting here in Oslo, those who gathered around small and large places throughout our country to demand action by the politicians, to be terribly disappointed by the government. The climate strikes are not heard by this government. For what is the phase of climate communication, really? What are the government parties that have supplied us with? Well, a collection of measures that are going to bring us, at best, about. halfway to the target. So you don't have the climate plan that Norway needs, a plan for how to implement the goals we've committed ourselves to, in just nine years, and for implementing the major societal changes required to achieve them. Instead, we have a government that focuses on the one great grip it is proposing, an increase in the CO 2 tax, which is important, but which is obviously not enough alone, and which sums up what is the main line of this government in climate policy, namely that ultimately it is the market and market mechanisms that are to solve the climate crisis. And that's not going to happen. We need a completely different and much more active climate policy. SV has provided the climate budget where we show how we can achieve the targets, tonnes per tonne, measures for action, crowns for crowns. We have a plan for implementing the green transformation of Norwegian society, creating a fair green shift where we are betting on sea wind and hydrogen, carbon capture and storage, the bioindustry, the battery industry and becoming world leaders on green shipping, and we have a plan for how the green shift can be fair. Indeed, there are social and geographical challenges related to, for example: increased CO 2 tax, but it must be more expensive to pollute if we are to succeed. So instead of looking for problems, we have to look for the solutions to it, like a green people's bonus, that will pay money back to people so that we get both the emissions and the differences down, or funds that allow industries to use increased taxes to convert themselves. The big gap in government policy, alongside the measures that are missing, is the lack of change. Here is not the settlement of oil dependence that Norway needs, the measures to stop looking for new fossil energy, at a time when more fossil energy has already been found than we can burn if we are to avoid catastrophic global warming. It's sad that the government is so self-satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2203	Then we have come to the point that voting will be called, and then the debate will continue immediately after voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2215	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2227	The President first takes up the further reading of the Prime Minister’s statement on the pandemic — strategy for reopening society — statement made in the Storting yesterday, 7 April. The President will propose that the statement be annexed to the minutes. The representative of Audun Lysbakken proposed in the Commentary Round after the presentation that the statement be sent to the Committee. After the President has understood, SV wishes the presentation to be sent to the Special Committee to deal with specific cases relating to the coronary crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2243	The size then goes to voting on the case no. 1-12 and Case No. 19 on today's map. Case No. 1–6 is the second processing of laws and applies to legislative acts 81 to 86. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2259	Case No. 7 is the second reading of the law and applies to the act 87. During the debate, the representative Svein Roald Hansen put forward a proposal for a legislative opinion on behalf of the Financial Committee. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The legislative decision is not accepted. Note: For the purposes of II, the following provision shall be adopted to be amended as follows: Paragraph 3-3(c) fifth paragraph is replaced by the following: Information on future developments or conditions under negotiation may be omitted from the statement if the board of directors considers that taking disclosure would seriously prejudice the business situation of the entity, provided that such omission does not prevent a fair and balanced understanding of the entity's development, performance, position and consequences of its activities. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2290	The comment on Law Decision 87 is therefore supported. The legislative decision, with the opinion adopted, will be taken until the third reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget. Case No. 8–10 is the second reading of laws and applies to Acts 88 to 90. There are no comments. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2308	During the debate, Mr Lundtigen has tabled two proposals on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking that the compensation scheme for workers affected by restrictions on entry applies to employees who were outside Norway’s borders on 29 January 2021 and who are not authorised to enter into employment by our authorities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks that employees who, for special reasons such as sickness, birth or funerals in a close family, return to their country of origin be allowed to enter Norway when the situation arises is over.’
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2463	It is first voted on Chapter 3640, item 10. The Progress Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2477	It is votated over the other chapters of the recommendation. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2533	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2547	Since several representatives have voted incorrectly, we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2559	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2574	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2617	The President proposes that Document 8:187 S be dealt with under point (e) of the second paragraph of Paragraph 39 of the Rules of Procedure, that it be rejected. The representative, Mr Arnstad, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2624	I would like to propose that this be forwarded to the Financial Committee. It is true that a proposal from the Progress Party was voted down not long ago, but the proposal from the Centre is broader than the proposals from the Progress Party and includes not only enterprises but also workers. In addition, no proposal for a refund scheme from 1 March has been examined in the past. With regard to the issue of stocks of goods, it has sometimes been difficult for the government to follow up the decision of the Storting. It is possible that this is happening now, but the Financial Committee will be able to decide whether to deal with the specific issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2631	Several have not asked for the word. The procedure for document 8:187 S is then contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2837	We're going back to the treatment of today's map, and the next speaker is Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2842	‘The man-made climate change will lead to serious and irreversible consequences for animals, nature and humans across the globe. The fight against climate change requires that we act together vigorously to cut greenhouse gas emissions in a global effort." Those are not my words. [[...]] That's the government's word, and that's the beginning of the climate communication we're dealing with here. Unfortunately, based on the debate that has been here today, it is obvious that many people in this room – and I also think quite a few outside this room – believe that we failed at that very thing, because we can't together make that skill. The sticks are too big; the will to girl was too small. I must say that I think the representatives of the government parties go a long way in their own self-satisfaction with the communication that has been presented. The representative Heggelund even uses the rhetoric of the schoolyard in his post and his self-satisfaction with the government's announcement and presents as a fact what the state of this sector will be in ten years' time. It's taking big words in its mouth. And it's clear that if it's been representative of how the committee's work has been, it might not be so strange that we didn't reach an agreement. It is not just in Norway that we have challenges to meet the climate targets. That's also what characterizes the global situation. The forecasts, models and projections we see so far show that we do not reach the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We are facing major challenges. The models we see for the Arctic, for example, show that we no longer face a doubling of the average heating – no, we see a triple. And when the forecast is that we get a global warming of about 3°C in 2100, it means an average in the Arctic, for example. the northern areas of Norway, approximately 10 °C. It will have devastating consequences for the life and opportunities we have today if we do not achieve the objectives. That is why I have a challenge for the Council of States, which he must take with him to his colleague who is going to attend the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in May. Arctic Council and their observers, who are responsible for about 80 p.m. of global emissions, also has four million people living in the Arctic. They have to take responsibility, go ahead and show ambitions when, hopefully, they're going to meet in Glasgow later, in the fall, to find mechanisms to reach the Paris Agreement. The government must also deliver on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2855	We now have a long time working with climate communication – business, organisations, municipalities and individuals. It has been a fantastic commitment to make this as good a plan as possible – a plan that will help us to advance the development we have started through the green shift, a plan that builds up under our advantage as an industrial nation based on green values, without tearing down and putting wasted jobs and well-being in such a transition. All sectors have contributed to the work. Then there is some work ahead of us to find good arrangements for the measures we have set for, which we will do with the industries themselves, such as. before fishing and agriculture. The social partners and local authorities see their role in this work, and they want to be involved and contribute. No one will be left on the platform as an environmental sink and will not see that it is necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reduce energy consumption. It is a great success that goes hand in hand with all parts of government’s work, both adopted strategies – such as green shipping and hydrogen strategy – and emerging strategies, such as the energy message and the circular economy strategy. Everything is wobbled into a large web, where the threads merge into each other and the tissue becomes strong, and where there is a large seal that will lead this shoot into the future. A thorough work has been carried out in the run-up to Climate Change 2030, and all industries have been soaked in measures that will provide concrete results for the scale that the Storting has seen. The government has, through its work, come up with measures and solutions that can be seen to be well wound up, and that are far-reaching. We see that from the opposition's side there have been many suggestions, but a holistic policy that can be adjusted to what has been presented by the government, we can't find that. It hasn't been a cork's ability or a will to get it out of the opposition's side. The red-green tissue seemed full of holes and loose ends, and there are contradictions in the calculator that don't go up. The government has provided a message that builds on an important principle such as the payment of the impure, and it will be more expensive to pollute. We believe in the industry and the innovative forces that lie here, and therefore we will facilitate technology to be an important hub for securing jobs and taking us into the renewable world. Even if we are at the end of the handling of the climate message today, it is now the job starts, and no one should believe that this is going to be easy, we have been strongly documented through days of hearing. But this way we're going to go together with all those who will be affected by the actions we're doing, and who will be important contributors to us now reaching our common goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2872	In a way, today’s communication is encouraging, and it shows that the 2030 objectives of the Paris Agreement can be fully achieved. It is fully possible to achieve the legal obligations we have assumed. We can do it, but it is clear that agriculture needs concrete positive measures to get there, not just beautiful desires. We can do it in the case of biofuels, if we really do it. We can also use the forest actively, and everyone knows that it doesn't have much to say about the 2030 targets, but we also know that the Environment Directorate in Climate Action says that if it is to have a long-term impact by 2050 and 2070, it has to get started quickly. We can do it through increased efforts at CCS and on renewable energy. The electrification of the socket is also an important part of it, sail if I think it makes sense that that debate gets a little nuanced, because there is not absolutely all the fields on the socket that are going to be electrified. There's some that's better suited than others. The government's only recipe is a tripling of the CO 2 tax because they have fallen in love with what they call green tax change, where they first have to charge through increased CO 2 tax and then give tax relief to someone. We don't know who, but someone. There's a thinking the center part is enormously skeptical. Not only that, but the government parties later also as if they could commit the government's budget expenditure nine years in advance. No one can. This plan may reflect a wish, a will, but it cannot bind up to the budgetary practices of the state over the next nine years. In addition, the government’s message has also been that a person has had little dialogue with different industries and with municipalities. One has ingested some kind of top and down-position to some part of what is proposed. Government parties have used a little of today to say that this is a kind of grandiose climate plan. No, that's not it. It is a very common, general report of big business where the government only has a majority of four-five proposals. The remainder is annexed to the Protocol, which means that not many operational decisions are taken. I agree with the representative Stoknes when he says that it bears the mark of a government that has not even tried to reach agreement with the parties on the Stortinget. Then we all agree on the objectives, and that's important, but to that, in the opinion of the Center Party, a practical, soil-based and fair climate policy is needed that is understood and accepted among people. If climate action is only a tax, it will create geographical and social divisions in our society that can destroy the legitimacy of the entire climate policy in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2891	This is a big day. We're going to achieve the 2030 climate targets. It's getting more expensive to pollute, it's getting heavily invested in new technologies, and we're securing economic growth. Emissions have fallen by this government. They haven't been lower since the OL on Lillehammer, but they have to keep going down. What we have to do is cut emissions while increasing economic growth, creating jobs, creating values and not creating conflicts. We need to bring business together, set climate requirements that create new, profitable markets, invest in new climate technologies and make it easy and profitable to choose climate friendly. So how do we get to that? What exactly is in this plan? What more are we debating today than whether it is the Central Party or the Labour Party that is the most diesel-powered party? Well, what we're talking about is making it more expensive to release greenhouse gases while lowering other taxes and taxes. Then we discuss the phase-in of new low- and zero-emission solutions. There will be a requirement for zero emissions from public purchases of passenger cars, vans, buses and ferries. There will be several pilot projects for fossil-free sites. There's going to be more heavy stakes on sustainable biofuels, and together with the agricultural organizations, we're cutting 5 million tons of CO 2 equivalent. We deliver the largest green industrial project in Norway, Langskip – the CO 2 capture, transport and storage project. We're increasing the CO2 capture in the forest. We are focusing heavily on green research and innovation – and the list goes on, as it is called. But I'm going to give the left-hand side one thing. It is a pity that we do not get a broad agreement here today – that the offensive policy we have been discussing in the climate field should now be attacked from, for example. SV, because they have suddenly become towards renewable energy, and as Lightbaken said in the pulpit here instead, because SV is against the market and business. Then, of course, it will be a little difficult to agree. The Labour Party has decided to become a diesel populist in competition with the Centre Party, which is always against all climate action unless it is possible to put the word ‘district’ ahead. Maybe they would have been more positive if we called this government's district policy climate plan? To attack the most offensive climate plan in Norway's history because it is completely impossible for the Centre Party to agree with SV and the Workers' Party, which again does not agree with the Green Party, sounds a little bit hollow and smells a lot of political games. This case is more important than that. The best thing for the climate issue is increased predictability and increased consensus, because we are, despite the debate today, agree on quite a lot. Almost all the parties in this room have understood the seriousness of what we're in, and that gives me hope. I'm optimistic, and I'm very happy to be part of a party that has taken on the leadership jersey in the climate issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2913	The working party’s climate policy is fair, realistic and feasible. We cut emissions, and we create jobs. It's socially and geographically fair. Among other things, the country shall enter into mandatory climate partnership with industry and other deferred industries on measures to facilitate the transition to fossil-free solutions. Here you need to agree how much to cut and what to do to get to the destination. In combination with the mandatory climate partnership, separate climate funds or other support schemes may be established and the agreements shall be in place before the CO 2 charge is escalated. In this way, we will maintain jobs and promote new technologies that cut emissions. The competitiveness of industry is preserved both in the quota sector and in the non-quota sector. It is then necessary to clarify how the non-quota sector can organise conversion support measures in order to maintain competitiveness. It is inconceivable that the non-quota sector, which would not meet the requirements of the quota sector, should be given the strictest requirements. Here, support measures must be taken in cooperation with the industries, so that they cut out and don't work. The extension of the European ETS to new areas is also important here. The requirement for closing down with the climate measure is that we have enough clean and reasonable power. An overall plan for electrification, the development of clean power and energy efficiency is high time that we got ahead. Green industry investment and industrial development will require an offensive, targeted, sustainable and long-term industrial policy. State instruments must be set up to enable future value creation through clear requirements and regulation and active use of incentive schemes, targeted research and development and sustainable capital. Capital that can take risks has longer time horizons than private investors normally have. This requires an active industrial policy and an active country. It is difficult to understand why energy efficiency is lost as a central goal for Enova, and one can conclude that the mainland industry uses the scheme to a small extent today. The mandate of Enova needs to be reviewed and changed. The task is to secure and create jobs and cut emissions. The Labour Party has a climate policy for the whole country that sees ordinary people first. Making sure that there's a transition where emissions are cut, but that creates jobs and reduces differences, is something we can only do together. It will then need more of the industrial policies that create jobs, while more of the climate policies provide for emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2929	It is fantastic to be here today and to be part of the promotion of a climate plan for Norway, a plan that, with Storting's agreement, will largely be implemented as the government has presented it. This is a plan that in many ways confirms action. It confirms action – plans and measures to reduce harmful emissions, emissions that could eventually lead to a land that makes it difficult for humans and animals to live here. This is precisely why international cooperation is so important in order to achieve our goals. We have committed ourselves through the Paris Agreement with almost all countries around the world to cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and we do so to ensure that our children and future generations will also live on an earth where fresh air, clean water and crops from earth and sea are as natural to them as it has been to us. That's what we're going to succeed in, and that's what motivates us to reduce emissions. For many years, there has been talk about climate and the importance of doing something. And for the most part – a lot is done, and many are preparing for a change. I remember the first news about ozone holes in the atmosphere. It was in the 1970s when you started talking about it. I still remember how we shook our heads over hearing that the propellant in our spray boxes contributed to making holes in the atmosphere, and that there were a lot of things we used, that emitted gases that damaged the air. It was new to us who were young people back then. One small spray box we had at home – so there were so many of them in use all over the world that the propellant actually became a serious threat to the environment on Earth. But that also gives hope, because if we can reduce all of these small and large emission sources together, we also know that it will produce results, even though there are no longer just small spray boxes we're going to replace the contents of. To succeed, we need to be willing to change in some areas, we need to be willing to work and think in another way, a more climate-friendly way, and we need to think about Earth's sustainability in everything we do. This climate plan takes on board the challenges we need to address in order to meet our commitments. It contains instruments that contribute to a greener Norway in absolutely all areas. The CO 2 tax is the most mentioned, but also the most important and effective instrument for promoting climate-friendly solutions. It is a gradual escalation and it is intended to compensate for the higher-cost industries. It's the polluter-pays principle that underlies this. It will be demanding in the future, not least for the industries that are experiencing today an uncertainty about the alternative to operating their business, and there will be a great deal of responsibility on us as authorities to balance the transition also for them. But I think this is both right and imperative to do, and I believe that we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2957	It is urgent to convert Norwegian society into a fossil-free direction, both because Norway is a country with large emissions due to our oil and gas production, and for Norwegian business to become a leading force in the green shift. It will bring competitiveness into the future. The central part has a much more nuanced view of the agency in order to achieve its goal than the government has. It may seem that the climate tax is the salivating instrument, especially the CO 2 tax, and that is in some cases, but not if these charges happen blindly and create virtually unresolvable challenges for those who do not have an alternative. New technologies must be available. To ban cruise boats in the World Heritage fjords, as the majority in this room have done – as in Aurland – before one knows whether renewable technology will be available, is to shoot in the blind. If we in Lærdal take the cruise boats into our long NATO port, as we call it – NATO-kai – and transport them with diesel buses to Flåm through the world's longest tunnel, a result will be greater emissions compared to what the majority in this room wanted. And of course we can do that, it's perfectly legal. The centre party has programmed that it should pay the polluter, but it is bad climate policy to give foreign producers competitive advantages that allow us to move from short-term Norwegian low-carbon products to imported high-temperature products. It is quite wrong that imported goods cannot calculate their footprint, their climate pressure, as we do for Norwegian. The centre party will have an active state that uses resources to stimulate technology development and industry, and that can lead us from fossil to non-emission society. Earlier today I attended a meeting with the company Evoy in Florø. They produce battery-powered boats. They could indicate that Enova’s “Battery for Ships” supplement is only for buyers from the offshore, fishing and farming industries. Travel life along our coast has a far worse order. They could also state that tomorrow, on April 9, the incendiary will cut with about 25 p.m. Why? I hope that the Council of State can respond to that during the debate. I asked a few weeks ago the Council of State about recreational boats. When I applied for ‘recreational boats’ in the government’s climate plan, I got zero hits. The Environment Directorate estimated a few years ago that recreational craft emitted 531,000 tonnes of CO 2 in 2017. It's more than the whole fishing fleet, it's more than all the ferries. When the bulk thinks that there should be technology available to electrify large cruise ships in 2026, it should be advisable to replace recreational boats to power boats, at least the 89 pst. which only uses the boat for short trips. Why is that so? I hope that the Council of State can say a little about why he thought it was okay with free diesel at sea, but not to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e2976	The pandemic has shown how vulnerable the world is. Climate change is also changing the world faster than expected. Petroleum revenues will decrease, and we are facing major challenges. There is therefore a need for clear political leadership. It is therefore sad that we in the Grand Duchy have failed to achieve a broad settlement on how to set up measures to reduce emissions, while also contributing to change, increased employment and value creation. We're totally dependent on getting people and businesses with us on the changes, we're going to succeed. The government parties have shown little willingness and interest in getting the broad agreement so that both people and businesses know what is expected of them to achieve the emission targets and how increased CO 2 tax will be compensated so that both people and businesses get the predictability they want. The companies want to change and take the opportunity space that is, but then they need to know what framework conditions they have. Climate challenges require a massive transition from fossil to renewable energy. Electrification is the most cost-effective to achieve emissions reductions. The major benefits are in transport and new forward-looking industries based on just renewable energy. It will provide jobs and value creation while cutting greenhouse gas emissions. Increased access to renewable energy is therefore one of the most important measures to manage the transition. Today's power system is not rigged for the rapid conversion we're facing. Already, there are several regions that lack transmission capacity and have to say no to industrial establishment. In addition to network capacity, production needs to be increased. The power systems become more complex with greater elements of unregulated production. We need to put in place and develop new technologies that make it possible to use the network more efficiently and keep costs down. The Labour Party therefore believes that we need a comprehensive strategy to respond to how the energy system should be developed in order to achieve the climate goals we have set in 2030 and 2050. Sweden has already decided to develop such a strategy. The aim must be to improve the organisation of power systems for new industrial development and green migration, and not just for security of supply. Parts of industry and vulnerable industries such as fishing, short sea shipping and agriculture experience considerable uncertainty as to how to meet the challenges of increasing CO 2 tax, in particular, when they lack mature technology. Therefore, the Workers' Party believes that we need transitional arrangements to develop such fossil-free solutions. This must happen now, before the CO 2 taxes are escalated, so that we succeed in the cuts that we have decided to reach in 2030 – and not least in 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3001	I am very pleased with that position and the responsibility the Right takes to help Norway achieve its climate goals. In their nearly eight years in government, the right has been actively working to cut emissions. And the policy works – emissions go down, without stopping development. We are making good incentive arrangements so that business can take part in the necessary transformation to achieve our climate goals. At the same time, climate change is at the same time giving us a great opportunity for business development today. But to take advantage of the opportunities that lie in the green shift, we need a business that takes the clear signals of turning in a greener direction. We're lucky to have company managers and employees who've really sat in the driver's seat to become greener, smarter and therefore also more innovative, this well-helped by instinctive arrangements from the government. The appropriations for Enova have almost doubled in recent years. Over the years I have been to Stortinget, I have been visiting and having had meetings with forward-looking business managers and not least entrepreneurs who see the opportunities to create something new through the green shift. At Celsa Nordic in Mo in Rana, which produces steel for the world market, they have invested hundreds of millions to become greener. They emitted 100 000 tonnes of CO 2 equivalent in 2019 and aim to halve this by 2030. It's ambitious, but they're going to be able to do it, well-helped by various government support schemes, like SkattenFUNN, the Research Council and Enova. Because of the clear signals from the government on greener shipping, we also see that both ferries, speedboats, farmed vessels and fishing vessels, etc. is through a major change of technology, shifting to more or less zero-emission technologies. In Meløy, Northland, we have a shipowner who is also involved in the green shift in his shipping company, Selvag Senior. Reder Egil Sørheim said it so clearly in an interview, that we need to adjust to the goals set by the government to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions. The design of the ship has worked closely against the shipbuilding environment in Norway and Sintef in the design of the hull. When the vessel is finished in 2023, it will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 42 pst. in relation to the corresponding vessel. The government's climate policy facilitates cuts in emissions, while giving us greener growth and value creation in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3017	Nearly 20 years ago, when I was about 15 years old, I was working towards the expansion of the Snow White field in the Barents Sea. In Nature and Youth, we were working against the constant expansions of the oil industry and for renewable energy. My good colleague Lars Haltbrecken was also in Nature and Youth, quite enough a few years before me, and he and Nature and Youth fought that time against the development of polluting gas power plants in Norway. I take this little look back at our and Nature and Youth's history to illustrate that the climate struggle has been taking place in Norway for three decades. The environmental movement and parties have been working against greenhouse gas emissions and for climate solutions for three decades. Fortunately, although all the batches here have moved in the right direction, there are some who should take on the historical responsibility of their batches for excessive greenhouse gas emissions in Norway and the lack of migration here. That means there's a lot to do about it, because we have a huge amount of bad time. In the fight against dangerous climate change, it is about the total amount of greenhouse gases that we are releasing. The atmosphere is like a bathtub – for every year as it goes, we fill it more and more, and finally it's going to run over. And we're already there today, because we notice the consequences. Inevitably, both we and our children will notice the consequences, experience a poorer nature, a poorer world because of those changes. In the climate fight, it does not just hold with a power cap in 2029. Each tonne of greenhouse gas is a greenhouse gas that heats up the globe, and that is the sum that determines. With what is contained in the climate communication we are dealing with here today, and as Norway is on its way, we will eventually have to pick up greenhouse gases from the atmosphere in order to avoid the most dramatic impacts of climate change. Then I'm sure it's easier to cut emissions today, do the job we have to do anyway, because it's going to be harder the longer we wait. Two years ago, 20,000 climate-stripping young people were out here. They demonstrated for a climate policy as monks, and that gives a tremendous hope. When renewable energy becomes cheaper than fossil energy, it gives hope. Evolution of technology in battery and hydrogen gives hope. In this setting, the red-green parties stand together in well over a hundred proposals and have higher ambitions than today's government. And that gives hope – hope for more climate, hope for green conversion, hope for a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3028	I want to present the second important document for the climate and for the future, which is now presented in ours, and that is the national transport plan. In many ways, everything continues as before there as well. Well then, it's positive with the continued phase-in of electric cars and elves, that's the majority here in the hall quite agreeing. But things are going too slowly, especially with regard to charging infrastructure and transition to zero-emission solutions on heavy-duty vehicles, constructions and installations. But especially in one area, in the development and selection of concepts, it's still particularly bad. To a large extent, the country is still based on the car’s premises. The worst thing is that this continues after the speedy highway councils from the Progress Party are out of the department, out of the government. It's serious, and it's sad to see. It is almost built as on autopilot and of old habit of four-field highways whether or not needed. The threshold for building four fields is set ever lower, and we have got some terrible examples in the Transport Committee lately. I can mention the E18 Dørdal-Tvedestrand. I can mention the E6 through the Gudbrand valley and in Trøndelag. Continuously, the four-field motorway is constructed before the modern two-track railway in the same corridors, at best simultaneously. The whole of the NTP and the major motorway projects we've been dealing with here in the hall have a debilitating treatment of greenhouse gas emissions by extension. There is no overall climate budget for the largest extension document in Norway, namely the national transport plan. The sea itself is revealing, disappointing and frightening. So we haven't come any further in this country than that. In those locations where testing is carried out, there are exceptions to the calculations. Among other things, we do not know what New Roads will give priority to e.g., so there is no accounting for that. After all, they control their own project priorities. Then apples and pears are compared several places. Think they can make Rogfast and Hordfast into climate-friendly projects. Is that possible? Yes, we compare zero-emission cars in the future in tunnels and over sophisticated bridges with old fossil ferries that are supposed to continue indefinitely. Then, of course, there's a strange account out there, and that's what they're using. Emissions budgets for new motorways also value emissions in terms of socio-economic benefits. But as for example: The NRK has documented in a great way, ant excavation is very underestimated and the carbon prices used in the models, ridiculously low, not least compared to our neighboring country. As you call in the woods, you get answers. So it's going to be exciting to see if the government is looking for support for the NTP at the Progress Party, or where they're going.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3039	A very central theme of today's debate is the view of the polluter-pays principle and that the price of emissions must rise. I'm glad it's a very broad consensus. All parties except two, as I understand it, agree that that principle applies and is important in this context. Then it is incredibly important to stress that there are two important things to say about such environmental and climate taxes. First of all, they work. They help to change behaviour, and thus higher charges will lead to consequences due, among other things, to: make other alternatives more reasonable. That's why it's true, because as many people have been involved, we have very little carbon budget left. We have very little time left, and it will simply be deep and fundamentally unfair if you don't increase the price of continued emissions, because really any emission is too much, and since it's impractical and impossible to stop everything, we have to give priority to the few emissions that we can still allow. Something else is unfair in real time to other people, because if no polluter pays, everyone has to pay, and also in the future because those who come after us have to pay. The second insight is that fees may be left to themselves. They may vary between cities and countries, between social groups and between industries. That's why I'm glad to see that there's a broad collection in the opposition on the left-hand side that you have to supplement the fee with far more comprehensive and ambitious measures to actually make it possible to choose greener and more sustainable and fossil-free solutions faster for everyone. Because it is much easier in some sectors where technology is mature than in sectors where technology is fresh and not put into use, or exists, but lacks infrastructure to enable it. That is why it was a very central point on the part of the Workers' Party to propose that business should be reduced and so-called climate partnerships developed, mutually binding agreements agreeing both on objectives, targets, concreteisation and annual fulfilment, and also on the measures to be taken. There may be support schemes, but there may also be infrastructure, legislative and regulatory changes, concessions. There are a number of different measures that can then be used as a basis. This could apply to many industries. This can be true of agriculture, which has many and good ideas, but which deserves support to implement them. It may not least relate to the fisheries sector, which also wants to be part of the green shift, but rightly points out that much of the technology to which it refers is not mature here and now and that they therefore need help to do so. So the fee plus concrete measures are far better for effective and fair migration than the fee alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3052	The centre party is aware that greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease. It has to happen in a way that doesn't move jobs and value creation out of the country, and it has to happen in a way that doesn't increase the social differences in the country. When you look at the setting, there are two things the Center Party can contribute to the climate debate. One is concrete political proposals that work, and the other is something that is intrusive: a good dose of common sense. When a person listens to this discussion, I have to say that part of what's going on is weird, sad, and funny. Governments have achieved very little of the policy put forward. There are five proposals with a plurality at the back, in addition to what is attached to the Minutes. One should return to the Minister of Agriculture Dale and the agricultural message in spring 2017 to find a government council that has received less support than we see today. It is important, therefore, that Parliamentary leader in the Central Party, Marit Arnstad, also pointed out that the inclusion of the Protocol does not mean that there is a thumb up from the Stortinget. And that means that when e.g. The agricultural negotiations are about to begin, so we don't want references to Storing Message No. 13 and the introduction of either fees or conversion of additional grounds in that message. You can't do it that way. The other thing that is strange, sad and polite is to have a case spokesman who owes it to the members of the committee that they delivered things before the deadline, i.e. that they delivered too close up to the deadline. I believe the case-speaker must read Section 24 of the Rules of Procedure. All the more comical when we have a committee leader in the Energy and Environment Committee who makes a point from the spokesperson of who was the case spokesman and how it happened in the Committee. Then I think the focus is really, really bad out there. And it was just sad when we heard the line Right had against the Central Party's environmental figures, Sandra Borch. It was ten seconds of pre-dumb rule technique. That's not good. The contents of this case are bloody serious. And it is serious when one says to the fishing industry that we should compare the ten- or twenty-double CO 2 charges to what was true when SV had the finance minister. It's serious. One would like to find that one has built a pair of scarves, but most fishermen along the coast cannot afford and afford to buy a new boat just because it becomes a couple of dollars more expensive to fuel. This will have consequences. This will have consequences for the fisheries policy. This will have an impact on coastal settlements. And there won't be one gram less CO 2 emissions if boats go to Denmark to fill fuel versus fill it in Norway. I also hope that the Centre Party will contribute concrete proposals and common sense in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3077	It must be important to cut both greenhouse gas emissions and create jobs. The politics of the Workers' Party do both. We have an offensive climate policy that also helps to strengthen districts. Ensuring activity and settlement across the coast is an important objective of the Workers' Party. We know that the fishing industry is a particularly vulnerable industry when it comes to increasing the CO 2 tax. There are no good emission-free alternatives to today's fuel. It's a fact you can relate to or not. Then one cannot unilaterally increase a fee without also ensuring compensation. That is what has been done with the blessing of the Progress Party also in the State budget, removing the compensation scheme as part of the agreement with the fishing industry when the CO 2 tax was introduced. Fee is not the target. Bringing emissions down is the goal. You cannot take a bus as an alternative to a car if there is no bus to take. And that's what's the alternative to the fishing industry – you can't make the fishing fleet green if you don't have alternatives. It is then necessary to have the means to create these alternatives. There are solutions that this government does not have. Having dialogue is a wise thing. Having a dialogue with business in reducing greenhouse gas emissions is important: how can you facilitate, how can you ensure a suitable solution for each industry? That job has not been done either by the government or by the government parties in Stortinget. I'm surprised at that job, it's not that good of a job, it's done with creating a climate deal. It's shocking, really. This work is just as bad for the fishing industry as it is working on the quota notification. If you are to stand here as a position and demand a climate settlement, you are free to take the initiative in a climate settlement, try to bring about a climate settlement. So you haven't done that. The Labour Party has listened. The fishing team said: «The working party has understood our message when they signal adjustments instead of unilaterally increasing the CO 2 tax, as the government will do.» That was the statement by the Fiskerlag. But there's a solution, and it's called choice. The Workers' Party can guarantee that we will address the solutions we have for a good climate policy, which helps cut emissions, but also creates jobs, after the autumn elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3101	The government's climate plan has created a lot of debate this winter and spring, and I am sure that climate policy will be discussed thoroughly both during the spring and summer, until the elections and after this treatment. We as society are facing some major challenges in the time to come. Climate change is one of those challenges. But it seems in this debate that some people think Norway has its own atmosphere, and that 1 tonne of CO 2 emissions in Denmark, Romania or China are not as much as 1 tonne of CO 2 emissions in Norway. Unfortunately, many forget in the Norwegian climate debate. In the spontaneous question hour yesterday, the Progress Party raised the issue of carbon leakage, which everyone says they don't want, but as most people, except the Advance Party, seem to accept. This is because a majority in this Chamber want to tax Norwegian business so heavily that they shut down and then import the same products from China, leading to fewer jobs, less tax money and higher greenhouse gas emissions. We heard yesterday the example from Figjo porcelain factory, which is going to wear. If they have to close down, it looks tragically good on the Norwegian climate accounting. It stimulates increased production in China, but it is obviously not good for Norwegian business. Yesterday we also heard the example of fishermen on Sørland as the government parties, Right, Left and Christian People's Party, want to force shuttle traffic across Skagerrak to bulge diesel in Denmark. Thus, fishermen have to travel to Denmark to feed in Norway. It's going to look good for the Norwegian climate accounting, but the CO 2 is emitted into the same atmosphere. When I talk to the industry and with shrimp fishermen in South Africa, I know that this is an industry that does not tolerate such a high CO 2 tax as it is added to. For Lennart Danielsen, a shrimp fisherman from Mandal, it means an increase of 800,000 kroner on his boat in 2025, according to him. The average excess of a fishing boat in South Africa is NOK 300000. But what about all those who can't go to Denmark and drink? Most people can't do that. They just have to pinch again and squeeze out, according to a majority in this room. State Council Rotevatn and the government refer to technology that does not exist. Hydrogen, bio, gas and batteries are words that are sung in climatic tones, but there is not an electric fishing boat with battery capacity that lasts long enough, which can replace what is used today. It is going to mean long-distance food from the South China Sea, where no one has heard about the CO 2 tax, while in Norway we have thousands of kilometres of coastline and a food dish just outside the door that is not used because we have taxed the industry out of the country. The Chinese can laugh all the way to the bank with Norway's climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3131	Thank you for a good debate so far. I was going to answer a couple of questions and comments. The representative of Navarsete wondered why Enova has cut in support of “Battery in a Vessel”. That's a good question, and the answer is a very good climate news. It is simply that there are record numbers searching for this scheme, and the costs of technology have fallen. That's good, and it brings me to the post from the representative Saudland, who says that this is technology that doesn't exist. This is technology installed on fishing vessels and boats on running bands through, among other things. the arrangement. So the enormous pessimism that many from the opposition here express on behalf of the fishing industry and other shipping, is simply not in line with reality. The switch is in progress, and Norway is at the forefront. The representative, Barth Eide, says that there is agreement on the polluter pays principle because it works. I agree with Mr Eide. That's good. But then the question is: why is it that the representative Barth Eide and the Labour Party will make exceptions to the principle of the largest point emissions in the non-quota sector, namely waste incineration? I found that hard to understand. SV's stoppage says aviation is a climate change response. I'm sure you'll agree with that. Aviation has emissions of 1.2 million tonnes per year. Waste incineration has 0.9. Why, then, will SV give those who release 0.9, fully exempt from CO 2 tax, while they agree with the government that those who release 1.2 will have NOK 2000 in CO 2 tax? The polluter pays principle is also important for the largest emission sources. I would then like to take advantage of the opportunity to pay tribute to the Green Party, which I have understood during the day through the media, and no longer agree with SV and the Labour Party that one should be exempt from the CO 2 tax there. Then, in the spirit of everyone who wants broad agreement here, I would like to encourage the Workers' Party and SV, who say they are to increase CO 2 taxes, to join the Green Party and the Government Party and say yes, even the largest emission sources have to pay CO 2 tax – not because they have to pay to pay, but because there is technology here: carbon capture and storage. We can roll this out at various incineration plants – in Oslo, in Bergen and in Trondheim. However, if the alternative to the expensive investment is that it should be free to release greenhouse gases, it is difficult to get wages in that type of investment. When people think that it's recycled too little plastic because it's so cheap to burn him -- and I can agree on that -- why should one make it even cheaper to burn him by wiping out the CO 2 tax that the Stortinget introduced this year? Letting the polluter pay, as Barth Eide said, works. This means that it pays off with green solutions, it pays off with recycling, and a fall in greenhouse gas emissions. I hope that others in the opposition will join the Greens and turn around and support the government party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3162	The Labour Party will have a socially and geographically fair climate policy. We will make it easier for ordinary people and vulnerable industries to switch to climate-friendly solutions. The transport sector accounts for one third of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and road traffic accounts for more than half of these. For years, we have had targets on the transport of goods from road to sea and rail, but the measures that need to be taken are down-priority. In the current national transport plan, freight to rail and sea are the losers, including the aid schemes. We must increase efforts and at the same time give the county councils economic space for the green shift, more to research and pilot projects. Norway is a nation. We can do this, and we have a significant potential in the export of competence and climate-friendly technology, such as boat construction, infrastructure and charging technologies. On the way, we have prioritised advantages for an electric car, but have been very pending on the necessary infrastructure. The Workers' Party agrees that charging infrastructure should be based on commercial profitability, but development aid must be granted where it is not commercially viable. We must also bear in mind the costs of operating and maintaining the stations, and not least standardisation. We have to make it easier for people to make climate-friendly choices. We do not have an overview of regional needs for the future of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. Therefore, the Workers' Party will have a comprehensive plan for Norwegian hydropower, wind power and other energy expansions that require concession. We will investigate a national transport plan for electrification of the transport sector with targeted instruments that contribute to predictability and effective emission reduction. Finally, an example: it is quite incredible that the Tronder and Meråker tracks are still running on diesel, and that one, instead of electrifying the entire route, as the Stortinget decided in 2013, buys new bimodal trains that are 40 pst. more expensive than electric trains and significantly heavier. An electrification of the Trønderbanen would have been a solid contribution to the climate accounts for Trøndelag, a low-hanging fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3175	This is an interesting debate. In the debate, many call for a climate settlement and refer to the 2012 climate settlement. It is important to remember that, in 2012, the climate agreement was stepped up at Stortinget, but it was not close to having a list of measures that were proportionate to the objectives and the emission reductions we were to have in 2020 – on the contrary. When I arrived at the Stortinget in 2013 and entered the Energy and Environment Committee, everything we spent time on was how to strengthen our efforts to have the opportunity to achieve the 2020 target. We've done that by sticking to the electric car benefits. After the climate agreement, they were to be closed after 50,000 cars or in 2015. They have been continued and reinforced – vans are an entirely new objective in the national transport plan. We have both increased the CO 2 tax and extended it. We electrified – we decided that Utsira would be electrified. There are important decisions to achieve the objectives. We've reinforced Enova, reinforced public transport and, not least, demanded biofuels, so in 2020 we had 20 pst. blending biofuels, which have been controversial on the Storting but are absolutely necessary to achieve the 2020 target. Now we see, when we see the numbers, if we get down to 48.7 million tons, as it was decided in 2012 that we should now. The big difference today is that now we have a plan that relates to the targets notified to the UN, 50–55 million tonnes reduction by 2030 together with the EU, on the road to a target of 90–95 pst. reduction in 2050 – a much tougher target than the EU’s net zero target in 2050. If we go down there, it's just the livestock again. We have to stop all fossil fuels. And we have set up a binding agreement with the EU also for the non-quota sector, where we are going to overfill what is the obligation, and go far beyond 45 pst. reduction. This plan shows us how to get there. The most important thing that many people are discussing is that we are pricing emissions. NOK 2 000 of the CO 2 tax in 2030 is predictable for industry and, in particular, for those who are going to enter and compete – the new business community, which is also going to address this issue. We follow it up with just the sale of electric cars in 2025, the other heavy transport objectives that are there, the Green Maritime Programme, the agreement with agriculture – area by area. We have measures both in the quota sector and in the petroleum sector and industry to reduce emissions there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3192	I would like to make a small explanation of vote. We have, as the Council of State had in mind, come to the conclusion that we are voting against the Committee's recommendation for CIX – that is 109 – to move the tax on waste incineration to earlier in the value chain. I would also like to stress that we are still in favour of an increased plastic charge. The point is that we need to increase resource taxes so that we get more innovation and more resource productivity out of it. In other words: plastic tax – yes, thanks; combustion tax – yes, thanks; export tax – yes, and like export bans. Ideally, this should also be balanced against reduced e.g.. employers’ fees – or with increased subsidies for conversion, electrification and non-fossilisation – and, in the case of coastal fishing fleets, which the Progress Party and the Centre are now pushing ahead as an excuse for not supporting powerful actions and technological development. In other words, in the balance sheet and the balance sheet, whether to put it late in the value chain with a combustion charge, or early in the value chain as a plastic charge – this has unfortunately become either – or not a both – and – we have stated that we prefer an increased combustion charge. That's why we changed our position today. Finally, I would also like to mention that we are voting in favour of proposal No. 3, on electrification strategy. Here we had not landed any position before. So I would like to stress that we think it is deeply regrettable that the government has failed to involve the committee and to put in place a commitment settlement much earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3204	The climate debate is a gift package for all socialists. The sociologists have replaced their ideological project because they have learned that socialism does not work. Or as Margaret Thatcher so strikingly said it: The problem with socialism is that you possibly run out of other people's money. The same thing will happen to the green revolution. The socialists have hidden the red color and replaced it with a revolutionary green color. The bigger the social revolution, the better. They justify dramatic interventions in people's everyday lives and ignore that people are unique individuals who want personal freedom. They do not accept that people can make wise decisions for their own lives. People want a good community, they don't want to pollute, and they want to remove the plastic in the sea. Green Revolutionary seeks power to govern the privacy of people under the cover of saving the globe. Green revolutionaries make people's lives a little more expensive and a little bit more demanding every day. They tell the Norwegian people that they should have a bad conscience, and that they should be ashamed to live normal lives. Green revolutionaries use their political mandate to control people. Red Revolutionaries told the people that the only way to a fair society was a global settlement that eliminated everyone with political and economic power. The proletariat was to unite and take over. As the Red Revolutionaries also tell the Greens that the power structure needs to change – and it is also global. Supply and demand, which gives us all more well-being and more economic freedom, will be replaced by public directives, directives, restrictions and bans. Their ideologists will tax those who create values, and try to imagine that value creation is what is adopted in public offices. What all of the previous thought was natural variations in the weather no longer exist. The weather has become man's work. The weather is getting wilder and warmer. The ice will melt, and the sea will rise – and it is our fault. It's because you and I are hunting for a higher economic standard of living. We want to use and throw, we want to travel to places and cabins in the country and abroad. We should all be ashamed. We're destroying the globe. Our children and grandchildren will never forgive us. Alternative voices are not allowed. The debate is over. Science has concluded. The revolutionary doomsday prophets have won. The Earth sings in the last verse. Well, I'm a chain. In the last year, many have experienced that the Korona Police have been on guard. Monitoring has been introduced, and indication has become common – for the best of all, of course. Climate police are going to be much more extensive. Any person carrying out an activity that emits greenhouse gases will be quickly identified and excluded from the good company. In the future, we will experience a witch hunt on those who are not on the politically correct side, and the media will lead. They've already begun. People will have to go canoeing and complain. Why use a polluting suspension engine when there are veins?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3219	The main means for the government in this plan is to triple the CO 2 tax. I read that there is a lot of support for it in this Chamber, for the Workers' Party, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens clearly write that they want it to at least up to NOK 2 000 by 2030. What we are dealing with today will have consequences for ordinary businesses and ordinary people and their jobs. Recently I visited Figjo porcelain factory, which is a company on the border between Sandnes and Gésdal. Until now, they've been a little bit under 100 employees, but they've had to go to the heavy step of reducing by about a third because of the coronary apathy. But what Figjo porcelain factory said in the meeting with me was that what they feared most was the planned increase in the CO 2 tax. Then some bells should be ringing at the bulk of the pot. They should ask themselves, what are we doing? In a few years, the porcelain factory will go from paying zero kroner in a fee to 2.8 million. NOK 2030. There is a lot for a company that is already competing in an international market and that is in the top level of price. One might ask if competitors abroad are not afraid of this CO 2 tax that is needed to comply with the Paris Agreement. No, in the rest of Europe, competitors are exempt because there are no alternative production methods for porcelain factories. Yesterday, the Council of State said in question to the representative of Halleland about exactly this specific matter, that they have to change the production, is therefore not possible. They must continue to produce as before, but now with a tax that will continue to increase. Thus, the tax will have nothing to say about reducing emissions – only increasing the cost level and risk of reducing jobs. Why is it that Norway is always best placed to introduce directives and requirements from the EU and the EEA, but when there is talk of an enterprise being exempted from such a charge, as competing enterprises have in the rest of the EEA, it is suddenly not possible? Then we're no longer going to be the best in the class, because it can destroy the sense of community by being on a duel where everyone has to cut emissions. That's what it's all about, and that's what was the answer to Rotevatn in a look-up in Nettavisen – that everyone had to contribute to the hard work. So although this china plant grip will not lead to a reduction in emissions, they must nevertheless be charged. The only way they can reduce emissions is either by cutting or reducing production. This is how Norway becomes a little poorer, and we are at risk of losing jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3241	Norway will achieve the climate objectives — and how? The good news is that Norway is at the forefront of making all modes of transport climate friendly. Here, the Left has had great influence for many years through government participation. We got to the first electric car benefits 20 years ago, when we were responsible for the Ministry of Transport, and we still have the investment. Now more than half of the new cars are emission-free. Few countries have a better policy for non-emission vehicles than Norway. In Norway, not only electric cars free of charge, but also biogas and hydrogen solutions for better vehicles and boats. Installation machinery, trucks, ferries, speedboats and ships may become, and shall become, climate friendly. Only in this way can we achieve the climate goals. There are clear measures in the climate communication. The fact that Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions have fallen in recent years is clear evidence that climate policy is working. Nevertheless, the Vice-President of the Central Party, Ola Borten Moe, wants new direction changes in climate policy in an article in the Mid-Norwegian debate. For example, he wants to. that we are going to buy foreign climate quotas instead of investing in Norwegian climate action. The left believes that this is a wrong solution both to reduce our emissions and to restore Norwegian working life for the future. Is Ola Borten Moe in the process of this matter of the Center Party, or is it actually what you have in the sleeve in saying that we are going to achieve our climate goals? So over to waste incineration. I hear that the Green Party has turned around a little now – it is allowed to keep turning around, it is not yet voting – in terms of getting a tax on incineration. In Trondheim we have a combustion plant that is a point emission – between 20 and 25 pst. of all CO 2 emitted in Trondheim is from this installation. I do not hear that the rapporteur and the rapporteur, who are from the Labour Party and SV respectively in Trondheim, have some very clear views that the combustion plant should reduce its emissions. It is a local initiative that should have been taken when sitting in such positions. But they are not allowed to participate in such a bet either nationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3253	Greenhouse gas emissions are the biggest challenge facing the world, and agriculture will have a key role to play in solving the problem. The industry has understood this for the longest time, and in 2019 agriculture was the very first industry to enter into a binding agreement with the government on greenhouse gas emission cuts. We are very impressed with a forward-looking agriculture that has put the climate and environment at the top of the agenda in recent years, among other things. by establishing a separate climate plan on how to reduce emissions without compromising food production. For the government, it became quite natural to build on the agreement between the country and agriculture in the further climate work in agriculture, where ambitious targets have been set. That being said, the main task of agriculture is to produce food. Emissions from agriculture are unlikely to be fully eliminated, but Norwegian agriculture will produce demand for it, in a climate-smart and sustainable way. Several farmers will probably use the climate calculator, which gives the farmer an overview of the climate emissions on their own farm, and of how it can be cut. The effort on forestry will contribute to a high carbon content. Today, the forest accounts for about half of the annual greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and the potential for more binding through active forestry is central to the green shift. Here, WoodWorks’ clustering effort shows the way through the work of increasing the use of wood and fibre. In fact, fossil resources can be widely replaced by wood. We're also going to work on food waste. Throwing food is a waste that is bad for the climate. Here, both industry, shops, the state and not least we as consumers must take responsibility. This is also part of the climate agreement with agriculture. Agriculture is always going to produce the consumer demand that we have the prerequisites for producing in Norway. This also applies when the consumption has to change. It's also a goal that we should be able to produce more of what we eat of fruit and green ourselves. We look forward to monitoring agricultural climate work, which is well under way, and are confident of good progress in the future. For there is something that the Norwegian farmer is concerned about, it is to ensure the climate, so as to ensure his own crop against climate damage, whether it be flooding or drought.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3268	In the summer of 2018, just three years ago, the drought crisis struck Norway, and the Workers' Party wanted an honest debate on how to improve food production and agriculture, to bind more carbon and cut emissions while strengthening the preparedness and security of our country's people. It's said that after a hundred years all things are forgotten. But with the right-hand government it only went on one rainy day, so the whole issue was forgotten. In this Chamber, the whole debate was neglected, just as we unfortunately see today that the Minister of Agriculture and Food, from the Christian People's Party, is completely absent – again, in one of the most important debates for the future on how to create security for people in a way that is socially fair, that binds more carbon, and that gives the whole population our security for enough food. Over the last few years, we have been given very worrying examples of how much is going on both for people and for nature when agricultural policy and food production are taking off. In the very good documentary series UXA, from Thomas Seltzer, which I recommend everyone to see if you haven't already seen it, he shows how to in the Midwest – there, among other things. Our ancestors established — today, due to faulty food and agricultural policies. Local communities have been destroyed because they have been based on predatory production that is hard on both people and nature. That's the kind of development we don't have to see for our own food production. In this case, we actually have an opportunity to build on forward-looking policies and the best of our traditions of food culture in Norway. Having the cow on the cetra or sheep on the mountain is part of the solution for using resources that are otherwise standing unused and rotting. So when Erna Solberg to the VG has said that it's a problem that kua jumps too much, it testifies to a prime minister who doesn't really fit in. The problem is not that a cow is a cow. The challenge is to improve the food production we have, and use more of the local, beautiful natural resources that we are rich in along fjords and mountains. So I want to rewrite a statement today. It is said that while the grass grows, the cow dies. The truth is that while the local grass rots, the carbon goes into the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3279	I started at the Central Party, for the representative Pollestad said that I took up the fact that it was difficult for the Red-Greens to agree on the case rapporteur when, after all, they have a majority in the Committee. I think it should be the simplest thing in the world to agree on when you have a majority, but when you don't want to, it's another thing. The central party has been about us dealing with the Paris obligation, we're going to cut emissions. But then comes this practical, ground level, that you travel around and drink coffee with people and listen to people – this shouldn't cost anything. How to cut emissions without costing anything, it's really a big mystery. This will cost you. But in the case of a fee increase for CO 2, we say that it should be returned, that's the conversion that has to cost. Agriculture has written an agreement entirely on a voluntary basis with the country to cut emissions. There are great opportunities in agriculture related to electrification and precision farming – there are robots, and there are electric dolls, there are suns on the roof, there are many opportunities in agriculture that allow us to also use less fertilizers and make better use of bioresources. It's going to cost you to develop this, and we also have to be involved. The question is how to do that. Because it seems that it is not going to cost anyone anything to take this conversion. Then I have to ask the question: is there oil to finance it? The Central Party has been the most offensive in terms of providing support to the oil and gas sectors, extending, pumping more and financing more. It's biting your tail's sail, or shooting itself in the foot. The working party says they are for the CO 2 tax, but it is a challenge when there are so many exceptions. Cecilie Myrseth was up in the pulpit and said that the fishing fleet must be exempted – there are other industries that must also be exempted, deferrals. It is a challenge if you are not able to collect the money to be spent on precisely that change – the fuel tax, to which there is uncertainty – and that is why there are some challenges also for the Workers' Party, who want to use funds, partnerships, which we do not know what gives concretely. Upon this, the representative Sandtrøen was up in the pulpit and talked about the summer of 2018. Yeah, it actually cost us 2 billion. kr, and that arranged the Stortinget, we paid for it. That's the challenge we're facing here, that it's a green sector that lives on green carbon, which is totally dependent on the climate to work, and up here it's that the Central Party's lack of willingness to contribute becomes a little bit special: it's not going to cost anything. It costs a lot already.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3300	It looks like we're approaching the end. In this regard, I would like to thank you for the debate so far, but I cannot guarantee that I will not draw back when I see who is after me on the list of speakers. That is something that has been said in the course of the debate that cannot be undisputed. One is this that has to do with conciliation. During the examination of this climate plan, the NRC had a case on how the mood was in the committee. Then I was criticized for not initiating any conversations. That matter came after I had talked to all the parties in the committee and I quickly realized that here was the disagreement, among other things. on the red-green side too large, and of course, as I also said to the NRK, that it was not relevant to negotiate the CO 2 fee, nor with the Progress Party. Then we had to have a regular committee discussion of the matter. But what did the red-green parties say in that case? It says, ‘Barth Eide does not respond directly to the existence of a common plan among potential future government partners’, i.e. on the red-green side. At the bottom of the case, the representative Lars Haltbrecken rejects the fact that there is such a thing. He says, "There is no common plan." Then he invites the government parties and other red-greens to go into what is SV's own climate plan. What was necessary in order to achieve a good result was an alternating majority for the matter in the communication. We do, and that is going to be the basis of the climate policy pursued over the next ten years, unless a future government or a future growth would decide for something completely different, and it is hoped that they will not. The representative, Marit Arnstad, also said in the evening post that it was not appropriate to negotiate a CO 2 fee agreement with the Workers' Party. So putting the blame on the government parties because there's not a deal where all the parties agree, is just a mess. The red-green parties couldn't even collect themselves. And then they talk about how many suggestions they agree on in the setting. That is what I see, even more than 100 proposals they do not agree on. And they do not agree on the CO 2 tax and a number of other measures. But what we see is that by an alternating majority, there is agreement on all the over 100 proposals contained in the government's climate plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3320	I was actually going to talk a little bit about a global perspective, but I feel like I have to sign out the last two posts, which I thought were a little strange, perhaps especially that of the committee leader, Mr. Kjeseth, who seemed to criticize the opposition on the left for not having forced a case rapporteur on the left. I do not know if it is a mistrust of the person who became the case rapporteur, i.e. to Heggelund, but we therefore voted in favour of him. Because it's the way in our committee that we always have a majority, every day for four years, we've had a majority, so we could have all the file rapporteurs. But there's some kind of hump in Stortinget about agreeing to share it, a little between the blocks, a little bit out of interest and a little bit of what goes on. So it was a thoughtful assessment we made when Stefan Heggelund was elected case rapporteur, although of course we could use the majority to choose another. When it comes from the committee chairman himself, who presumptuously is on the same side as Heggelund, I think it's a little strange, but they get to figure it out between. But I want to underline something that is more important – I am talking for the Workers' Party, but I was just confirmed that this can definitely also be said for our friends in SV – and that is that we were ready for discussions about reconciliation all the time. We've made it clear. We didn't wait for other parties on the red-green side to get a wide deal. We would have done that if we were invited to it, and then the negotiations would show whether it was true. And to the claim that there is a broad disagreement on our side: it's perfectly open and clear in the hall that there is disagreement between the Center Party on one side and us on the very level of fees. Moreover, there is a great deal of consensus, including on the fundamental principle that I mentioned in my previous speech, that the levy alone can create geographical, social and industry bias, and that the levy combined with a number of positive measures that accelerate conversion to new technology can have far more effective but also far more fair consequences. I believe that this is in fact a main difference between the right side and the left side, also between the parts that are agreed today, and confirm today that we are going to have a steady increase in the CO 2 tax because the polluter has to pay. My second point, which I'm going to say in half a minute, is that we have to include in this debate that there is a violent development in the whole world, not least in neighbouring countries. What is now happening in the EU's green giving, what is happening in the United States of Biden, and what is now becoming too powerful in Asia, makes it a technological development that is much faster than we've been used to, makes old solutions completely obsolete and forces us to seize the new opportunities. This means that we, who say we have a bad time, not only have a bad time with regard to the big and most important issue, namely the climate crisis, but we also have little time to rig Norway so that we can continue to create values and have jobs in a greener future. If we don't do that, we'll fall off. The risk is not now that Norway is going too far ahead, the risk is that we are going behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3332	The most striking thing about this debate is how self-satisfied the government parties are, and I believe that after eight years with this government there is no reason for them to be so self-satisfied. In the climate matter, they have barely delivered things to Stortinget. International assistance has been through massive cuts over eight years. Although Ketil Kjeseth says they've reached the climate agreement for 2020, the government's figures and what they report to the Stortinget say, something else. They say they have the most ambitious goals. Well, for the first time, we don't have a national measure of where Norway is going to be. They do not create climate budgets when they present government budgets. It is at all a government that is very little willing to listen. I know the government's traveling a little bit now, but they have Teams. We have other ways to meet. I believe that the government in this matter shows that they are not willing to listen. One thing is that they don't listen to us in the opposition, but they don't listen to the trade movement, which requires social justice. They do not listen to business, which requires predictability. They do not listen to agriculture, to the fishing industry or to the municipalities. They don't listen to the climate-stripping young people who were out here two years ago, their demands have not been heard. The government just listens to itself. They've barely been willing to move a comma out of what they put out. So they're going to vote down about 500 proposals, and they're not going to say that any of them have anything to do with it. I don't believe it. I think they think that many of those proposals are good, at least I hope so, but I think they've decided that they had to go against everything. I would say that is a little daring of a historically weak minority government and a climate minister who comes from a party that wakes up around 2 pst. on polls. But I think it's because they've had such a complicated relationship with the Progress Party, and then they've guessed that they didn't get a majority against themselves, because the Progress Party is obviously not a favorite climate partner for us on the red-green side. The Advance Party is the preferred partner of Stefan Heggelund, Sveinung Rotevatn, Lene Westgaard-Halle – they are the ones who have chosen the Advance Party. When we heard the post of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, I think we all understand why we in the Workers' Party have not chosen them. A few comments on what has been attacked: The Chairman of the Committee thought that the left side should now push through all cases as the case-rapporteur. We could also press through a committee leader – we have a majority in the committee – if that is how he believes the Storting should work. But that's how we tend to distribute things a little between us. Lene Westgaard-Halle believed that the Workers' Party was diesel populists. I guess it was because of the Workers' Party's proposal on how to have different prices in District Norway. When the Workers' Party said so, Stefan Heggelund welcomed him. That was the answer from the Right to what was played out from the Workers' Party. Stefan Heggelund also believed that the opposition was too slow to comment, which was his argument that we did not get a settlement. Finally, I believe that this is not a happy day. There is a lost opportunity. We don't get predictability. We're not getting any new initiatives. We hadn't been able to agree on everything, but we could make some basic planks. I'm afraid we won't.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3345	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3350	First of all, I would like to sincerely thank Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who bravely targets all the darkest thought hooks on the right, where distorted conspiracies get to multiply uninhibited in incestuous self-infatuation. It's good that we have those who vent such a good and increase diversity. It is also good that the Progress Party and the Center Party reveal themselves as deeply anti-innovation and anti-conversion, because they betray what is happening in today's business by being conservative. What's Powerhouse got? What is it Bright House, Tomra, Elkem Solar, Stormberg, Cenate, Summa Equity, NorSun, Evoy, Fjong and Tise, ZAPTEC, FUSen, Tibber, Rainpower, eSmart, EnergyNest, Fred? Olsen, Nordic Wind Power, Cadel, Moelven, Road Cover, IKEA, Lights, Morrow Batteries, FREY, Entra, Aker BioMarine, Otovo and Keep-it have understood? Well, all of these Nordic innovative companies realize that climate is business. To Slagsvold Vedum: All over Norway the green values create.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3356	A review melody in the debate from at least part of the party is that there are not enough ambitions in the climate message, it's not concrete enough, there's not enough action, and it doesn't support the Stortinget. But it's just being thrown out as statements. No one is actually justifying it properly, or seeing what the message is about, or what the Storing decides. So let's try that out. The objective of the non-quota sector is to reduce emissions by 45 pst. in Norway by 2030. That means 16.6 million tons. In the message we outline a series of actions that can be grouped together: public purchases, buses, ferries and speedboats, 3 million tons, use of biofuels in installations and shipping etc., 5.5 million tons, cuts in agriculture, 4 million tons, and what most people have debated, increases CO 2 tax, 7.5 million tons. No one in the pulpit has asked questions about these bills, no one has doubted that this will lead to the kind of cuts that the government has calculated, and no one who makes a multiple has opposed the proposals. And the best thing is that it doesn't give you 16.6 million tons, it gives you 20 million tons. So standing here saying that one will not achieve the goal of the plan, that we do not have enough action, and that we do not have support, is simply not right – unless someone can come up and explain why that is not true. I haven't heard that yet. Then it must be said that there are some uncertainties here. But a lot of this is certain, for public purchasing requirements and increased use of biofuels the government implements by regulation, and we'll do that. We need to engage in dialogue with agriculture in the agricultural sector. We cannot guarantee everything that comes out of agricultural negotiations, but it becomes important. I think the Storting agrees that this is how one should stick to agriculture. The CO 2 tax is of course a budgetary issue, and it will have to come back to the Storting regardless of what one decides here today. But the fact that a broad number of people support the long-term goal is at least important. Then, unfortunately, there is considerable uncertainty that a multiple here doesn't want the polluters to pay, when they drop out the most CO 2 in the non-quota sector, and that applies to the waste incineration plants. I have challenged the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party whether they should not soon join the Green Party in their pre-service reverse operation, where they have agreed that the United Nations pays principle should also apply to the largest emissions. We are all certain that we need to bring in new and profitable environmental technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, and we need to increase the recycling rate. Then it can't cost NOK 0 to continue to pollute. But with these leftovers and disagreements aside: there's a wide variety of numbers that are some both about goals, about the most important tools, and that this is going to work. Of course, then, as the Council of State responsible, I interpret it as enabling the government to implement that policy, by setting new supply requirements, by changing the integration requirements for biofuels, by negotiating with agriculture, and by providing ambitious government budgets for further climate change. The government will do so, and there are many good reasons why this government should be able to renew its confidence in the autumn elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3382	I noticed that the chairman of the committee, Mr. Kjeseth, was on the speaker's chair here instead and talked with a little bit of contempt in his voice about those who have traveled around the country drinking coffee with people. That's perhaps just what's a bit of the problem of climate policy today, that one has a top-down attitude instead of one listening to people, thinking that one should have a climate policy where one takes people seriously, where one takes the practical everyday life in which people live, over itself, and where one also shows the willingness to take on good, concrete suggestions for actions that actually work in the real world, instead of having a theoretical approach based on their own thoughts in their own minds. To the last time the Council of State took up Rotevatn with regard to the combustion tax on waste: it is just an example of how bad it carries when the only goal you have in your head is that you have to have increased taxes, instead of looking at what is important. It is a policy that contributes to a reduction in emissions and, in addition, to the creation of value and jobs in Norway. It helps little to establish an incineration tax on waste in Norway when the only effect it has is that one exports more waste to the rest of the world, which is what could be a major consequence of that charge. Fortunately, the Central Party has got other parties to say that yes, we can participate in introducing a fee, but it has to happen at another point in the process where one actually makes a choice in terms of material choices, and not where the fee is currently proposed by the government. So to what goes on for the polluter to pay. Polluter pays have been an important principle in Norway for decades. But what the government is now trying to apply is to have a flat CO 2 tax for all sectors, which will also triple. It is clearly contrary to the tradition we have had in Norway that we should have a differentiated policy adapted to different industries, adapted to different regions, adapted to pay taxes according to their ability – based on who has the opportunity to adapt to the different taxes and charges that we have in Norway. That's why, as we have tradition, we have a high CO 2 charge on the base of the oil companies, which are resource-intensive companies, who have the ability to convert and who have done so, but one does not have the same charge for the fisherman or for the one who drives his old diesel car to the store. We must have a policy adapted to the country in which we live, and not such a remote policy as, among other things. The representative, Mr Kjeseth, called for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3399	On March 9, 2000, I was here in Stortinget. Then I stood up at the gallery and then Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik refused to let the pollution comrades in the Right and the Workers' Party force through the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. The Christian People's Party and Left then entered Norwegian environmental history in gold. Unfortunately, much of this font has faded. For where are the former environmental parties Christian People's Party and the Left today when SV promotes binding proposals to open up zero-emission zones, obliging public purchasing of zero-emission cars, and binding proposals on zero-emission public transport? Yes, they're against it. They are obviously terrified of their own beautiful goals and vague promises. The government's climate plan is full of beautiful goals and vague promises. But big words and festivities have never cut the emissions. Only concrete commitments and actions have been made. It is then serious that the Left and the Government parties vote against all our proposals, which translate beautiful goals and vague promises into concrete, binding action. So the Minister of Climate and Environment is attacking us for wanting to impose an environmental tax on the garbage producers rather than on those who handle the garbage. We're being attacked to want to reduce the amount of garbage. But what we're doing is completely in line with what Left's Ketil Kjenseth wrote a few years ago on Narningspolitik.no. Then he wrote: ‘In 2010, we scrapped the old registration fee in Norway. It was laid in the combustion plants, but it only hurt worse. It contributed to increased exports of waste to Sweden, lower profitability in the waste economy in Norway, and also did not contribute to increased recycling of materials. A new levy must be imposed on waste management – not on site owners.’ Now the left has turned 180 degrees. The same thing has happened to the other right. Now the parties will contribute to increased waste export to Sweden. What makes it so environmentally friendly to export waste to Sweden over the two years since this article was written? Then the representative Gunnes, from my own constituency, comes and talks about the emissions from the combustion plant in Trondheim, which are huge emissions. Who's going to do something about these emissions? Yes, it is with our vice-president at the head. Today, the SV is proposing the introduction of CO 2 capture and storage in several waste facilities. Among them is the plant in Trondheim. What does Left do? The left vote against. Action speaks higher than words.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3418	I want to share a secret. A sustainable agricultural and food production policy is really very simple, and it is based on a very basic principle: it is that we must take on the nature we have and the country we are. And that is where there is now, in practice, a major debate in Norway on how to progress. This week we have been able to read about Sondre in Seljord. He runs a dairy farm with 15 cows. But today's policy in practice refuses to be able to develop that operation further in a sustainable way, for the message he gets if he wants to renew his use, will be that government through Innovation Norway says: different, you have to get much bigger if you're to get development funds for your garden. But then Sondre says, "I have the rags I have, I have the areas around the setas I have, and I have the bites I have." One must be based on the nature of which Sondre is a part. Sylvi Listhaug tried to reverse this through the radical centralisation policy that remains the basis for what the right-wing government is based on in agricultural policy. One of the things that has disappointed me most since I came into the Parliament on the Grand Council is that the Christian People's Party has completely abdicated in such an important political field. We had a hope that we could achieve real improvements for a sustainable food production that gives people security and work when the Christian People's Party was in a tilt position. Instead, they sold themselves into the right government on some vague thoughts of restricting women's rights to abortion, and with it they sold both the cow and the future to many gardeners around the country. There are nevertheless positive views when you look at many of the Roman numerals here. If you go in and see, there's a clear direction that will provide sustainability and security for people. Then I'll mention a concrete example on the red-green side. By using Enova as an instrument for developing Norwegian agricultural technology, we can achieve both business and sustainability. For Sondres part, an obvious possibility would be, for example: to have a newly developed milk robot that can be used both on the garden and on the setra, or to support GPS technology, which allows him to control his flock in an even better way while they are grazing. It combines the best of new technologies with the best of our traditions. We're going to see more of that off with a red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3429	Just one last thing about consensus: What was clear for the government parties was that we were not willing to negotiate the measures. We did not want a less ambitious and less offensive climate policy. If something had to be changed, there had to be proposals that showed how to cut as much by 2030 as what is in the climate plan. And as I said in my first post today, we haven't seen anything about it during the treatment of this climate plan and we haven't heard anything about it in the hall. That is the reality. That's right, we weren't willing to negotiate the measures in the climate plan. So I can't go through all of the different red-green suggestions, and I remember that it's very close to all of the red-green parts that stand together, although that's what you're trying to create an impression of. But I can take some of them and try to look at the quality of a lot of what has been delivered. For example, it is proposed that: ‘The government is asking for concrete tools for Norway’s implementation of 8 to 10 new fishing facilities by 2030.’ All right. We know what it takes to realize more capture installations. That's getting it up on a large scale. That's to make it profitable. That's why we spend 16 billion. kr in total on a CCS project. It's to get the scale up, get the cost down. So you're going to sit here, you're going to mean some red-green parts, and you're going to figure this out. That's one of the suggestions. There's no point in voting for it. We know what the answer is, and it's that we have policies to do it. Then there's the suggestion that it says: ‘The government requests the amendment of the Enova agreement so that Enova can support reductions in both allowances and non-quota emissions’.» But why on earth are we going to change the Enova agreement? Enova supports measures both in the quota and in the non-quota sector today. Then there's another one: ‘The government is asked to amend the instrument in order to adapt it to change.’ It adapts to conversion. That's one of the points of the tool. That's some of the points of how Enova works. That is one of the points of the Enova mandate and the new agreement. So it's not like that, even though you refer to so many suggestions, that the quality of what's brought in is necessarily so high. Then there is no reason to vote for them either. Then I'm happy – again – that the over 100 proposals contained in the climate plan are collectively majority for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3460	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3465	Once we have made it a debate on the case rapporteur, I am very pleased that it is Mr Stefan Heggelund who has been the case rapporteur. Of course, I worked for that, because he's from a government party. It is his job as case rapporteur and my job as committee chairman to get through the government's policy. So it was just supposed to be missing. My point is that if the opposition had been as united as they think they are, they could have used power. Politics is about power, and when they're not willing to use it, it says theirs. Then the representative of Åsmund Aukrust comes to the pulpit and says that the government has no goal and has not delivered. He has not realised that we have a climate target for 2020. 48.7 million tonnes will be brought down to 2020. It was determined in the 2012 climate agreement, so there is no need to shake your head. In 2019 we cut another 2.3 million tonnes and are at 50.3. 2020 is not reported, but everything says we're going down to 48.7, and then we're going to cut 20 million tons by 2030. That is what this plan is so concrete about. The opposition does not come up with a single concrete million tons.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3480	I notice that there is a strong effort from many here to convince that the measures proposed are working and that they will work. Then I'm more uncertain about who's trying to overinterpret. Is it itself, or is it the inhabitants of this country trying to overinterpret? The truth is that today there are many important, concrete and good climate and environmental measures that are not going to be adopted, but that should have been. Because we know that emission has to go down, and we know that we have to do it without increasing the difference. It's a demanding exercise, and it's one of the things that very many places, both in Norway and in the rest of the world, create conflict in climate change. One of the clear examples internationally is the yellow vests in France, which started as a protest against increased fuel charges. So let's think about it a little bit. What triggered it? Well, one felt that ordinary people were sitting around with the bill to cut emissions, while those who had the most of them could continue to live just as they did, and pay off. There is no way we can continue. There is no way to create legitimacy for climate action. It's not a way that creates legitimacy to actually do something with the increasing emissions. At the same time, we have seen climate-stripping young people who are demanding action and various movements to be united. How should we do that? Well, by saying that one should compensate for, for example, increase CO 2 fee. One of the suggestions from SV, which unfortunately doesn't seem to be getting multiples, is that one should have a green people's bonus, that one pays in CO 2 tax, should come back to people with low and medium income. Let me do a calculation: if we increase the CO 2 charge by 50 pst. In 2021, the state will raise 3,66 billion dollars. kr. The money can be distributed to anyone over the age of 17 who is looking at 500,000 dollars or less. Each person would then receive a payment of NOK 1270 for this year. These are the numbers that want to change, but it may be a contribution to securing legitimacy, namely that those who have the least experience that they are left with something, and that one cannot only pay off climate commitments. Because we know that emission has to go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3498	The representative, Lars Haltbrecken, greeted me about the combustion plant in Trondheim. It would have been credible from SV if the sorting and recovery of waste in Trondheim were Norway's best. They have been in that position for many years now, with both the rapporteur-general, the municipal councillor and now the rapporteur-general again, but they are among the country's worst at sorting waste in Trondheim. You don't sort out wet organic waste. There is one point for the recovery of waste for ordinary consumers in a city of 200,000 people. That's not good. That means that most of the waste goes to combustion, and so we get the large emissions in the combustion plant. My hope now is to take this into account, that Trondheim, with the rapporteur and the Vice-President at the head, says: Yes, we should be involved and contribute. We're going to help get caught and stored in this sorting plant. We have to sort it out more. We need a fee related to quantity, volume and weight in order to reduce the amount of waste. But no, there has been no interest. In fact, for ten years now, there has been a plan for a large sorting plant in Trondheim – for the whole of Trøndelag – to improve this situation. But there is so much political unwillingness to implement it among both Trondheim's politicians who govern, and also the neighbouring municipalities that deliver their waste to the incineration plant today. It is the case that local measures are also needed to meet these climate objectives. That was the message in 2008, when Lars Sponheim, head of the Left, called me, who was municipal councillor at Trondheim that time. We have agreed on a climate settlement on Stortinget. Two-thirds of the measures have to be done locally, one-third we have to deal with nationally. I think that is still the case, and that is what must also be said on the telephone about the local rapporteurs and the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3511	It is not the intention to prolong the debate, but when some parties, perhaps in the absence of a common attitude to the proposition or perhaps in the absence of other things to do, stand and talk directly untrue or sometimes also with some kind of political dementia about political proposals that are being discussed in the Chamber today, I actually have to be allowed to correct them. The representative Sandtrøen spoke about Sondre, who has 15 cows and wants to further develop his feathers. I'm not sure if the representative Sandtrøen is thinking about what happened last time we had a government change and the Labour Party came in. Last time the Christian People's Party put in government, we're just increasing investment funds in order to lift some of the small and medium-sized practices. What happened when the Labour Party entered government offices? Well, support was taken down, and the development of small and medium-sized applications stopped. When the Christian People’s Party has been involved and has influenced farming, an increase in investment aid has been granted. The IBU funds haven't been higher, and they've become even higher about a tree builder. That means that we're developing several of the customs we depend on, in those parts of the country where the cadastral parcels are more scattered, and one is forced to operate in another way. Not only that – in agricultural terms, one has also followed up the climate measures that make us play along with the climate change that agriculture must undergo. The representative Haltbrecken reminded us that we had a government that was forced to ask cabinet questions about gas power plants. It is quite right that both the Christian People's Party and the Left entered the environmental history in gold writing at that time, and then the halt break comes with the same rhetorical point that he has tried again and again after the time of this ageing period. It is to make a kind of announcement that the number of proposals for representatives – even if the proposals for representatives are a framework against an open door, the frame-up of existing instruments or in direct contradiction with each other – is proof of the offensive nature of the opposition in climate policy. This has been tried every time by the halter. Every session we've had big climate issues, he's tried at the same time. The result is that Size did not bite. We have a government that has a climate policy that actually works. From the fact that one had a government with SV in the government offices – which saw Equinor invest in oil sands, gave permission to build the Goliath platform and saw that Norway lost in the renewable race – has received a government that changes the tax regime so that it becomes more profitable to invest in renewable hydropower, and that has a plan that shows that we not only see climate goals but also delivers a climate policy that reduces emissions. I'm looking forward to the election to the fall, because I think it's time we strengthened those parties that mean a practical difference in Norwegian policy. I know it's not parliamentary vocabulary to use English, but there's no better expression than that 'the proof of the pudding is in the eating'.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3527	Then the President will note that speaking of others as suffering from political dementia does not come under the name of parliamentary mention of co-colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3532	Representative Lars Haltbrecken is a knowledgeable environmental politician with a great commitment. But the exact proposal where SV believes that the polluter should avoid the charge of incineration is unfortunately based on what the world looked like in 2010, when the red-green government removed the burning fee. And that was quite right. The difference is that the combustion charge did not amount to tonnes of CO 2. She was on tons of waste because one didn't have enough measuring methods, and as the representative certainly knows, it's not that all the waste being burned is fossil emissions. The currently introduced fee is on CO 2, and it is the SV that is now preparing to remove. The second error is that at the time would remove the old fee because one did not have a good alternative in terms of cleaning. That was right in 2010, but now we have a good alternative, easy carbon capture and storage, where the technology has come much further. Now, if we were to do what SV, the Labour Party, the Progress Party and the Center Party wanted, not a combustion plant that spends a lot of money installing carbon capture and storage facilities would have the only competitive advantage for those who just drop out more CO 2 because it would cost NOK 0 to do it. I don't understand why they think it's a sensible policy. I don't always come back to this because I think it's the most important thing in the climate plan, because it's not. We're going to be able to achieve our climate objectives even if we do it as they suggest. I come back to it because there have been a number of posts here today, especially from representatives from SV and the Labour Party, where one regrets that there was no broad settlement. But what is a broad deal about, from SV to the Progress Party, is precisely this proposal to weaken the impact of the CO 2 tax when it comes to waste incineration. Therefore, I think it is so important to point it out – both because I think it is professionally wrong, what is done, and because it shows very well why it is imperative to have broad agreement between these parties when what they propose and form multiples for, does not strengthen climate policy, but does the opposite. In addition to that, as we are at the end, I will be allowed to thank for a good debate, because as far as it has been, I think it has also been a good process with this climate plan in Stortinget – not because everyone has been a few about everything, but because many parties have changed positions, moved and got to a more offensive climate policy, which they are promoting here today. I'm actually going to say that to all the parties in the Biggest, and that's very positive. But the basic thing is firm, and that's that the climate plan, as I said in my previous post, shows how we're going to achieve the climate goal that the Storting agrees on. He's detailed. No one has doubted that it will work, and that we will do it, and it seems to me to be good, because it shows that we have a great majority, fortunately, which are some of the goals, which are some of the most important ones, and which, at least apparently, have great confidence that the government will have the opportunity to implement that climate plan. And that's what the government intends to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3557	I have to be a little personal. I wanted to go to Stortinget because I wanted to fight for the climate, not to ruin our climate, so we could tell children and grandchildren that we've done everything we could. I know we're constantly arguing – it's politics, it's our job – but I'd like to praise the Left, the Green Party, the Christian People's Party and, of course, SV. There are parties that have been thinking about and working with the climate for many, many years. I know we can disagree a little bit about some of the solutions, but it's not these parties that are the problem, it's the big parties – the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right. I'm very concerned, everyone should be very concerned. The temperature of the globe rises fast, the sea rises and becomes more acidic, the ice melts, it becomes more extreme, we lose valuable nature, and many animals and birds die because of climate change. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We've made good money on oil and gas. Every person emits more greenhouse gases than almost every person in every country. Therefore, Norway should be among the first to change policy and cut greenhouse gas emissions quickly. The plan we have now is not good enough. We don't want to achieve the climate goals. This is important for the whole world, but it's also very important for our economy. If we engage in oil and gas production, we lose the fight for new jobs to our country. The pharmaceutical companies earn raw money. At all costs, the pharmaceutical companies have over 13 pst. profit every year. SV believes that we should give some of the profit cake to our well-being, that we can get StatMed and build state jobs, also in cooperation with private companies in Norway to get new jobs. SV received a majority in three proposals to produce more drugs in Norway — not StatMed, but in private companies. The government has not followed up. It's bad for the climate and very bad for our economy. I hope we can fight more for the climate, even in other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3572	The representative Lars Haltbrecken has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3577	Well, the polluter has to pay, and that's exactly what we're proposing, but we're adding the cost to those that are actually the cause of the emissions, the manufacturers of fossil plastics. Then we also reduce the amount of garbage, both here in Oslo, in Bergen, in Stavanger, in Trondheim and elsewhere. We don't want, like the Left and the Government, just export garbage to Sweden, which is the consequence of their proposal, and get the emissions there. We want to cut the emissions, we, not just send them over to Sweden. We want to cut emissions, and we want to ensure that we get CO 2 capture and storage at waste incineration plants in Norway. And if my colleague from the South-Trøndelag, Jon Gunnes, is concerned about it, he can break out and vote for the proposals put forward by SV and the Workers' Party, among others, here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3585	The representative Espen Barth Eide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3590	I think it's okay at the end of the debate to stress that there is a broad consensus on some important things. There is a broad consensus on Norway's climate objectives, that they should be achieved, there is at least a broad consensus on this, and there is a broad consensus on the need for increased CO 2 tax, which has also emerged here, both by attaching the matter to the protocol and in the form of a comment. But there is no doubt – and I think we should be honest about it – that that consensus would have been even stronger if we had been given a way we could have voted explicitly for it, that we could get it up in the form of decisions, and thus got a package of decisions that had supported it. I think that would have given an even clearer signal outwards. So I still mean that we're going to be honest that there would be a better deal. I fully agree with Stefan Heggelund that it was completely inappropriate to negotiate the ambitions, but my party – and I think more with me – would be ready to negotiate them and make them more concrete, if that were the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3600	I did not really intend to take the floor again in this matter, but when the Council of State goes up to the pulpit and says that there has been a good process in this matter, I have to say that there has not been any good process at all around the treatment of the government's climate communication – I am not talking about the process in the committee. Because today, then, we are dealing with a climate communication with a series of proposals that will require a huge amount of power, and that without knowing the future power needs of these measures. The centre therefore asked the Committee that the energy communication should be accelerated – in order to address the climate communication in the light of the future power situation. The government wouldn't be in on that. There should be no doubt that climate policy and energy policy are interrelated, but we noticed that there was little willingness on the part of the government to see these two issues in the context. Another issue: In 2020, the government sent out a press release and announced that it had reported an enhanced climate under the Paris Agreement with a target of 50-55 p.m. during the same period of time for the entire economy in 2030. The centre party supports such a goal for the overall economy, but we note that the government has not at any time facilitated dialogue and anchoring in the Stortingen in connection with the notification of the reinforced goal. Nor has the climate plan presented a reasoned proposal for an enhanced climate target. We must therefore only assume that the government will propose a reinforced climate target in the context of the notified case of changes to the climate law. Once again, it shows that the order in which these matters are dealt with is very unfortunate and results in the final outcome of the target debate itself and the consideration of the various measures in the climate communication will be achieved, while the objectives will be set out in the Climate Change Act at a later stage. When I first took the floor, I also want to say a few words about forest, because it has not been mentioned so much in this debate. In the last eight years, with this government, it has to be said that it has been eight lost years for the investment in Norwegian forest. In the 2012 climate agreement, a clear majority at Stortinget said we were going to start planting new forests. The government has not yet implemented this. The only party that voted against it in 2012 was the Progress Party. It's a little strange that the Progress Party has now suddenly been occupied by the forest when they've been in government for seven years, while they've been on the protection line to the Left, and even when they've been sitting with the Council of State on the agricultural side. If the Progress Party is to have credibility in its efforts for Norwegian forest, they should respectfully report that commitment long ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3611	I can't promise gold, but I can promise green forests. Some of what's important for SV is taking care of nature, taking care of what we're going to live on, because we're going to actually, believe it or not, also live on food in the future. Then there's a continuous battle for us to have arable land to grow our food on. Right now there is a fight in my own country, Rogaland, which is about Kvernaland, a large agricultural area that is now under pressure. We're talking about 2,000 deches, and a lot of it's being used as agricultural land today. Not long ago, I visited the group called Vern Kvernaland, who is working hard to regulate this to a data center. So in both natural and agricultural areas, you're going to have a giant force-consuming data center that's going to cost us what we're going to live on in the future. The case is at least for my part today, because we got a very negative development of the case. The local Labour Party team simply joins with the Right and the Advance Party and secures the plurality of this gigantic expansion, against which there is strong popular resistance. It's worrying. One of the proposals put forward by SV together with the Greens/Greens/EFA on this matter is that we ask the government to strengthen national soil protection. I discussed this matter with Minister of Agriculture Olug Vervik Bollestad a few weeks ago, and I hope that the government will intervene against the local decision and say that there will still be cultivation of agricultural products, it will be agriculture, not power-intensive data centers that threaten what we will live on in the future. We have to think that we are facing a climate crisis, but we are also facing a natural crisis – species that have disappeared, nature that is being built up, land that is being transformed into a heavy industry. And we have to stop that. We are forced to take care of the agricultural land we have in this country. We're forced to secure those areas for the future, for unless we're bad at it as a nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3624	A few last, I think, comments and answers at the end of a long debate: To Haltbrecken: I forgot a point that has been updated from the 2010 speech points, which is most relevant, when he is so concerned that this Swedish vacuum is going to come and take all the waste in Norway unless one gets to release free greenhouse gases here. In Sweden, therefore, there is a carbon charge when a waste is incinerated. They are subject to a quota and, in addition, have a combustion charge at the top of it. What SV is in favour of here is that one should have an exemption from the forurein payment principle in Norway, while one does not have it in Sweden. And then one is still afraid that then the companies in Sweden are going to be the ones burning garbage. This is not entirely related. But it's maybe because there's been a development here in the last eleven years. I would also like to add: why is it that SV thinks one has to choose between working for smaller waste, possibly with a plastic tax, and that it should actually cost to release CO 2 when an incinerator? You don't have to do that. There SV can only do as the Green Party says, they are for both, and therefore they do not smoke to remove the CO 2 tax on burning waste. So there's SV free to do, but it doesn't seem like they want to do it. So to the representative Sandra Borch, who thinks this has not been a good process. I would remind you that this has been a very thorough and long process of deep democratic involvement. The government put down a big tradesmanship that mouthed out in a climate cure, it spent a good year on, with the involvement of a number of important directorates and agencies. So it was on a long listener, where a film from business, stakeholder organisations, people most -- I think I got a 1500 hearing response. So the government has worked well and well for a year to write a big message, got a lot of input on her, and we've had a lot of climate debates in Stortinget in the meantime. And now the Committee has been working for several months with a long and broad audience, and fortunately, it is still giving up its support for the most important actions in the climate plan. That there's going to be a bad process, I think it's very hard to understand. This has been a good process, a thorough process and with a good result. Then I also thought it a little strange that the Central Party is so offended, it seems, that the government has submitted a new and ambitious goal after the Paris Agreement, a goal that they also agree with, according to the representative Sandra Borch. But I am well aware that it is good, and I say that it is up to the government to follow up the work of the Paris Agreement, and in it it is one every five years to report increased ambitions. Then, sadly, there was doubt in the public opinion in winter that the Center Party was actually for the increased ambitions, from party leaders down. But finally, as far as I was aware, the group meeting in the Central Party decided that yes, they are for Norway's climate goals. I thought that was very good, and if not one of many positive advances in Norwegian climate policy in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3645	I'm going to be very short, but if that unimaginable happened, that someone was sitting out there following this whole debate on Storting's Internet TV, and that they're still with us, and they got the impression, among other things. Because of Barth Eide's last post, that the only thing in this climate plan is the CO 2 tax, and that in a way, that's all you agree on in Stortinget now, I just want to say, it's wrong. There are a number of concrete measures in the climate plan and, by an alternating majority, the majority of the measures included in the climate plan. So it's over 100 proposals. If you also heard the contribution of the representative Wilkinson, who said that the measures contained in the climate plan are not enough to achieve the climate goals, you think yes, that was stupid. Then I can ensure that it is wrong. If you're curious about the table on it, you can, for example: see the estimated emission reduction effects of the government climate plan on page 51. You can also take a look at the knowledge base of the climate plan, the major report on climate change. I think we're better at being fair with each other when we're debating such an important issue, and we're not trying to create an impression of something that just doesn't add up. We are achieving the objectives of the government's climate plan. Then I see that I am still the last recorded, and then I dare to say a thousand heartfelt thanks for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3658	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3673	Three years ago, the government launched the strategy for cooperation with the EU for this enlargement period. It has been and is an important governance document in European policy. The strategy sets clear objectives for cooperation with the EU to contribute to a safe, free and economically strong Europe, where countries cooperate to meet common challenges. This has been and is our guide when the government has sought – and achieved – closer cooperation with the EU on security and defence, when we have taken an active role in defending and promoting the rule of law and democracy in Europe, when we have contributed to a well-functioning internal market through the EEA, and when we are now intensifying cooperation with the European Union on green giving. Cooperation with the EU has also been crucial for our management of the pandemic, and it will be central to speeding up the economy again. The pandemic has hit the European economy very hard. According to European Commission forecasts, GDP growth in the euro area will be 3.8 pst. in 2021 and 2022, after a fall of 6,8 pst. in 2020. There are considerable differences between EU countries and the forecasts are, of course, uncertain, but there is hope that overall GDP in the EU will rise to levels before the pandemic in 2022. The retrieval we take longer than in e.g. The United States and China. At the same time, the EU countries — as most others — experience severe government deficits and significant debt build-up in the cooling water of the pandemic. In this picture, the EU’s economic reconstruction package – which is historically both in terms of device and scale – is a significant contribution of solidarity to getting the economy back on track. EU countries present their reform plans, on the basis of which payments from the summer will be made, as assessed by the Commission and the Council. It assumes that all countries have formally agreed to the package. These funds are not primarily economic relief, but a contribution to implementing structural reforms in order to strengthen the economies of the countries more fundamentally. It is economically and politically central that countries are able to benefit from the rescue package in a way that creates jobs and economic growth over time. The success of the implementation of the economic reconstruction package will also have a major impact on Norway and the Norwegian economy. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown and demonstrates the importance of European and Nordic cooperation for Norway. We are included in the EU crisis management and are fully involved in a number of bodies where the pandemic response is developed at European level, such as the Health Safety Committee and the IPCR, both of which are essential for information sharing and for the development of coordinated response responses in Europe. It gives us security, influence and knowledge. Close contact between countries increases our understanding of the situation and strengthens our ability to take appropriate national action. Norway is part of the EU Common Vaccine Strategy, and we acquire vaccines through EU acquisitions. The support from Sweden has been invaluable. To date, the EU has concluded agreements with eight vaccine manufacturers and so far four vaccines have been authorised by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The prospects for a wide range of vaccines through cooperation with the EU were important as we had to decide on purchases without knowing whether the vaccines would work or be approved for use. It would be difficult for Norway alone to make risk investments in the development and production of so many different vaccine types. Participation in the EU Common Vaccine Strategy gives us a flexibility that we would not have had if we had been committed to one supplier, as some have suggested. When AstraZeneca’s vaccine is delayed or suspended for safety reasons, the progress of the vaccination programme is ensured by the supply of other vaccines. We expect stable high deliveries from Pfizer in the second quarter, together with over 2 million doses. We also expect Janssen to be able to meet its obligations regarding more than 900,000 endosamic vaccines during the second quarter. And Moderna continues to increase the volume of its deliveries to Europe. It does not help to be a rich country when the whole world is hunting for the same vaccines and vaccine exports are limited by different measures worldwide. We are stronger when we buy vaccines through greater commitment cooperation, and therefore the EU was the right partner for Norway. The Commission has adopted a temporary requirement for prior authorisation for the export of vaccines out of the EU. Exports to Norway were originally not exempt from this requirement, but I quickly received a political assurance from Commission President von der Leyen that the claim would not affect Norway. The aim of the EU has been to ensure transparency in the distribution of vaccines and to ensure that vaccine producers fulfil the obligations of the EU joint purchasing agreements, of which we are part. Of course, it took some time before the policy insurance was laid down in written guidelines. But now we've got that. Therefore, the new legislation does not have an impact on our vaccination programme. At the same time as the population is vaccinated, we see that new virus variants get foothold. Therefore, there is a need to monitor and assess the effectiveness of vaccines on new virus variants. At the same time, clinical studies and production must be adapted accordingly. The EU launched a comprehensive response in February, called the HERA Incubator Plan. Norway follows this work closely. The EU is also working on the creation of a corona certificate – a so-called ‘Digital Green Certificate’. The certificate shall demonstrate that a person has either been vaccinated, tested negative for or had covid-19. The government sees the value of a coordinated approach to the design of Corona certificates in Europe. It will contribute to a safe reopening. Our starting point is that the epidemiological situation and the degree of vaccination must be at the root of what relief we can make in the national restrictions, and we therefore support the fact that the use of the certificate itself is regulated by each country. The EU is now strengthening health cooperation in order to be better equipped to deal with future pandemics. Norway is dependent on the link with European solutions in order to be optimally prepared to meet both this pandemic and future health crises. The government supports EU ambitions and jobs for Norwegian participation in the European Health Union. Norway also cooperates with the EU to secure medicines and medical devices for low-income and middle-income countries through the Access to Covid-19 Tools Accelerator partnership, or ACTA. COVAX, the vaccine pillar of ACT-A, shall contribute to ensuring access to vaccines against covid-19 in all countries, irrespective of their ability to pay and based on fair access. COVAX is managed by the vaccine alliance Gavi, the global coalition for the prevention of epidemics and pandemics, CEPI, and the World Health Organisation. The EU is one of the main support players in this work. In a short time, the EU will be ready to share, donate or resell vaccines to other countries, both through COVAX and directly. As part of our vaccine cooperation with the EU, Norway is leading the secretariat preparing the legal mechanisms for this. Covid-19 has made it very clear how vulnerable we can be like both people, society and nation-states. For Norway, cooperation with the EU has made a decisive contribution to our national management of the pandemic. All experience shows that European cooperation creates an added value that we cannot achieve on our own. Therefore, the two main priorities of the government's annual work programme for cooperation with the EU are to intensify cooperation on health and to contribute to a stronger exit from the crisis in Europe. Europe's green giving is at the heart of this work. Despite the pandemic, the EU has managed to maintain its climate ambitions. The pandemic has actually contributed to accelerating the green conversion, not delaying it, as many thought would happen. The greening of Europe is at the heart of this work. Norway is an active partner in the current transition. As you know, the green gift is both a growth strategy and a cross-sectoral plan to make Europe the first climate-neutral continent in the world by 2050. In addition, it is a solidarity project aiming at a fair burden-sharing within the EU and a platform for EU climate diplomacy globally. The initiative is a defined generation project in Europe, where ambitions, mobilising resources and acting strategically have so far been successfully designed. There is great power in this work. Ambitious strategies for offshore wind power, hydrogen, circular economy, sustainable chemicals and natural diversity were put forward in 2020, and before the end of the year agreement was reached on a reinforced 2030 climate target with a minimum emission cut of 55 pst. Within the summer of this year, the Commission is expected to present proposals for new and up-to-date instruments in a number of key areas, including proposals for a revision of the ETS Directive, the IPR and a proposal for a CO 2 border adjustment mechanism. The government is following up the ambition to be a partner for the EU in this work. On 1 March, the Minister for Climate and Environment, the Minister for Oil and Energy, the Minister for Transport and I met the European Commission to identify areas of mutual interest and to make Norwegian research, technology, business and knowledge contributions visible. Both the EU and Norway want good regulation and instruments to achieve our enhanced climate targets by 2030. In areas such as transport electrification, green shipping, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and sea wind, Norway has sought expertise and technology. This provides a basis for enhanced cooperation both at authority level and among business actors. The global dimension of Europe's green giving is also important for Norway. Norway and the EU are united in their view of the need to mobilise climate finance and ensure increased global ambitions for emissions reduction. Norway and the EU will continue their efforts to promote global ambitions in areas such as biodiversity, chemicals and waste, reduction of deforestation and reduction of marine plastic pollution. The United Kingdom and the EU agreed in December on a trade and cooperation agreement. This agreement is somewhat different from the EEA Agreement. The UK government has wanted less committed cooperation with the EU than Norway has. They have, and we respect what Britain has made. However, the consequence is also fewer rights for citizens, worse conditions for export businesses and, in many areas, more bureaucracy than the EEA Agreement entails. Each trailer compartment that goes from the EU to the United Kingdom and vice versa is now facing paperwork that they did not meet four months ago. The transition from EU membership to the trade agreement has been immediate and noticeable in trade in goods. Although the parties agreed to continue the duty-free trade in goods, the United Kingdom does not escape the technical barriers to trade arising from the exit of an internal market. Thus, both exporters and importers are now facing concrete challenges related to rules of origin and product standards. The fact that they have also left the customs union means that they are now meeting customs declarations and VAT. The agreement concluded by the United Kingdom also differs from the EEA Agreement by granting free market access for all goods, including agricultural products. We would not have been able to protect Norwegian agriculture with such an agreement. The agreement provides proper free access to the market for seafood, but it links access to resources and access to the market, which would not be in our interest. The government prioritises working for as good a condition as possible for Norwegian maritime food exports, while protecting Norwegian agriculture. Market access for services, including financial services, which are very important for the UK economy, is also much more limited than in the EU and the EEA. The UK government has not wanted to include the free movement of people between the United Kingdom and the EU in the new agreement. The population of EEA countries does not need a visa to visit the United Kingdom for up to six months, and British citizens can stay in the Schengen area, including Norway, for up to 90 days during any 180-day period. For both Norwegian citizens who are going to the United Kingdom and British who are going to Norway for longer stays, for example: in order to move here or to take a longer study stay, self-regulation applies. Nor have the EU and the United Kingdom continued mutual recognition of qualifications for regulated professions such as doctors and nurses. The British also do not have the same formal access as the EEA Agreement gives us to make representations and could influence when the EU creates new rules. In areas covered by the EEA Agreement, Norwegian actors can make calls in line with EU countries. I would also like to mention that the United Kingdom has lost access to the Schengen Information System and the European arrest warrant. These are important cooperation systems in EU police cooperation, in which Norway participates. The government considers that it is in Norwegian interest that the EU and the United Kingdom have their new contractual relationship to function properly. However, we also believe that a similar agreement for Norway would be a far worse option than being a full-fledged participant in the internal market, as we are today. The EEA Agreement remains Norway’s main agreement, and the EU will continue to be our main partner, even after the United Kingdom has left the EU. In 2019, approx. 80 pst. of our total exports of goods to the EU. The value of EU goods exports was 711 billion. kr in 2019. Without the United Kingdom, exports to the EU are still around 60 p.m., or 530 b.m. kr., of total exports. The EEA Agreement contributes to the security of the Norwegian economy and well-being. It is an ecosystem of rights and obligations, creating a common area of equal rules for all. It has ensured opportunities and rights for Norwegian enterprises, entrepreneurs, students and individuals living in a European community with now approx. 450 million people and 30 countries. The EU-UK agreement is a more ordinary free trade agreement between two separate markets. Compared to the EEA Agreement, which links 30 countries in a single market, it provides for a reduced predictability and framework conditions for market players. Our economic cooperation with the United Kingdom must be based on a new foundation as a result of the British leaving the EEA when they left the EU. Since the summer of 2020, therefore, together with our EEA/EFTA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein, we have negotiated a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom. Negotiations initially slowed down because the United Kingdom was at the same time negotiating with the EU. Free trade negotiations are now in an intense and demanding phase, and we are working too hard to complete the agreement as soon as possible. It is important for Norwegian industry that the free trade agreement can enter into force as soon as possible, so that we can maintain, and in some areas increase, our market shares in one of our main export markets. We initially want a free trade agreement that is at least as good as the EU-United Kingdom agreement. At the same time, in some areas, we have interests other than the EU and the United Kingdom that we will have to take into account. We want, for example: more comprehensive obligations on maritime transport, mutual recognition of professional qualifications and telecommunications than agreed between the EU and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom’s agreement with the EU has not led to the need to change Norway’s negotiating positions, but in the light of its agreement with the EU, the United Kingdom has adjusted its mandate for the negotiations with us. It is very positive, and it is a contribution to ensuring that we have rules similar to those of the EU in areas such as technical barriers to trade and veterinary issues. The United Kingdom is now also willing to negotiate public acquisitions. For access to the market for goods, we are working on finding a solution that leads to lower customs duties on important seafood products. At the same time, we must take care of Norwegian agricultural interests. But a free trade agreement with the United Kingdom is more than trade in goods. It is important for the Norwegian economy to establish a free trade agreement covering a wide range of economic interactions, such as: investments and trade in services. The aim is to ensure maximum predictability of trade in services and investments and to prevent the introduction of new requirements which would make it difficult for Norwegian enterprises to enter into service or operate in the United Kingdom. We also have a self-interest in ensuring that British businesses continue their activities in Norway as before and facilitate the establishment of UK businesses in Norway in the future. We also want to continue the principle of ‘roam like home’, so that it is not more expensive for the Nordics to use the telephone in the United Kingdom. We also need to ensure that Norwegian students in the United Kingdom are admitted to their British education for work in Norway and Norwegian education for work in the United Kingdom, so that we can interact with the United Kingdom as much as before. Until the entry into force of the FTA, trade in goods with the United Kingdom is regulated by the interim agreement we agreed on in 2020. As I have informed the Stortinget about earlier, the agreement ensures the continuation of zero-tariff duties for all industrial products and the general customs regimes for seafood and agricultural products as well as duty-free quotas for seafood and agricultural products where trade has taken place. Other areas, such as: trade in services and investment is regulated by international agreements, such as WTO legislation. Several of our competitors have concluded comprehensive free trade agreements with the United Kingdom. Without an agreement, Norwegian business will have worse conditions for trade in services, investments and public acquisitions than for example. The EU, Japan and Canada. In other areas of our bilateral relationship, we already had agreements that ensure good cooperation before Christmas. This included road and air transport and fisheries management and judicial cooperation in civil matters. We also carried out a bilateral exchange of letters in the field of social security and health. This will apply until we get a longer term agreement in place. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU resulted in a significant change in the traditional contractual structure for fisheries cooperation with the EU and the United Kingdom. Negotiations have been demanding. However, on 16 March Norway, the EU and the United Kingdom concluded a joint fisheries management agreement in the North Sea for 2021. In addition, Norway and the EU have signed three bilateral agreements dealing primarily with access to fishing in each other’s waters and the exchange of fishing quotas. These are important agreements for both parties. Norway is obliged by international law to offer the EU 4.14 pst. of the cod quota in the Barents Sea and this must be compensated by equivalent fishing opportunities for Norwegian fishermen. This year, the EU has only switched to about half of the cod quantity they switched to in 2020. Norway has been compensated for, inter alia: quota for hake and different fishing quotas in Greenland waters, in line with the traditional quota-exchange structure. The second agreement concerns the management of fish stocks and access to fishing in each other’s zones in the Skagerrak. In practice, it opens up the possibility for Norwegian fishermen to fish in Swedish and Danish waters, and for Swedish and Danish vessels to fish in Norwegian zones in Skagerrak. The third agreement is a smaller neighbourhood agreement with Sweden. Negotiations with the United Kingdom on zoning and quota agreements for 2021 are still ongoing. Regardless of the negotiations, the EU has unilaterally granted itself a cod quota in the Svalbard fishing zone, which goes far beyond the one provided for by Norway and which was notified to the EU in December last year. It's unacceptable. Only Norway can regulate and allocate quotas in the fishing protection zone. The EU's action is a violation of Norway's rights and a breach of EU obligations under the Convention on the Law of the Sea. We have protested against the EU from Norway, both through diplomatic channels and at political level. We have made it clear to the EU that any fishing other than Norwegian quota allocations will be an illegal fishing, and it will be usually enforced by the Coast Guard. An effective European voice globally is a prerequisite for internal cohesion. Our close cooperation with the EU is based on mutual trust and common values. It is therefore both very alarming and very regrettable that the negative developments in some EU countries continue in terms of democracy and the rule of law. It is unacceptable that political leaders use their power position to weaken power-sharing principles, attack democratic institutions, weaken minority protection, attack freedom of expression and the press, or undermine the independence of the judiciary, and thus the foundations of democracy. The negative trend has led the EU to develop a number of new tools — both legal and economic — to meet this challenge. More than 30 years after the fall of the wall and the wave of democracy in the 1990s, there is a renewed willingness among the Member States and the Commission to use the instruments that the EU institutions actually have and to find new ones. Infringements of the Treaties and proceedings initiated under Article 7 have been brought against both Poland and Hungary. An annual legal report has been introduced describing developments in each Member State. There is also a need to have expectations of the new EU regulation on legal neutrality, which is intended to protect the EU’s common budgets and internal transfers. At the same time, there is a growing recognition of the need to invest more in knowledge of the basic values of cooperation. This is necessary to make society more robust against attacks on democracy — both from the outside and from the inside. Norway wishes to participate actively in this cooperation. We therefore follow these developments closely to see how we can best support various measures aimed at promoting democracy in the EU. An overall objective of the EEA funds is to contribute to social and economic cohesion in the EEA area. In our and the EU's view, it is important to have a value-based approach in order to achieve this. Through the EEA funds, we defend common values by supporting organisations and institutions that work to promote the principles and respect of democracy and human rights, equality and diversity of the rule of law. In recent years, we have seen a very negative trend related to hateful statements and violence against LHBTI individuals. The European Parliament recently decided that the EU should be an LHBTI-friendly zone in response to increasing pressure on this group in some EU countries. Norway has stopped Norwegian funds for municipalities and regions of Poland which have adopted declarations against LHBTI individuals and so-called LHBTI ideology. One exception is that we continue to support civil society in these municipalities and regions. The need for this support is probably greater than ever. Private enterprises receiving funds are also excluded from this interception. Through our NGO programmes, Norway and the other two donors are among the largest contributors to organisations working for democracy and human rights in many of the 15 beneficiary countries. This may be our main contribution through EEA funds. Consortia of organisations are responsible for the local management of civil society support. It is a fundamental principle for us that this support should be managed independently of the authorities. This was an indispensable requirement also in the negotiations with Hungary and the reason why the framework agreements for the current period were not signed between donors and Hungary until last December. Based on an open tendering procedure, we must agree on an independent operator for the NGO programme by the end of June. If we don't agree, Hungary's ability to receive some EEA funds in the period at all. We are now preparing for negotiations with the EU on a new period of EEA funding. I believe that a very central prerequisite for a new period must be to put in place even more robust mechanisms to maintain the values that underpin the cooperation. The EU has adopted a new regulation to strengthen compliance with the principles of the rule of law where threats to them could threaten the use of EU funds. We should try to have at least the same strict rules. The Government believes that support for civil society should be continued and strengthened. Civil society is under increasing pressure and needs are high. In many countries, the funds represent Norway's gear, one of the few sources of income for civil society. Participation in EU programmes is an important part of government's European policy. This year we are entering a new programming period for the next seven years, 2021–2027. Several of the programmes we are already participating in are being continued. At the same time, some new programmes have also entered the next programming period. New in this period is that several of the programmes have even stronger synergies and links with each other than in the past. Through the programmes, Norway has access to important research, infrastructure and technologies that we want to develop in any case, but which we can hardly develop alone. In some areas, the programmes contribute to social goods that we want to develop or that it has a high cost of not developing. Access to big data is a very good example of what we get access to, which we wouldn't otherwise have had. By participating in EU programmes, for example: Norwegian cancer researchers have been given access to much larger data on cancer patients than they could have had access to national data alone. Access to large data is essential for the development of cancer treatment. The EU's strong commitment to digitisation and green shifts is evident in the programmes. These are important priorities that we want to be part of. Through participation in the EU Health Programme and the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, Norway has access to important measures to address the current coronary crisis. It is of great importance for Norway to participate in the world’s largest research and innovation programme, Horizon Europe. One of the new programmes is the European Defence Fund. For the Norwegian defence industry, the Fund is an important measure to ensure access to the European market. In addition, it allows us to engage in multi-national European research and industrial cooperation, where Norwegian research environments and defence industries are closely integrated. The participation rights of the EEA/EFTA countries are enshrined in the EEA Agreement. This plan incorporates the decision on programme cooperation into the EEA Agreement for the summer. Therefore, in order to be able to participate in the programmes concerned without delay, pre-consent is obtained from Stortinget now in the spring session. The proposals for consent will be forwarded to Stortinget during April. The first ones will be here tomorrow. Through the EEA Agreement, we are part of what is often referred to as the EU's largest success story, the internal market. Many may still think of the EEA Agreement as a trade agreement that regulates economic cooperation between Norway and the EU. But the EEA is also an agreement that gives rights to Norwegian citizens and strengthens our ability to safeguard our interests and values in an increasingly tougher global competition. The single market regulatory framework, known as too high standards, has also tended to be a norm-setting global one, not least because adaptation to EU legislation is the key to accessing the EU's internal market. As a participant in the EEA, Norway benefits from EU regulatory strength globally. In the digital field, the EU wants rules enabling European companies to compete with the US technology giants while ensuring important values relating to privacy and individual rights. This balance sheet process is also important for Norway. The regulatory framework that becomes applicable internationally is also important for the green transition of the European economy. In particular, it will be important to prevent European industry from moving out or being out of competition from imported products from countries with less ambitious climate policies than the EU. Sectors where there is a risk of carbon leakage include: cement, iron and steel and aluminium. In this context, strong multilateral institutions and rules are becoming important to ensure fair competition. Norway and the EU have a common interest in defending and further developing the international trading system. The EU initiative following the US presidential election of closer cooperation with the US to revitalise multilateral cooperation, not least through the WTO, is very positive. In my presentation last autumn, I mentioned the proposal for the new EU Pact on Migration and Asylum. This proposal includes strengthening Schengen cooperation. The Commission will also present this spring a new strategy for Schengen. This strategy is expected to focus on strengthening internal security in the Schengen area, inter alia. better implementation of existing legislation for the control of the external border. An ambitious further development of technological solutions and new information systems is under way to strengthen external border control and support police cooperation. When presenting the proposal for a new Schengen strategy, we actively participate in the discussions and negotiations on the basis of the Norway Association Agreement. As part of the preparations, the Commission invited a Schengen Forum at ministerial level last November, where the Minister of Justice and Defence took part. We will also attend future meetings on this subject. Norway has also participated in consultations at the level of office. The Schengen Forum contributes to raising current issues at ministerial level. We have supported better internal border controls from Norway, but this is done in ways that do not result in physical personal checks. An example is that passenger lists of ferries and aeroplanes crossing the internal Schengen border are automatically checked against the Schengen information system and, where appropriate, the Interpol alert records. Only in the event of a meeting of the Schengen Information System will the police carry out a physical check to possibly apprehend a requested person. This will increase safety, while normal travellers will not be prevented when crossing the border. It is also expected that, in the light of the challenges posed by the pandemic, the Commission will propose amendments to the internal border control rules. A similar proposal in 2017 did not come forward. Like several other countries, Norway’s position was that it must be up to each country to carry out internal border controls as a last action if the safety situation so warrants. We have communicated to the Commission that we have not changed our view on this. The Supreme Court gave its opinion on the fourth rail package of the European Union on 27 March. A unanimous Supreme Court gave full support to the established practice that a low-interference authority may be transferred to an EU agency by a normal majority in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. The Supreme Court shares in its consideration the government's preliminary assessment of the fourth railway package as presented to the Stortinget in the legislative and consent proposal. The Supreme Court therefore concludes that the Storting may give its consent to the inclusion of the fourth railway package in the EEA Agreement by a general majority. Links with and participation in EU agencies are relevant in several areas. In the transport sector, Norway has benefited greatly from participating in the work of the Aviation Safety and Railway Agencys. We have been able to contribute, inter alia: expertise in operating under severe climatic conditions into the European regulatory development in the technical and safety field. It is important for the government that Norwegian authorities continue to be able to participate in the work of the Railway Agency. Now the further progress is being made in dealing with the matter in Stortinget. The majority has received a thorough advisory opinion from the Supreme Court, and this, in my opinion, provides a good basis for the future decisions of the Grand Duchy. The Portuguese Presidency has raised social issues on its agenda. The action plan for the follow-up to the EU social pillar will be central to the social summit in May. The initiatives announced in the action plan are largely non-binding, but they also contain some initiatives that may be EEA-relevant. Examples include a possible proposal to regulate the working conditions of those working within digital platforms and to strengthen worker protection against hazardous chemicals in the working environment. One of the principles of the social pillar concerns the right of workers to reasonable wages, which ensures decent living conditions. To follow-up, last year the Commission presented a proposal for a Directive on adequate minimum wages and salaries in Europe. Governments have a strong understanding of the goals of better living standards and higher wages for the lowest-paid in Europe. We also support the intention to strengthen the basis of collective bargaining. This is an area of different national challenges and requires nationally adapted solutions. The Commission has stated to the government that the proposal will distinguish between the countries that have currently regulated the minimum wage and the countries where the social partners are negotiating the wage conditions, as in Norway. Neither the social partners nor the government want a directive that can interfere with wage formation, including weakening the role of the parties in wage formation or weakening incentives to organise. Norway believes that the EU should instead work to strengthen collective agreements and dialogue between social partners. The proposal for a directive is now being debated in the Council and in the European Parliament's Committee on Employment. Several questions in the proposal for a directive have not been clarified, and there is considerable disagreement between the Member States about the proposal. In January, a group of nine EU countries, including Sweden and Denmark, sent a letter to the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union where they, among others, the wish for a less binding legal instrument than a directive and stressed the importance of respecting the role of social partners and the different labour market models. The Government, by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has expressed our view of the matter in a letter to the Portuguese Presidency and a general support for the views of these nine countries. We are now carrying out a thorough assessment of the EEA relevance of the proposal. Under the EEA Agreement, Norway is part of the internal energy market. Based on the third energy market package, the Commission has adopted legislation, inter alia: on capacity allocation, operation of the electricity transmission system and balancing of the power system. This shall contribute to the promotion of the functioning of the internal energy market. The decisions of the EEA Committee relating to these Regulations provide for the consent of the EEA Joint Committee. In order to meet the EU's enhanced climate targets, the Commission is planning to amend several of the energy and climate legislation. We have made several recordings to take care of Norwegian interests, among others. sea wind, hydrogen and carbon capture and storage. The government will further develop energy cooperation with our European partners under the green guise of Europe. The establishment of a classification system for sustainable economic activity, so-called taxonomy, is an important measure for turning private capital towards sustainable investment. To achieve this goal, the criteria must be ambitious, based on science, and they must be simple to use in practice. The government has recorded its work on a first set of criteria, both in meetings with the Commission and in the public hearing. In our meeting with the Commission on 1 March, we underlined that hydropower needs to be treated in the same way as other renewable energies. The Commission then initiated a new meeting on the criteria for hydropower and has responded to our arguments. Differentiated employer’s fee is one of the most important regional policy instruments in Norway, and today’s scheme is approved by 2021. A new EEA Regional Aid Code for the period 2022-2027 is expected to be adopted in the first half of this year. Thereafter, the scheme must be adjusted and notified so that the ESA can approve the scheme applicable from 2022. In consultation on draft new legislation, we have pointed out that there should be a possibility of differentiation of aid within merged municipalities and that there should be a minimum of sectoral exemptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3881	The President will propose that the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the European Council in Stortinget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3899	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3908	It is a single nutrition committee that promotes this attitude to include a regulation on contagious animal diseases and amending and repealing certain acts in the animal health field in the EEA Agreement. The Animal Health Regulation is an overall legal framework with harmonised principles for the whole animal health field and applies to both terrestrial and aquatic animals. It covers all animal species, both wild and kept animals, germinal products and products of animal origin. The Animal Health Regulation is essentially a continuation of the existing rules, only in new legislation, while also entailing changes in several areas. EU animal health rules aim at the prevention and control of animal diseases in terrestrial and aquatic animals and diseases communicable between animals and humans. The Code shall strengthen prevention efforts to reduce disease outbreaks. Better animal health also improves animal welfare. The new animal health rules also clarify the division of responsibilities between authorities and economic operators. Furthermore, it appears that the inclusion of its provisions would have economic and administrative consequences affecting direct supervisory authorities and economic operators. The cost impacts have been calculated as far as possible. Among other things, the Food Safety Authority costs the development and implementation of training and information measures, the establishment and updating of different registers, and the operation and maintenance of ICT systems. This means that implementation of the act requires a decision to grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3917	Norway has a good animal health record. Good animal health is a prerequisite for high quality safe animal products. In addition, good animal health provides a cost-effective and sustainable food production. Liability for animal health has been shared. I am responsible for terrestrial animal health, while the Minister for Fisheries and Food is responsible for fish health. The EU adopted a Regulation on animal health in March 2016. The new legislation is a continuation of the existing rules but also involves changes in several areas. Today’s Norwegian animal health legislation is mainly harmonised with EU legislation in this area. Therefore, the EU's new animal health legislation is passing on legislation that we already have in the EEA Agreement. The new animal health Regulation was incorporated into the EEA Agreement on 11 December 2020, subject to the consent of the Stortinget. The Animal Health Regulation provides more comprehensive legislation than current legislation. It provides an overall legal framework with harmonised principles for the whole of the animal health field. The new animal health rules apply to terrestrial and aquatic animals, both wild animals and animals kept by humans. In addition, rules are provided for breeding material and products of animal origin. It is positive that the animal health regulation has given greater attention to the prevention of the spread of infectious diseases. Anti-infectious activities contribute to fewer outbreaks of the disease. Better animal health also improves animal welfare. The new animal health rules clarify the division of responsibilities between authorities and economic operators. In addition, the new animal health rules shall provide for simpler and safer enforcement of the legislation and increased predictability. The new EU animal health legislation will not meet all the needs we have to further develop our good health status. However, the Animal Health Regulation provides for stricter national measures and rules for disease control. For example, I would like to say: to continue today's practice of moving past street dogs. My ministry is also working on completing a national animal health strategy for terrestrial animals, the aim of which is to preserve and improve Norwegian animal health. Plant health is not part of the EEA Agreement. Therefore, in the case of waterradish, I am thinking of continuing restrictions on the movement of bees and hives across the national border on the basis of the plant health code. Finally, I would like to stress that the Minister for Fisheries and Food and I believe that the inclusion of the animal health regulation in the EEA Agreement as a whole will strengthen the work on terrestrial and fish health in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3934	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3939	Even after listening to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the EEA, I am still a critic and have some critical questions that I think it is important to be clarified when dealing with this matter. There is no doubt that Norway has good animal health, and it is important to take care of it. I want first to challenge concretely what is happening to street dogs – either that one in organized forms collects stray dogs in or outside EU countries and moves them to Norway, or that one falls in love with a dog outside the restaurant when one is on the south side, at the times we're running it, and wants to take him home to Norway. The question is: can one guarantee that the ban on the importation of pet dogs, in practice, can also be passed on within this regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3946	The new EU animal health legislation sets out certain rules for the handling of dogs, as the representative rightly points out, including previous gate dogs. But I remember Norway tightening this up even on 1 July 2018. This practice I want to continue and will continue, and I believe it is the basis for doing so based on the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3951	So we can go over to another theme that I don't know about, but for those who engage, it's important, and it's important for the Norwegian animal health, that's this with hiking gifts. For Norwegian bihelsa, too, it must be possible to say that it is good, and it is an important principle that one can prevent migration across borders. Then is the question to the Council of State whether this regulation, although I accept it, will continue to be possible to prohibit travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3958	I also said in my introduction that we have a national ban on watering across the national border. That's because we're afraid of, for example, the transmission of infectious diseases. Then it is that in the EEA – in the new Animal Health Directive – there is no basis for a ban. I would therefore like to continue the restrictions, because within plant health this is not within the EEA Agreement. This also applies to communicable diseases. Moving bees and having bees that cross national borders allow, for example: Pear fire, which is a challenge in our own state, where we actually got it from somewhere. It is important for me to be able to continue the strict legislation we have for bees, precisely with regard to our own, good plant health.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3965	I thank you again for your answer. I think it is important that these things are highlighted when we deal with this matter in Stortinget. The third and last theme – and I promise to stop now – is about the economic consequences of this. For this, there is an economic impact on the Food Authority, and then my question is whether the government and the Council have as their aim the follow-up of the Food Authority, so that the implementation of this Regulation does not go beyond the other tasks of the Food Authority today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3972	I would first like to say that for the Food Safety Authority, it is also important to have international contacts and cooperation, in terms of infectious diseases, which is important for our animal health. An example is the use of antibiotics, which we are good at in our own country, and which it is important that we also be able to communicate to Europe. The second is that we have had situations where we have had infectious diseases that have been challenging, which means that the contact network is important. Then it is quite right, as the representative says, that the animal health regulation will be resource-intensive for the Food Safety Authority. They've estimated 40-45 million. DKK at one-off and SEK 6-12 million. kr in annual expenditure. It goes on computer systems, training, etc. Any increased appropriations must be managed through the ordinary budgetary processes. I don't want to say anything about them now, but I'm concerned that the ordinary budgetary processes also have to apply to the Food Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3980	It is often claimed that we have very good animal health in Norway. We also have good animal welfare in Norway compared to other countries, including in Europe, it is best to say. I agree. At the same time, it is now said that by adopting these regulations and incorporating them into Norwegian legislation, we will have a better system than we had. Could the Council of State explain the seemingly conflicting views of what I am now saying: that we have better animal health in Norway than in Europe, while at the same time providing better animal health for the new European regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3985	Firstly, it's true, as the representative says, that we have very good animal health in Norway compared to other countries. That doesn't mean that everything is perfect, but that means that compared to other countries, we have a lot to contribute. This applies, as I also said to the previous representative, antibiotic use, it concerns the standards we have, it concerns veterinary services, etc. But it's also about a knowledge base that we're sitting on in our own country. When I say that it will provide better animal health, it's about that this is the legislation that we've been dealing with, and yet it's managed to keep our national identity in good animal health. And we're going to keep doing that. Then we have an opportunity, I mean, to look beyond our own pot edge and fill up with other countries. We as consumers are gradually demanding both important animal health and minor use of antibiotics, because it's all about good public health at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3992	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This makes me a little safer, but at the same time I have to ask specifically: there was less use of antibiotics in Norway than in Europe, and in other countries. At the same time, we have about salmonella-free herds, which can be a big problem abroad. So my question is, could the new regulation be a pressure or a requirement for us that our old arrangements can't be kept in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e3997	I believe that our good animal health and our low number of Salmonella herds, which are hit hard on, are a pretense for the Norwegian market – that we have produced Norwegian food with that quality. I think that will also be a quality in the international context, because people and countries and productions look to Norway and how we can do it. Why do we have fewer animal diseases? Why can we get to what we're doing? So yes, I think it's fully possible as long as one manages to maintain the well-being and health of animals and plants that are necessary to have the good industry that we have in agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4002	I thank you again for the answer. The answer I was after was whether these regulations would be rich in it. Will it rock at our old system in any way? Will it put any pressure on us to liberalize or do so that we cannot apply our old legislation in a way, and that we have it, what do we say, the green island of this European landscape in that sector? It's a little bit important to get answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4007	I have said, even in my introduction, that this is legislation that has been in force for a long time and that is now in a new theme. That means that I think it is fully possible to maintain the good legislation we have on strict use of antibiotics, low use of sprays and animal welfare requirements, precisely in terms of the quality of what we are going to produce in our own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4012	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4031	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4038	The Committee has examined document 8:106 S for 2020-2021 on some technical simplifications and I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. There is an overall committee which understands that it could be practical for vehicle owners to have EU control and ADR control carried out at the same time at a workshop. However, the Committee did not have a majority to rule out or delegate powers to carry out ADR checks to authorised heavy-duty garages. Nor did it become a majority to derogate from the general rule on lateral and underrun protection of N3G vehicles. In the committee reading, it was pointed out that foldable lateral and underrun barriers could be a good alternative. A majority of the Committee, on the other hand, opposes the Storting to ask the Government to examine the possibility of a regulatory amendment relating to the modification of the permissible total vehicle weight of 7500 kg or more. We in the Right support the position and note that our and Left's proposal to explore the possibility of transferring authority to carry out ADR controls to approved heavy-duty garages did not reach the necessary majority. I'm addressing the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4049	The representative of Jonny Finstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4054	In the proposal from the Party of Representatives, which is on three points, they ask for the delegation of power to carry out the ADR control to the approved heavy-duty workshop. They also request that access to the permissible total vehicle weight change without technical change be extended to vehicles above 7500 kg and that exemptions be made to the general rule on the lateral and underrun protection of N3G vehicles – i.e. very technical and detailed transfers of authority. The Council of State has written in its reply to the Committee that there are several different considerations that need to be taken into account. The number of vehicles authorised for the transport of dangerous goods in Norway is relatively low. If it were to be allowed that potentially 2000 different actors could carry out this type of control, it would clearly have been challenging to ensure the necessary competence of control personnel and uniform control practices. The working party considers that it is safe for the State Road Service to be entrusted with the control and approval authority of the ADR vehicle transporting dangerous goods and wants it to be the ones to have this control and approval authority in the future. However, we agree that it may be reasonable to carry out an investigation in view of a possible regulatory change related to the change in the permissible total vehicle weight of 7500 kg or more. We are therefore behind the proposal of the majority committee, where the Stortinget asks the government to investigate the possibility of a regulatory change related to the change in the permitted total weight. The working party considers that the outcome of the ongoing UNECE work and the revision of ECE Regulation 73 should be awaited in order to derogate from the general rule on the lateral and underrun protection of N3G vehicles. It is important for road safety reasons that as few vehicles as possible are exempted from the requirement of lateral and underrun protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4065	This is about simplifying, making things easier, and nevertheless ensuring security and security in a good way. I record that when it comes to looking at access to change the permissible total vehicle weight without technical changes and also extending it to a vehicle over 7500 kg, it is said that it is difficult, and that it is the Autosys system and other things that make this trouble. I don't think that's good enough arguments, so I'm glad that the Right and Left say that they now want to investigate. We think it should be said that this is completely possible to do, but we're going to substantially support that proposal, because it's a little better than nothing. There's at least one assignment back to the department to work on it. So to the ADR check: I think there are skills that are just as good or maybe even sometimes better in the places where you actually buy these cars, and in the workshops that have these cars, because there are brand workshops, and so you also have a lot of expertise in the technical around the different cars. I note that the Council of State wants to continue the monopoly, and that there will still be cows and challenges to get approved and to do the things you have to do with these cars. We in the Progress Party think it makes sense to do this in an efficient and rational way, and we believe that it is no problem to be able to have that competence in many of these workshops. As in the case of a car less than 7500 kg, normal passenger cars, it is approved by workshops that have the right approval. It could certainly have been done in terms of the ADR as well, if it had been the will of the majority. I think it really testifies to the fact that you have a majority here that doesn't want to, instead of looking at the possibilities of getting good solutions. The special thing is that if a yard builds a heavy boat for billions of dollars, it is the yard that approves it, or the electrician approves when he has installed and done something in a house, or the builder of a house, approves when one has done it. I think it is quite possible to do the same with regard to these types of cars. It is also about security and security in the other areas. With regard to exemptions from the general rule on side and underrun barriers, I see that the argument is that there are concerns about road safety and many accidents. It could have been interesting if the Council of State could then say how many accidents there have been with that type of vehicle, for me known there have been very few accidents in recent years, and I feel that it is more to find problems than to solve things and make it easier for people and business. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made, or are with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4080	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4085	Today we are debating some vehicle technical simplifications, and the Committee understands in this matter that it can be practical to have EU control and ADR control carried out simultaneously at a workshop. Today it is the State Road Service which has been granted such control and approval authority for vehicles carrying dangerous goods. The centre batch considers that there is a positive simplification for those who have to carry out ADR checks on trucks, so that such checks can be carried out at the approved heavy-duty workshop. As heavy-duty car repair shops carry out EU controls today, it is possible, in our view, that they should also be able to carry out ADR controls. Of course, the heavy-duty garages in question must be fit to carry out such a check. It is also necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements, as is done to ensure that the same workshops comply with the requirements for carrying out EU controls. For the Centre Party, it is an important argument that heavy-duty car workshops have a better geographical distribution than the Road Administration’s traffic stations. This means that by adding the ADR control to the heavy-duty car repair shops, too many truck owners will have a shorter journey. That is why the proposal is no. 2 the right approach to this. We're also proposers on it, and it's taken up. But proposal No. 4, to derogate from the general rule on lateral and underrun barriers for N3G vehicles, the centre lot is opposite. Many vehicles classified as N3G are not just pure off-road vehicles. It was a tragic death accident in 1967, in which the famous actor Jayne Mansfield died, leading to the rule of underrun prevention. This obstacle is important for no more pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists to land under a vehicle. This may lead to relatively small collisions becoming serious accidents. The problem of terrain side and underrun barriers can be solved by installing foldable side and underrun barriers. Thus, the vehicle may be adapted to off-road driving where necessary. The centre batch indicates that the possibility of changing the permissible laden weight of a vehicle without simultaneously changing the vehicle technically and structurally has been applied to a vehicle up to 7500 kg. These members believe that a similar scheme for lorries is more extensive, linked inter alia to: fees, driving licences and uses. That is why we believe that the proposal needs to be examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4098	Obviously, accidents involving the transport of dangerous goods, the ADR, can have very serious consequences. That's also why SV is very skeptical about somehow liberalizing this. The trade area is complicated, and although some private workshops certainly do repairs, they do, on these ADR vehicles, it is different to have an overview of the ADR legislation and an understanding of the risks of such transport. Today, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is the competent authority of the ADR and the State Road Administration is designated as the approval body for this purpose. Both agencies therefore believe that the task should be entrusted to the public authority. SV will therefore oppose the delegation of power to private heavy-duty garages. Safety Traffic also describes that side and underrun barriers are an important road safety measure. Many vehicles are classified as N3G, as also mentioned by the representative Mossleth, not only a purely off-road vehicle. Thus, if this proposal is adopted – or had been adopted – we are at risk of getting a relatively large proportion of trucks in road traffic that do not have any road barriers. As a result, several pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists end up under the wheels of heavy-duty vehicles. It may also lead to relatively small collisions between the lorry and the passenger car becoming serious accidents. That's because the hit point is at the wrong height, that's at the head height. SV believes that there is a high risk that the proposal, should it be adopted, could mean that accidents are more serious than they would have had to be, especially for vulnerable road users. That is why the SV oppose this proposal, and we will also vote against the majority proposal that exists, and against the motions for resolutions tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4109	I understand that it may seem appropriate from the driver’s side to give authorised heavy-duty garages the authority to carry out ADR controls. However, transport of dangerous goods is risk transport, and it is very important that vehicles comply with the specific requirements of the ADR legislation. It is crucial that compliance with these requirements is ensured through the control of personnel with a specific competence. The state road service carries out such checks today. They have the necessary skills and provide a level playing field. The number of vehicles approved for the transport of dangerous goods in Norway is relatively low. If it is allowed that potentially 2000 different workshop operators are to carry out this type of control, it will be challenging to ensure and maintain the necessary competence of control personnel, and not least to ensure uniform control practices. The issue of delegating control activities to running gear workshops was assessed by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness in 2017 at the latest. In this case, new distribution must be reviewed by the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, which is responsible for the legislation. So until the change proposed by the Progress Party that the government should ensure that the ability to change the allowable total mass for vehicles without technical change is extended to vehicles above 7500 kg. I think such a solution can be evaluated, but that any change has to be made closer, as the majority in the committee suggests in the setting. If the system is to be extended to include heavy goods vehicles, this must be handled properly. The state road authority has outlined that there are many themes and different legislation that have to be considered more closely. I think the recommendation of the committee to sort out the possibility of a regulation change is reasonable. The decision whether or not to cancel any changes is expected, but the result of the operation is expected. I have also noticed that the Progress Party wants the government to make exceptions to the general rule on side and underrun barriers for N3G vehicles. The importance of road safety means that no such derogation should be made. The requirement is to provide protection to vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, against the risk of entering below the sides of the vehicle and being caught under the wheels. So I don't think we should have a change here. I also see that the Committee refers to the work that is now being done in the United Nations, and we should await it.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4128	I registered that the Council of State did not answer the question that I asked in my main post, so I ask the specific question to the Council of State: how many accidents have there been with this type of vehicle in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4133	I then assume that the representative refers to the side and the underrun barriers. We have legislation today, and it is precisely the legislation that prevents us from getting accidents. So the interesting question is, what would happen if we had changed the law? How many accidents would we have had? I don't have an answer to that. And I want to say, fortunately, because if we change that regulation, the risk of multiple accidents will increase, and that's what's the concern. So I want to show you that there's now a work going on in the United Nations. I note that the majority of the committee also points to the work that is going on there, and I think it is natural that we wait until we make completely specific changes to the Norwegian legislation. The type of changes should, as far as possible, follow international currents and should be uniform.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4140	There are quite a few already today that have this possibility, so it's not exactly that it will flourish by a lot more. It would have been funny if the Council of State could tell how many accidents there have been with the cars that have that possibility today, but I understand if the Council of State does not know about it now. However, I would like to challenge this a little bit that the Council of State says that there are 2 500 workshops that might have had to have this approval, but it is possible to find solutions that might make us have a few fewer. Doesn't the Council of State think that those who actually produce these cars, maybe they all have, the very best knowledge of how to have the right technical condition on that type of car?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4147	I did not say 2,500, I said potentially 2000 workshop operators. The representative of Hoksrud pointed out in his article that: shipyards and others carrying out difficult and required checks. But what is important is that those who carry out that type of controller have the competence. That's the point. We know that the state road service has today, and they're doing this. It is also interesting to know that there were in fact two Progress Party Councils that assessed this as late as 2017. Then there was a Minister of Justice from the Progress Party, and there was a Minister of Transport from the Progress Party. They evaluated this and said we shouldn't do it, and I totally agree with what the two Progress Party Councils concluded in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4154	It's good that the Council of State makes sure that the numbers are correct. It is 2,000, but in order to be able to drive a vehicle today and follow up on EU authorisation, you need to have the competence and you have to be approved. It is quite possible to obtain the same type of approval here, but the Council of State will not respond to whether he does not see that the companies operating in the workshop on this type of vehicle, which are largely only engaged in it, have perhaps as good or as good competence as some that are to cover all types of cars in a monopoly as the State Road Service is.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4159	I believe there is considerable knowledge, but the responsibility for this legislation lies with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. They are responsible, and they are subject to the Ministry of Justice. They saw the code as late as in 2017. They warned against it, and the government concluded on that background. I don't have any knowledge to try it out. I believe there is considerable knowledge, and I start my speech by saying that I can understand the idea that when an EU control is to be carried out, it might also be reasonable to carry out an ADR check at the same place, but I have great respect for the security work carried out by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, and I have no professional coverage to test their professional standings.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4166	In addition to heavy tankers, there are a significant number of vans and light trailers that need ADR approval, but the Minister will not allow more operators than the State Road Service to carry out ADR checks. At the same time, the Government and the Advance Party have decided only to await the planned closure of 22 traffic stations. The centre batch has entered to maintain the traffic stations. The intention of the government to shut down traffic stations and to wait only for planned closure does not seem reassuring. When one sees these points in the case, would it not be reasonable to get more control points, so that the service could get closer to those that need those ADR checks?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4171	I think that the number of traffic stations we have today, and the control capability is quite good. The size has given us clear indications here that one wants the number of stations that we have today to lie down, and that keeps us going. I don't think there's any need to implement any more control points. When it comes to ADR controls, it is the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness that is responsible, so it is not the Ministry of Transport as it is with the legislation here. I think we should respect the security work that they do. So there's a number in the hall today that's going to point out that they want a statement. This must be done by the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate, and they will have to conclude their distribution work in what is right. What I want to say is that at least it shouldn't go beyond security, and that's what I hope this hall is consensual and agreeable.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4178	Safety and security are of course very important. The Minister does not really refer to the decision taken by the Stortinget. The majority in Stortinget, i.e. the government parties and the Progress Party, have decided to wait for the planned closure. The words ‘waiting for a planned closure’ — in an election year — are heard as a push for a decision. I see that there has been a change in this matter, that the government parties and the Progress Party have begun to approach the starting point that the Central Party has always had. But what is the reason why the word 'weaned' has been used if that is what the minister claims it is? Why hasn't the bulk population decided that they should pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4185	I believe the representative Mossleth can relax when it comes to traffic stations and developments there. I think the bulk of the population is clear that we want the structure that lies there today. So we always have to be open to change in the future, and it could also happen in this area, but there are no plans to change it. I also want to say that the State Road Service has done a fairly good job of improving efficiency. Even without the structural change that was the idea at a certain stage in the process, they have carried out great efficiency improvements, with impressive results, even with the underlying structure today. There is a digitized change, which allows us to see changes in the future in time, but now the structure that is today is at the heart, and there are no plans from my side or from the government to change the structure that is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4194	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4214	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4221	We're dealing with today's Prop. 95 S for 2020-2021, Development and financing of the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region Phase 2 of Agder, and representatives’ proposals 109 S for 2020-2021, from the Gagningsrepresentatives Gisle Meininger Saudland, Bård Hoksrud, Morten Stordalen and Tor André Johnsen, on the downscaling of Gartnerløkka and holistic transport planning in Kristiansand. I Prop. 95 S for 2020-2021, the Ministry of Transport proposes partial toll financing for Phase 2 of the Transport Package for the Kristiansand region. In phase 2, a priority is proposed for the development of E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen. The expansion will take place under the direction of the State Road Administration. So when it comes to the representative proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party, the downscaling of the Gartner Loop and the whole-society transport planning in Kristiansand, it is the same route as in the Proposition, and the Committee therefore chose to deal with it in one common position. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on these two issues. There will be four proposals. The recommendation of the Committee I shall be made by the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, and the recommendation of the Committee II shall be made by the Labour Party, the Right, the Centre Party, the SV and the Left. I assume that the various parties will do their best for their proposals. The transport package for the Kristiansandsregion Phase 2 is important for the development of a robust road system in the Kristiansands region, with consistent standards and increased efforts on collective, bicycle and gangways. It also provides better access to the ferry terminal, railway station, container port, west centre and to rv. 9th@item: inlistbox It has been added to the start of the project in the spring of 2021, and it is expected that the project will open up traffic in 2025. The project has an economic framework of approximately 3.5 billion. NOK 2021, including VAT. Funding is based on tolls and state games, county and municipal funds. In addition, all VAT payable by the State to the municipality of Kristiansand and the municipality of Agder will be refunded for projects and actions in the package. There is a requirement for the collection to take place in the existing toll stations in Kristiansand. We know that New Vegar has in its portfolio to build an outer bypass around Kristiansand Center, but the Right is of the opinion that there are two different projects that will solve different challenges, and it has been suggested that these could be implemented independently of each other. It is now urgent to resolve the traffic challenges for Kristiansand, and it was also presented to the Committee on Committee Travel in January 2019. Finally, the Right will make it clear that one of course expects the State Road Administration and New Roads to have a constructive, good dialogue during the development periods of these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4236	This toll proposition refers to phase 2, which is limited to E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen in Kristiansand. Here there is an annual traffic of about 40 000 vehicles, and there is a significant problem of the queue. E18/E39 acts as both local, regional and national roads and is important for the development of a robust road system in the Kristiansand region, with consistent standards and efforts on public transport, bicycles and corridors. It also provides better access for ferry terminal, railway station, container port, west centre and to rv. 9th@item: inlistbox The project includes priority solutions for public transport and the continuous cycle expressive route. The transport package for the Kristiansandsregion Phase 1 was adopted by the Stortinget in 2009. An extension of the toll collection pending phase 2 has been made in three major decisions over the last four years. The working party is very pleased that phase 2 now finally comes to political treatment in Stortinget. We assume that any unused funds from phase 1 of the transport package will be disposed of in phase 2 and will be added to the framework for phase 2. Similarly, the commitments related to Phase 1 shall also be followed up in Phase 2. We also have expectations of an early negotiation of urban currency and that the toll system and the transport package phase 2 will be transferred to this agreement. We also refer to the current guarantee scheme and the burden it will incur on county councils, and assume that the Stortinge's decision on State toll guarantee will also apply to this project. The project now forms part of the Outer Ring Road around Kristiansand Centre in the New Vejer AS portfolio, and we expect a good dialogue between New Vejer and the State Road Service, so that the emergence is best maintained even during the development period. At the same time, we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on the scaling down of Gartnerleukka and on including it in the New Vee portfolio. We in the Labour Party disagree on this, and we believe that Kristiansand and the region around has waited long enough for a decision on a comprehensive solution for the city and its region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4257	In January of this year, I stood with colleagues from the Progress Party on the E39 west of Kristiansand and celebrated the end of the toll collection. For a party politician it was nice to see NOK 0 in the bomb, but unfortunately the Minister of Transport could promise that the joy was short-lived and that he would promote a proposal for a new toll scheme in Kristiansand. He did. A workshop in Kristiansand is the much-discussed Gartnerløkka, which we are dealing with today. So it's an urban development project, with land purchase, relocation, construction of new streets, bicycle paths, roundabouts, etc., to 3.4 billion. kr. There's a lot of money, and most of it's going to be paid by the drivers. But what is it that makes so many in Kristiansand want to go into the emergency brake? And I say a lot, because it's not like that there's a wide local connection to Gartnerleukka. In fact, Gartnerløkka is on the agenda for an extraordinary city council meeting in Kristiansand next week. Strictly speaking, we should have postponed the case until they dealt with it. I don't think that's going to happen, but we should do it to get it right. Let me explain what is the problem with Gartnerleukka: over the next few years, a four-field highway will be completed both west and east of Kristiansand. It is built at record speed due to the Progress Party and the creation of Nye Veier AS. When you get to Kristiansand, you'll be met by civil engineering traffic in the middle of the hub between E18, E39, Kristiansand Center and Rv. 9 to Setesdal. There is no possibility of reversion, and it is a nightmare as a matter of urgency. Emergency workers in the county have warned against this. The truck industry does not know its poor advice, and they have said it to the southern bench many times. So there's no doubt that you have to do more things. The Gartner Löka should be transferred to Nye Weier AS, so that they can cut costs and see them in conjunction with the Outer Ring Road, which they are responsible for building. Then you build the outer ring road first, which means that you have a bypass and relief route in place before you put the spade in the ground on the Gartnerleukka, and then you scale down the Gartnerleukka since much of the traffic will be taken by the ring road in front of the Gartnerleukka, which is located in the Kristiansand center. Even the director of the State Road Administration has said that you have to build the Outer Road first. But nevertheless, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, with the changing support of the Center Party, doubt the poor implementation plan of this project, although there are obviously better ways to do so. This admits even local wholesalers from some of these parties, who say that they want there to be a different order of development. I am also pleased that the SV and the Center Party have come to the Progress Party partly in a meeting on some point. We will subsidiaryly support proposal No. 2. from the Centre Party, which is at least better than nothing, and proposal No. 3, from SV. Finally, I would like to say that since it has been Easter, I would like to remind you of the mountain sweat rule that it is never too late to turn around, and I hope that someone will meet the Progress Party in this matter. With that, I address our proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4270	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4275	We in the Central Party are pleased that phase 2 of the Transport Package for the Kristiansandsregion finally comes to political treatment in the Stortinget. We know that it hasn't been right ahead, but even if it hasn't been straight ahead, a decision needs to be made. The proposal involves partial toll financing of the transport package. The project includes the construction of new E18/E39 with new crossings at West Strandgate, the ferry terminal and Rv. 9, part of new port ports with access to the port of container, priority solutions for public transport and the continuous cycle express route. E18/E39 acts as both a local, regional and national road. The extension is about 1.4 km and has an economic framework of about 3.5 billion. NOK, which is a high price. The expansion will take place under the direction of the State Road Administration. At the same time, this position addresses a proposal from the Progress Party on the downsizing of Gartnerløkka and overall transport planning in Kristiansand. It has been decided to build an outer bypass around the Kristiansand Centre, a project that is part of the Nye Weier AS portfolio. We expect a good dialogue with two state actors, New Roads and the State Roads Agency, so that the emergence is best maintained during the development period. The road system between Gartnerløkka and Kolsdalen in Kristiansand has an annual traffic of about 40,000 vehicles and is overloaded in rush periods morning and afternoon. This results in delays on the road network in and out of the Kristiansand centre, for continuous east-west traffic on the E18/E39 and for traffic into Norway via ferries on the E39. Few re-routing options make the road network in Kristiansand centre highly vulnerable to incidents such as road accidents, unforeseen traffic disruption, etc. It is very important to solve the traffic problems that Kristiansand has experienced for a long time. E18/E39 Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen is important for the development of a robust road system in the Kristiansand region, with consistent standards and efforts on public transport, bicycles and corridors. This must also lead to an early negotiation of the urban currency and to the transfer to it of the toll system and the Transport package phase 2. Like other transport packages or urban growth agreements, drivers are charged for urban development projects and/or for the organisation of public transport, bicycles and corridors. The centre lot will underline the need for cost control and accumulating use of money when so much toll is required in such projects. Savings must lead to lower toll charges. It is important that the E39 Outer ring road and the E18/E39 Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen are seen in a context. With the completed Outer ring road, lower annual traffic and less need for the extension of the Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen project will become necessary. We are promoting our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4292	The representative Bengt Fasterale has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4297	SV agrees with the Progress Party on this particular project that it should be scaled down, but disagrees that the project should be transferred to New Roads. So here our paths are separated – or ‘new paths’, if you want to. It is an enormously expensive project, which contributes to higher toll loads in the Kristiansand region – of course it does – and which will obviously lead to traffic growth. Everything that makes it easier for cars to get there makes a traffic growth – there is elementary knowledge of traffic theory. This project is over-dimensioned and unnecessary and does not respond fully to the challenges in the region. The zero growth target, which I hope the majority in this Chamber will continue to maintain, must also be met in this context, and if existing infrastructure had been reused, emissions could also be reduced. SV believes that state funding should be given as much priority as possible to facilitate better collective provision and to facilitate the promotion of cyclists and pedestrians, rather than motorways. There's a tendency in this hall to underestimate the bike and multiply the meaning. It continues to be underestimated as a means of transport, even in urban areas – almost systematically it is underestimated, even after the electric bicycle has been born and has been put into use to a large extent. So a little comment at the end to the representative Meininger Saudland in the Progress Party, who celebrates New Roads. That's what the Progress Party is doing, it's kind of a real-born child of the Advance Party, and what's a bit tragic is that there's a lot of people in the hall who celebrate New Roads. Here, too, it's said that it's New Roads that should have taken over the Gartner onion and taken over this extension, because they're making it cheaper. I'll deny that they can make it cheaper in an area like this. What New Roads often do is they go on a virgin terrain, without any special obstacles. So they don't have old infrastructures to take into account, which cost huge amounts of money. And if they get it cheaper, it goes at the expense of something. We've seen that so many times now, but the majority here in the hall closes their eyes for what's going on at the expense of it. There are reasons why they do it 15-20 pst. cheaper in some projects. I've shown it many times here from the pulpit, last on the E18 project a short time ago. I want to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4310	The representative Arne Nävra then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4316	Gartnerløkka in Kristiansand I think I've been to the trouble of many, to say it like that, not only for those who live in that region, but for those who have driven through at some point. There's a big traffic machine there today, and it's almost incredible that it hasn't been built out before. But there has been a lot of doubt about, among other things. where the ferry was to be located, maybe it was to be moved, maybe some other action would be taken – there has been a huge debate in Kristiansand about this. I think it's about time. With the solution that is now there, it is actually a robust road system, with solutions for bicycles and corridors, for public transport and the huge traffic of cars that goes there. Then I think that in the long run the ring road must be built. I'm going to admit that once I've worked on this Gartnerleukka case together with Kristiansand Left, we've been very interested in whether we couldn't have built it first – but it's been in the portfolio of New Roads, and it has its own life, to say the same – to see what effects it could have seen in relation to Gartnerleukka. But I think that the project that is now, hopefully, adopted in Stortinget, which is also followed up by wanting to have it in Kristiansand, is a good project, given that you finally get a good solution for public transport, corridors and bicycles. Car traffic has to go down in the long term in Kristiansand, in any case, because there are too many cars going through, and by agreeing on an urban growth rate, it is clear that a zero growth target should be introduced in Kristiansand. I think you have a huge potential for both higher growth in bicycle use, and not least in public transport. You should be aware that Kristiansand is currently leading the Norwegian cycling championship. They've gone past Trondheim, and we don't like trophies, so we're going to fight to get it back, but Kristiansand clearly has a great potential, both for lying there and for public transport. I look forward to being solved with Gartnerløkka, as a project that is now being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4325	This is a day of joy. There has long been a need to solve the traffic problems that Kristiansand and its surroundings have experienced over time. With annual traffic, ÅDT, of 40,000 and an ever significant congestion of traffic, not least in rush hours, it shows that there has been an urgent need for a solution. It affects both local traffic and, not least, transit traffic and ferry connections out of the country. With few reversion options, the road network in Kristiansand Centre is highly vulnerable to accidents and other incidents, many of which have already occurred. It is a very important project that is now finally finding its solution. It was a big story to get this project into today's NTP, four years ago. It is therefore even more gratifying that the matter can be dealt with today. I would like to remind the representative Meininger Saudland that this also voted in favour of the Advance Party in 2017, although they have now chosen to turn around. It should be noticed. Development will mean a great deal for the development of a robust road system in the region. The drive-in to Kristiansand from the west is a bottleneck, which is unfortunate for the environment, but also for the emergence. The project involves a coherent standard, the bottlenecks are removed, but there is also an increased commitment to public transport, bicycles and corridors. It's great with competition, as Gunne's representative reminds us, and it's nice that Trondheim takes up the competition with Kristiansand, but so far we find that Kristiansand leads. Not least, it will give a completely different and improved access to important connecting points, such as railway station, ferry and container ports. The completion of Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen will mean a great deal, not just for Kristiansand, but for the whole region. Let me remind you that it is prioritised at the top of Kristiansand and surrounding municipalities, along with Agder County. There have been different opinions about the project, we have to agree on that – the size of it and the order of its development. Yes, it probably also became important for the election results in the local elections in Kristiansand in 2019. There is no doubt that what is adopted today is an essential development that is needed to solve many of Kristiansand’s traffic challenges. In the case of the external ring road project, it is a good project, but it does not necessitate the Gartnerleukka project. Claiming it's a complete record bomb. On the other hand, it is right that they collectively facilitate a completely necessary, forward-looking improvement in the traffic pattern in the Kristiansand region. We are proud that what we get today can be adopted by a majority here on the Stortinget. This is a major step forward for the continent, and it builds the continent in a completely new way.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4336	Although I do not come from Agder, it has been interesting to follow the discussion about Gartnerløkka in Kristiansand. The Green Party, SV and others are against development because this is a traffic-enhancing road project. It is obvious that when the goal is to improve the accessibility, more car driving is facilitated, contrary to the zero growth target that Kristiansand and the state have committed themselves to. The Gartnerleukka project is not planned with collective fields and it clearly shows which interests have been taken into account when this is planned. It's also straight out in the proposition: ‘The project is expected to contribute to a weak increase in traffic across the region.’» Because this is a consciously increasing road project, it will be a pleasure for us to vote against. At the same time, there are other parties, primarily the Advance Party, which are against Gartnerleukka development because it is toll-financed, and because they would like to have built the Outer Ring Road. However, the external ring road is about twice as expensive as the Gartnerlökka project, at least five times as long and requires long tunnels and an unknown amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the construction phase. The external ring road provides no – zero – improvements for walking, cycling and public transport, and is also to be financed by tolls. Well, let's just think about the priorities of the Progress Party here. The Green Party will therefore vote against the proposal of the Progress Party to transfer Gartner onion to New Veier AS. This is both because we want to bring New Roads down, and we do not want to help the Progress Party to speed up the External Route. Subsidy, the Green Party will vote in favour of the SV's proposal for scaling down, but we believe that the project should go back to start if we are to have a realistic and forward-looking alternative on the table. Some stress that beautiful Kristiansand has deserved to get the transit traffic out of the center. We in the Green Party place more emphasis on the fact that beautiful Kristiansand deserves a future without spring tides and extreme weather, and in the time of the climate crisis it is simply not appropriate to build even more new and capacity-enhancing motorways around the city. The saddest thing about today's proposition from the government is the old-fashioned way of thinking. Not only shall one again finance a capacity-enhancing motorway project. We're also going to set up a tolling system where almost all of the money goes to even more motorway expansion. This is not a forward-looking transport policy. With that, I will address the proposal to the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4354	The representative Per Espen Stoknes has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4359	I agree with those who say that this is a happy day, and I want to thank the Committee for a very effective and good work. There are not many weeks since Prop. 95 S came to Stortinget, and we can today adopt this proposition. I'm very happy that we're getting a multiple, and I want to thank the parties that are behind the setting, which says just that. Within a frame of about 3.5 billion. Priority is given to the development of E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen and funds for, among others. measures for bicycles, corridors and collective actions in the Kristiansand region. I almost thought it was a little strange to hear that there are some people who think we should wait even longer for this project, which is so important. I would like to say that it is indeed time for us to adopt this, because E18/E39 Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen should contribute to a coherent standard and better distribution of traffic in Kristiansand City and even from E18/E39. The project will provide better traffic management, especially in the Rhushtida, better access to ferry terminals, better solutions for public transport and bicycle express roads. It is important to solve the traffic problems that Kristiansand has experienced for a long time. Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen and Outer Ringway are two different projects, and it has been assumed that the projects can be carried out independently of each other. The external ring road lies in New Vegar’s portfolio and will be a priority for development according to the company’s portfolio prioritisation mandate. The project is currently not a priority for development. The construction of the ring road will result in much of the transit traffic away from the current trajectory through the city. But E18/E39, as it is today, will still be the main route between inner city areas, to and from the centre, ferry ports, rail and container ports and for public transport. There will still be a need for capacity improvement in the Gartnerlökka crossing, even if the Outer Ring Road is built. The square in the center of Kristiansand is the target for a lot of road users. The Gartnerleukka project is important for good urban development in Kristiansand, with solutions for both walking, cycling and public transport. I am therefore pleased that we have adopted this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4379	The council is well aware of the Workers' Party's commitment to this matter and of our impatience to get this in place and to make it a good solution that the city can put behind. As the representative Leirtrø said, we have waited long enough. But now, fortunately, it becomes a reality. We are very pleased about that, and we are also very pleased with the work of the Council of State to get this in place. I want to ask the Council of State a little hypothetical question. If the Progress Party's proposal that New Roads should take over the Gartnerleukka portfolio, what impact does the Council of State think it would have on the progress and traffic in Kristiansand? The Council of State was so much concerned with some of it in its article, but I would like to challenge him whether he can make a little concrete what he thinks about that solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4386	This is a hypothetical question. But that means we'll put this project out in time, but we don't know when we'll be able to implement it. So now the state road system, which has worked very well on this project, is ready to go ahead. It's a good project, it's a whole project, and I think it's hard when you look at the traffic challenges in Kristiansand, to go against this project. This shows a lack of knowledge about the local situation. I would strongly warn against making decisions that put this project in real danger. It's about time, and, as I said, I really think it's time for us to get started. I find it hard to understand that someone would like an additional postponement of a project as good as a large majority in Kristiansand and the region would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4391	It was an informative answer for any Christian fellows who listen to this debate – to hear that it would then have been both shot out in time and we would not have had any time horizon to deal with. It has also taken some time to finally decide this, so I wonder if the Council of State could also say a little bit about what it is that in these last rounds it has actually taken so long that we have become very impatient in Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4398	It's a big project, and it's clear that it wasn't lucky that we got a temporary stop in both tolls and urban development. It wasn't my wish. Nevertheless, I think that I have now received a good health that ensures progress. I also think it is important that we look forward. I want us to get a city platform speech for Kristiansand, and I feel that there's a good dialogue with Kristiansand to get to it. I imagine a phase 3 -- that's phase 2 we decide here -- and phase 3 should be even more ambitious for urban development and for the development of Kristiansand, combined with an urban index. It'll be my ambition, and I feel that it's Kristiansand ready for – the positiveness of thinking about urban capitals there as well. And we're just putting NTP plans in line with the vision I'm presenting right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4403	As a responsible state council, I expect the Minister of Transport to listen to professionals when they make recordings. I'll read a quote: ‘External ring road should be built first. [[...]] There is a small area that will be heavily occupied by civil engineering traffic for a long time and then it should be taken in the right order.’» It would be thought that the quotation was taken from the local party program to the Progress Party, but it is not. It could have been, but it's road director Ingrid Dahl Hovland who says it. And it wasn't long ago, many years ago. She said that last month. So my question is, why does the Council of State listen more to local Christian People's Party politicians who want to build Gartnerleukka than to their own road director, who so clearly warns against what the government is now doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4414	As I said clearly, these are two different projects. So it might be that if we had planned, we would have built the ring road first – now the ring road is part of the portfolio of New Roads, and it's New Roads that decide when he comes. I don't know. I don't want to change the policy associated with New Roads. I think what the Progress Party has done has been sensible – to give the freedom of action to New Vegar, and that changes that policy. I'm busy doing what's necessary in Kristiansand. It will be necessary to have both the Gartner loop and the ring road in sight. What I am responsible for is to get something done with Gartnerleukka. There is no doubt that there is a need, and I believe that the representative of Meininger Saudland knows very well. When he's going from Oslo and home to Flekkefjord, he knows about some of the challenges that include: The Kristiansands region experiences, not least in the Rushtide. That's why I'm glad we're getting this landing, and then we're going to follow the development of Ringway 3. It is New Vegar who has been given responsibility for that project, and that responsibility shall lie there.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4419	It's an interesting discussion, this. We are now dealing with two issues in this setting: it is Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen, which we are now most likely to have decided to find a solution, and then it is this outer bypass, which has also been dragged into the discussion. Two state companies – everyone says this has to be seen in context. Some people are very clear that one project should be carried out before the other, but at the same time it is that with Nye Veier it lives its own life, as the representative Gunnes said. That is really quite striking. This is an urban development project with public transport, bicycles and corridors and many other good measures for Kristiansand. At the same time, it's based on tolls. If you want a cost control, will the Council of State do anything to coordinate these projects in time and space?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4426	I share the descriptive content of the Gartnerløke project by representative Fasterøne. It's a holistic and good project, and I'm sure that if New Roads land on a ring road, there will be good coordination between the State Road Service and New Roads. But I believe that the division of labour that lies there is wise, that New Vegar has been given the responsibility for the Outer Ring Road, and that it is the State Road Service that will be responsible for the Gartner Lukka. At least I won't take the initiative to change it. What I can control, and as I think I should control, is Gartnerleukka. There is a project that will need both if the Outer Ring Road is coming soon, or if it takes longer before he comes. We know that he is in the portfolio of New Vegar, so he wants to come. And I'm sure that when New Roads decide on the ring road, they will coordinate well, so that we get the most efficient and optimal development of both projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4433	First of all, I must say that it is not just the Workers' Party or the Christian People's Party who are in contact with their local representatives. Of course, it has SV as well, and we're one of the few parts that are quite common in horizontal and vertical terms. Not all parties can say that. But at least I want to ask the Council of State about this with traffic growth: does the Council of State agree that this project will increase car traffic towards the city? In that case, isn't this in conflict with the good logic we have about zero growth targets for car traffic into town?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4440	We are in fact responding to that in the proposition; we are saying that there is a marginal increase in this project. But what I think is needed with the traffic challenges that are there. That's why I think it's important that we put in place an urban index in a region that wants a urban index, to see the health in a better way. We know that we now have four urban growth agreements, with the four largest urban areas in Norway, and that has been a great success. What I experience is that Kristiansand says, is that they want to achieve the same goals. Then I think we should contribute to it, and that's what we add up to in the NTP. I look forward not least to starting urban growth agreements with the Tromsø region and with the Kristiansand region, the two regions that I now experience are really ready to get started. And what's good to see is the local enthusiasm that underpins the thinking about urban growth agreements, among other things. in Kristiansand and in Tromsø no.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4445	It's nice to hear that the Council of State is talking about the ‘entusiasm’ that's local, because I don't necessarily feel that there's a jubilant enthusiasm in everyone. Many are concerned, especially business. The transport industry is concerned that now you choose to do this, to go to Gartnerleukka before you have built the Outer Ring Road, and the consequences of it. How does the Council of State view the problem in the course of development when it comes first to expanding Gartner Loops, in view of the traffic going through and past, and especially the transport industry, which is going to be in line, cork and chaos during the expansion? If you had thought and seen this in context, and maybe built the outer bypass first, you could actually make sure to avoid that and in that way both got better traffic flow and had less problems for all those who live along the road, and not least all those who depend on using the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4452	It's always the case that when we do big projects, there are some challenges when we build and work, but I think people are doing well when they see that something new is coming, which is better. Yesterday I was delighted to join in the start-up of Bjørum-Skaret, a large project on E16. Yeah, there's going to be challenges while we're building, and while we're doing a job there, but then one knows it's getting better. That's exactly what I think people in Kristiansand are experiencing right now. I think it would have been more frustrating for the Kristiansand region to wait and experience problems – without it getting better. They know that the next few years will be a challenge, but they also know that it will be better, that it will solve the problems that are there today. My experience is that when they see that this is going in the right direction, one can also live with some challenges along the way, even if it is always demanding while the work is going on. But when Gartnerløkka is finished, I think it'll cheer the Kristiansands region.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4457	So the chord change is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4464	A party colleague of mine has referred to Gartnerløkka as the Georgian knot. It was tied in Zev’s temple that could not be tied up until Alexander the Great came and mocked it across. Now I am not going to compare either the Minister of Transport or our rapporteur with Alexander the Great, but we have at least solved a major challenge with today's decision. The gardener's denture has become harder than it should have been. Let me say that the Labour Party in Kristiansand, together with a broad majority, including the Progress Party, has concluded on this policy and voted in favour of the solution until the Progress Party went out of government and gave away the post of Minister of Transport – yes, I think it was then. Having power isn't easy, it's quite obvious. Now the Progress Party again wants us to believe that they want so much more than they did in government. There has never been paid as much toll as with the Progress Party in the government. With the Progress Party in government, expenditure on bureaucracy and administration, including in the transport sector, has reached new heights – and with a tax policy that gives huge sums to people who might buy a Porsche if they want, while ordinary people, families with children and used cars, have received tax cuts that do not even cover the increase government has introduced for kindergartens. The Labour Party will have a fair transport policy and a policy that provides better solutions for people. It's a little strange that the Progress Party will no longer work for a practical solution that gives better access to ordinary people in Kristiansand. Gartnerløkka is necessary in order for ordinary people in Kristiansand to avoid waiting for hours in line in the Banehei tunnel from Vestervejen to Bjørndalssletta, often down to Varoddbrua. The Progress Party wants ordinary people to remain in line for an indefinite period. They want ordinary people who take buses and public transport to be in that line for a few more years. It may be that New Roads can take over – or the State Road Service, as SV wants – but not the next few years. There is money allocated for starting the Gartnerleukka, and if we are to wait for the Outer Ring Road, it will be too uncertain. We will have several years of heavy load for people who drive a car, bus or truck in Kristiansand. Let's not doubt that the Workers' Party will have an outer ringing road. It has to get in place, so we get a good road network around Kristiansand as well. One prerequisite is that the State Road Administration and New Roads cooperate on planning and traffic development during the construction period and that they have close contact with the Freight Car Association in order to avoid excessive loads on commercial traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4481	The Gartner onion is the hub of the whole South. Here E18, E39, Rv. 9, traffic from the east to Rogaland, from Setesdal to the coast, from Europe to South Norway. Traffic meets local traffic at all corners of the city. Cars, public transport, bicycles and corridors, ferry and trains meet in a traffic system that is not good for anyone, and the repair of Gartnerleukka comes in twelve hours. These plans have been on the drawing board for a number of years. Today we get the key to moving on. For those of us who cross the Gartner loops daily, usually in Rushtida, this is a good decision. The South has seen that the transport effort under this government has been historic, that the infrastructure is being developed at a high rate, and that we are renewing and improving our road systems for the benefit of the whole country. This project will help to ensure that Gartner loops as a traffic nodal point provide better solutions for all users. It will also serve public transport and the soft road users. Not least, the project will provide a necessary cleanup and repair of the sea edge on this entire side of Kristiansand, and that's good. We hear that there is a problem that the outer ring road is not built before the Gartnerleukka. Yes, ideally, more people might have wanted it, if we could go back in time, until the planning work started. We can't. Now we have a ready-to-use project with funding in place, and then it's a bad idea to postpone the Gartner loop pending the Outer Ring Road. The Kristiansands region needs both of these projects, and they clearly solve different challenges. After all, we need to have confidence that the State Road Administration and New Roads can establish a good cooperation for the implementation of the projects and that they will create a good road traffic management and congestion plan for the local environment during the construction period. The Progress Party believes that New Veier should take over responsibility for Gartnerleukka as well. But we've heard more than once that New Roader says that their main contribution is when they get into the planning phase early, because there are so many of the premises being made. It will not be like this if Gartnerleukka would possibly have been transferred to New Roads now. There will only be a new postponement in many years – and still queue. I find it sad that the Progress Party, which has been an important partner in the Sørland Transport Initiative, does not support this project. But I'm very happy that we now, finally, have come so far that we get the key to moving on with the Gartner loop. It's urgent for the city's population and for everyone else who uses this important traffic hub.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4496	The debate has probably gone about as expected. I started by saying that the Progress Party celebrated that there were zero kroner in the boom in Kristiansand in January, but that the joy was short-lived, when the Minister of Transport announced that he would propose to reintroduce tolls. I also have to remind you that when you say the word ‘reintroduce’, it sounds like it should be the same as it was. But it's not. The truth is that the price will increase, and that more toll stations will be expanded in the years to come, in a ring around Kristiansand. That means everyone – whether you live in Kristiansand, outside, inside, past, just visit an aunt or drive in – has to pay, regardless of money, whether you are rich, poor, old or young. It's the middle of the coronary crisis, and when there's a lot of people who are unemployed, and there's a lot of people who really need a handshake, the government's handshake is sending a toll bill to ordinary people who have no choice but to use the car to drive in and out of Kristiansand or just over. So this is going to be a problem with the Gartner loop again. I'm going to get into it all the way to the end. They say, among other things: that this is the hub where E39, E18, rv. 9, the road to the center meets. Yes, it is. But that's exactly why we believe that a roundabout road must be in place before it is built there – as the truck industry says, as the Progress Party has said for years, and as even the road director, i.e. the director of the State Road Service, says it should be done. But the government doesn't listen to the Road Service; they don't listen to the industry. This has become a local political performance project, and I think that's what I'm looking for. Finally, we are talking about who voted in favour and against. The progress party was part of the government for six years, and there were some toll solutions we voted for, but in the same way as the Christian People's Party and the Right had to swallow camels and vote for the four-field highway, as the Progress Party proposed and wanted, and as the Progress Party has been alone to build all the way, the Progress Party also had to make some compromises in the time we were in government. I also have to remind you that this was a compromise in 2017, and it is starting to be many years ago. It has not yet been built, and it is not too late to make changes to a project that will mean a large toll bill to ordinary people – say no to the big project and build the Outer ring road first and get a sensible solution that both the industry and the road director say is the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4508	Now I'm going to start by being a little personal, because in 1996, i.e. 25 years ago, I became political advisor when Sissel Rønbeck became Minister of Transport. Then we decided quite quickly that we had to travel to Kristiansand – I believe even that was the first trip the new Minister of Transport went on – because there were significant problems of accessibility in and around the beautiful town of Southland. So we were in Kristiansand and had very interesting meetings. It was a nice right-wing lady who was rapporteur, if I'm not mistaken, Bjørg Wallevik, and we met with Kristiansand Municipality and other stakeholders to find solutions to deal with the traffic problems in Kristiansand. There was a proposition for the Storting, which was discussed here in the spring of 1997. So the solution was to expand what was then called Bjørndalssletta – Gartnerløkka, where one got a solution from the east of the city, closer to Varoddbrua, and towards the center, with a new bridge over Otra and a partial tunnel under Baneheia. It was a very good project, which was very important to solve the traffic challenges in Kristiansand. It's been 24 years since Stortinget decided to expand it. It was important to get in place, but everyone has followed developments and seen that there is a need for further development in Kristiansand. I have to say that I react a little to, among other things. the last speaker and a part that is now making it like the bulk of the population is not listening to local authorities and local interests. The Transport Committee has been in Kristiansand on a journey during this period where this was one of the themes, and I would say it was unisonous, quite unambiguous in the meetings we had in Kristiansand, that Gartnerløkka must be expanded. So who is it that listens and doesn't listen? It's now an interesting discussion. We even asked questions, because it was then clear that New Roads had taken over the Outer Ring Road, and then one is in the situation that one does not know when the Outer Ring Road will be expanded. It's the New Vei model, they decide the order and time of development. There were equally unambiguous answers back, both from the municipality of Kristiansand and from the county municipality: we can't take the chance to wait to build up Gartnerleukka. So this is a very important project. It is an important transport project and it is an important urban development project.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4515	Somebody said the Progress Party wants people in line. No, it will definitely not be the Progress Party. That's why we want to build a real highway. So even though Arne Nävra says that he agrees with the Progress Party here, I don't think we agree very much, to say that, because we want to build real roads, and we want to build more roads. In fact, we believe that building the Outer Ring Road is important. It will be very special to listen to the representative Henriksen when you talk about who is charging ordinary people taxes and other things. In one case not very long ago, it was well that the Workers' Party proposed to increase the CO 2 tax considerably, which has consequences for ordinary people who cannot afford to buy an electric car or a zero-emission car, but who have to use and drive old cars with high toll costs through the toll stations, for which the Workers' Party and the majority voted. I also think you should notice – and I think people in Kristiansand should notice – that you now have a Minister of Transport who says that he likes to look at the third package of a lot of urban development, urban growth, etc. Then everyone knows that you should keep their wallet good, because it's going to be pig-fowl for ordinary people. That's when you have a political majority who think that tolls are good to use on something quite different than roads – like public transport, bicycles and, as the Council of State said, also on urban renewal. So that means that there are others who have to pay for something that the politicians want. That's a concern, but that's the whole reason why we're a little bit skeptical, to say it carefully, has the background that now you have a majority who want to make a lot of trouble for many for a long time, and we have an industry that's very, very worried. When the representative Tveiten Benestad says we don't want to build a road, I don't think she's read the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted, where we're very clear that we want to build a road, we want to build a more road, and we want to build a lot of road. That's why we think it's smart to leave it to those who can do it quickly and efficiently, and who make sure that we get more money, namely New Roads, that can be a very good solution. That is some of the reasons behind the proposals of the Progress Party today. I also see that the left is very concerned about the zero growth target, and you should be concerned about that. And to the representative Sverre Myrli, I just want to say, when you talk about who listens and does not listen: yes, you can probably discuss that, but maybe you should also think a little bit about who you listen to and not listen to. I think that in Kristiansand there is good evidence that there are many people who are concerned about the toll burden, that the majority here on Tuesday is going to vote on, and that there is a lot of concern among many of the people who live there and are going to use that road in the future. That's why the Progress Party is for us to build a road, and we're going to build a lot of road – Arne Nävra – with four fields, but we're going to build it without tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4535	It takes time to land projects, and the history of Gartner Loops is not unique. What Swearer Myrli said and pointed out, I can definitely stand back. Many interests will be opposed to each other, and there are often long processes, but also thorough distributions behind them. The decision of the City Council in Kristiansand in 2015 shows that it was only the Environmental Party Dei Green who voted against the detailed regulation for E18/E39 Gartnerløkka. The gardener loop was also mentioned in Meld. St. 33 for 2016–2017, National Transport Plan 2018–2029, and had started in the first period. There are too many people who have been waiting for this, and that the project is now being realized is a comedy. On transition to phase 2, any unused funds from the Transport Package 1 will be disposed of in phase 2 and will be added to the framework of phase 2. Correspondingly, the obligations relating to phase 1 shall be followed up in phase 2. This is a project that solves challenges and that will provide better traffic flows, new safe solutions for pathogens and new access to the important ferry path. It is also an urban development project, which is important for Kristiansand as a regional capital. The Progress Party's proposal to transfer the project E18/E39 Gartnerløkka-Kolsdalen to New Vegar AS and to ask New Vegar AS to scale down the project will, in the opinion of the Right, put the major traffic challenges to the Kristiansand region on hold. Regulatory work and decisions back to 2015 will again be postponed. Right is the fact that now a few have to complete this project, which so many have been waiting for so many years. The representative of Meininger Saudland showed in a reply to the announcement of the director of the road Dahl Hovland in the State Road Administration, and it is in an interview at the Fädrelandsvennen on March 3rd. The director of Dahl Hovland also says in that interview that the Swedish Road Administration is prepared to cooperate with New Vegar on the project. And the Managing Director of New Vegar AS, Anette Anesland, says to the Friend of the Fatherland in this interview: ‘We don’t want to comment on the order. The projects address different needs and need not necessarily be set up against each other.» These statements from the leaders of these two organisations show the willingness to see the possibilities for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4553	Of course, SV does not want deferrals to solve the problems in Kristiansand, it should just be missing. SV has worked locally for a long time on this matter as well. But what do we do? We want a completely different project. And then we stand, like here in the hall today: are we going to vote for a project that we think is wrong, not to postpone the matter, or are we going to swallow a whole bunch of camels and go in for it? That's the dilemma. SV does not want a postponement of such a problem as that around Gartnerleukka – at all. We want a different project, with a completely different starting point than what's in the proposition. What we see is that as it is now available, car traffic will increase. One picks a solution that looks a little bit like the E18 West Corridor. We're in line. Okay, how are we going to solve this? Well, then we have to expand, right? And then car traffic increases toward the center. This has been the same method ever since the war. Let's keep going. We do not ask the fundamental questions as to whether this is the right way to attack – we do not. So there's a pretty interesting case about this with New Roads. The council now says: No, we can't attack New Roads, and one doesn't quite know when they want to start this project. This is quite eye-catching and quite revealing, but it is not surprising, because the bulk of the population has arranged it this way with Nye Weier that they have received the genius-declared portfolio management. There are many advantages to it, it also looks SV very clear, and we are also concerned about it both in terms of the state road and railway development. But there are hacks at this that are frighteningly revealing precisely in this case: when a state council cannot influence the order of two expansions that it is so central to seeing in context, we have somehow disarmed a state council. We have disarmed the political authorities from addressing key societal issues. That's what we actually did. These aspects of the case I ask the representatives of the big business here in the hall who celebrate the New Roads and that system, to sit down and think about. It's become a kind of new little state in the state, with its own life, and we're not completely capable of ruling. Was it really the way it was supposed to be when important social issues are at stake?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4562	I would like to pay tribute to the Advancement Party for their standing behind and fighting this with the establishment of New Roads. There's been a revolution in road development, and we've been together with the Progress Party about it. But when one remembers the establishment of New Roads, it was just established to be able to build up regional centres. There were tribal routes that you should focus on. So today's proposal to add Gartnerleukka, a large cross in the middle of a relatively large city, into the portfolio of New Veger breaks with all the bearing idea of what New Weger was going to be. I have to say I am very surprised that the Progress Party chooses the kind of projects that portfolio for New Roads. At any rate, one could have done so, and made it known, when one added the portfolio to Nye Weier, and at the same time added the Gartner loop to the NTP in 2017. It chose not to do so. Then there have been arguments such as that the development creates problems for industry, for road users, etc. Of course it does. I drive the route Lwigal–Kristiansand quite often. I am going through five additional roundabouts now because they are building this main road. It's really nice. Something's happening. We're getting a forward-looking path. That's the way it is with any expansion. A person cannot protect himself against conflicts or problems in the course of his life when he or she is going to have to grip as much as he or she has to. And so I think it's very worrying when you say that someone wants to build a tribal road or build a traffic pattern and make a better way out in a part of the country, that someone chooses to go against the project that stands as the number one project from a whole part of the country. Then it shows that one puts other considerations ahead of good traffic solutions. In this case, there is no doubt that the Progress Party has been clear that there are purely party-tactical considerations about no tolls, rather than providing good, traffic-oriented solutions that save lives and save the climate. I think one should be so honest to say that. I would like to hope that the Progress Party can also be honest about this in the future, so that we can see who it is that really takes into account the traffic challenges we have, and find solutions within the framework that we have at our disposal for this purpose in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4577	I just want to link some comments to this with cooperation between the Road Service and the Truck Car Association, because it is clear that it is an important issue that a person should have useful traffic during the construction period that has the least possible consequences, which I also had in my previous post. I think it's very pleasing, and therefore I want to share it with Stortinget, too, that Kristiansand's nutrition association has initiated ongoing cooperation with Vegvesenen on just how the construction period can be carried out as gently as possible, and with as few obstacles to commercial traffic as possible. The cargo car association is invited into this process, and it's a very good starting point. Then it's about one that will postpone. What is the reality of a postponement is that there will be queues over many years. What's the option if you're postponing is completely blue. The council answered my question that one cannot say anything about when it can be completed, or about an end date or a start date, and one does not know whether one can prioritize it in New Weger. That is why it is an utopian proposal that does not benefit the people of Kristiansand. Sometimes it's important to be pragmatic in order to improve the flow of Christian migrants in traffic. Standing in line is bad for the climate, it is bad for emissions, it is bad for health for people living in Kristiansand, and it is also bad for the availability of public transport. So now the buses are in the same lines, waiting to get there, and that's not a good solution. Finally, a little bit about the arguments of the Progress Party: it is almost as if they have forgotten that they have had the Minister of Transport and influence in government for seven years. The outer ring road is not something that has come and someone has found it now in 2021, it has been on the table for a long time, it too, and one has tried to find the tracks. I have not heard that something has been mentioned earlier by some representatives from the Progress Party that we should see something in the context here. No, it's been voted for all that's been on the table related to the Gartnerløkka, and that's the reality. That the Progress Party hopes to score points on this until the election campaign, I understand that, but when they all state that percentage digestion is a condition for percentage penetration in a government, it almost seems as if they are not interested in gaining influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4586	I do not think I have said that the Progress Party will not build a road, as it was referred to by the representative Hoksrud. In that case, I'm sorry. But what I have said, and as I believe, is that I think it is a pity that they do not support this project. The important thing about this project is what it will mean for our region. We'll get better traffic flows with four fields than with three, as today. We're going to have a new and better access to Havnegata. We will have new, safer solutions for cycling and walking, and we will ensure the promotion of public transport in a better way. We get a new access to the ferries, so we don't let European traffic get stuck in the first roundabout when they get to the country. Holidays will be connected to the railway network, and it will provide other opportunities to connect to the rail downstream in Europe. And we're going to clear the area along the sea edge of this part of town. For our region, it is very important that the project finally comes into place now. And for those of us who have been following this matter for many years, I have to say that there seems to be something strange about the Progress Party's reverse operation lately. When the Gartnerløkka regulatory plan was discussed in Kristiansand City Council in spring 2015, the Progress Party voted for the plan. Then there were three cost options, and the Progress Party voted for the chosen model, which was an intermediate solution and was chosen. We have heard several times now that Solvik-Olsen was responsible for the previous NTP, and that the Progress Party was also involved in promoting the Gartnerleukka project. It is true that in the 2019 local elections we saw that resistance to the project increased. Someone thought it was too big. Some thought the outer ring road had to be built first, others were generally against projects that would require tolls. But the picture that was created was that Gartnerleukka would be expensive for the drivers, while the ring road would not require tolls. It's not like that. The outer ring road also comes with tolls. There is no one who likes tolls, but it is a prerequisite to realize the project that the State Road Service is now saying is ready for pot. Then we cannot go back to the start and start a new and demanding planning process with uncertain results and time perspective. There has also been reference to the article in the Friend of the Fatherland with the Road Director's statement, and as the case-in-law, Mr Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen referred, it was also said more, and it was clear that the Director of the Road believed that there had to be good cooperation on the implementation of the two processes. We must be able to trust that. Nor is it the case that all phases of the project impose equal pressures on traffic flow and the local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4601	The representative of Hoksrud is not entirely exasperating when he reproduces his co-representatives. I have not tried at all to hide that there are different views about road development in Kristiansand – at all. I was in Kristiansand during the municipal election campaign in 2019, and I want to say that there really was a guy in the debate locally. So I don't want to underestimate that, it's different opinions. I've seen what Norway's Lastebileier-Federal has said. It's very interesting, and they've put their finger on what happens to the bypass options when you're going to start building the Gartnerleukka. There are interesting feedback. But from that to a situation where perhaps the extension of Gartnerløkka is postponed for many years – yes, then we are in a quite different situation, and there are the feedback from the municipality, at least the majority of the municipality, unambiguously: we cannot wait with that expansion, we have to get started. This is transport policy, and it is urban policy. Locally, you want to have less traffic in the center. A worker to get more bikes, corridors and public transport in place, and I want to say that it is very important to put in place an urban index for the Kristiansand region. There's a connection in all of this. But I also have to say to the Hoksrud and the Progress Party, and Hoksrud was even the State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport: Outer ring road was added to the portfolio of Nye Veier. Then one had to realize that one could get into the situation that one is now in, that there is no interconnection between a project that the State Road Service is going to build, and one that New Weger is going to build. After all, it is the whole process of thinking with Nye Veier that they themselves should control their projects and their order of development. One could perhaps say as the Progress Party suggests, that yes, then we can also add Gartnerleukka to New Roads. But the result of this is that then you will not be able to say anything about when Gartnerleukka is expanded! That's the challenge. I repeat: the Labour Party and I believe it is very important to continue the good work done to find solutions to the traffic challenges in Kristiansand. It is very important that we continue to develop, and there is no solution to delay the expansion. Therefore, it is also a poor proposal that Gartnerløkka–Kolsdalen should be transferred to New Roads, as the Progress Party argues. No, now we have to get started. There are major challenges, and the development is strongly lagging behind locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4614	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan said it very well: this is the region's priority number one. That's why I'm glad that there's such a wide majority that ends up being presented by the government. However, it is a little surprising to say that there are so many people who still want this project not to come – when there is such a clear priority locally. The reason I wanted to comment on this was because the representative Arne Nävra said I was disarmed as a government council. I didn't think I was being disarmed, was a big problem for SV. However, paradoxically, I know myself far from the armed link to New Roads, which delivers projects with lower costs than we had foreseen. If there's an area I can feel disarmed on, it's actually on the railway side, where I delivered 6 billion. kr extra in the budget for 2021, only to experience the increase in costs, not new projects. That's where we can feel it. I believe that having a policy where the ‘professionals’ control more and provide leadership is not necessarily negative for development. So the representative says Bård Hoksrud that urban growth agreements are so demanding for the Kristiansand region. I understand the Kristiansands region, which wants this. What Hoksrud then warns against is what the Progress Party has done in the Oslo region, in the Bergens region, in the Stavanger region and in the Trondheim region. It has given billions of dollars to these regions and is helping to ensure a positive development. Now Kristiansand sees that this works, this is a tool they also want. I agree with those who say that urban growth agreements are also urgent in Kristiansand. I can say that Kristiansand and Tromsø are the priority areas I think we should work on, because it just hangs together. I look forward to the reviews New Roads are connecting to the ring road around Kristiansand. There are in any case two projects we need, but I think we should be on the model behind New Roads – he has been a success. I actually want to link that success to the development of the railway, which I share with Arne Nävra. I hope some of the same tools can also benefit the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4625	I just want to make it clear that we support this project. We say no for New Roads to take over the Gartnerleukka project. Why do we do that? That's because we don't know when this can happen, when New Veier implements that part of his portfolio. At the same time, we believe that it must be a minimum when implementing such a large project, or two such large projects, in Kristiansand, and it is decided that they should be implemented when this decision is taken, that some people will be able to coordinate it. It has to be a minimum that you can demand it. That is what we are promoting in our proposal, this must be coordinated. Then you refer to two directors, who say that this project can be carried out independently of the second project. Then the other one says that this project, which I am not responsible for, should have been built first. Then someone has to go in and control it. We believe that to be a minimum. In the Centre Party, we are in principle opposed to the uncritical financing of urban development by tolls – we are in principle opposed to that. It would have been a lot more tidy to call it something else and finance it another way. It is true that when such projects are built elsewhere in the districts, every route and cycle, every pavement and every extra bridge is peeled away to reduce costs by this 20 %. They're being peeled off, no one is discussing such solutions. The sum is $3.5 billion. kr. It's three times as much as it's inside the NTP to fix RV. 3 from Tynset to Elverum, or rv. 15 from the Stryn Mountain and down to Otta. There is a lot of money, and then it has to be a minimum that we from the Stockholm pulpit can say that these projects have to be coordinated. You have to get costs down. When I have listened to this debate, that's exactly what it's all about: how much are we going to contribute to this project – which people are going to finance with tolls? It must be allowed to ask. But I repeat what I said at the beginning: we support this project, because now we have to finish once.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4639	The representative Gisle Meininger Saudland has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4644	Quite briefly, there have been some interesting things in the debate. Both from the Right and from the Labour Party, it has been said today from the pulpit that this is an urban development project. Yes, there came the jam the cat out of the bag, because that's what you've feared locally: that it's an urban development project, not a road project, and that the drivers are going to be with and pay for everything else. It is also said that it has a road safety dimension and that it leads to lower greenhouse gas emissions. I cannot believe that Gartnerleukka leads to lower greenhouse gas emissions. The state councils admitted that it is going to increase car traffic and, according to NTP, there is no particular dimension in road safety either. What I wanted to ask you at the end is: what if the City Council in Kristiansand next week makes a different decision, what do we do? Do we take the matter up again, or do we say that we should build no matter what they decide locally? Next week this is on the case map there, and we should be in agreement with those who sit locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4653	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4670	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will organise the debate as follows: 3 minutes for each party group and 3 minutes for members of the Government. Furthermore, within the allocated speaking time, up to six lines of response will be given after contributions from members of the Government and those who have to sign up to the allocated speaking time will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4677	Then we go a little bit west and a little bit northward, but we're on the same road number, E39. We're getting closer to Sandnes and Stavanger, and we're talking about a road section from Ålgård in Gäsdal to Hove in Sandnes, which is actually a road section that lies within the urban growth agreement with Nord-Jären, and that's how you wanted that expansion to be organized. The development is divided into three sections, and that is the one section of which the management group of this urban environment agreement wants to advance, so they get started. It's fully regulated, and they'd like to be allowed to advance it, so that they can build it out, because there's a lot of enthusiasm for getting to that road section, and there's a big need there. Not least, the representatives' proposals also refer to the need for new activity in the area, and that is something we listen closely to in these corona times, for activity we must have, including in the construction industry. The most important thing, of course, is that a road project should be built, but it is not quite straight ahead. We are told by the Minister of Transport that we need a new decision in Stortinget, because we have made a decision earlier this year in the State budget that there should be no shooting. The majority would like a case to be submitted by the Council of State and the Ministry to accept this advance on the Hove-Osli section. So there's a majority for this project, and it's been great to work with everyone in the committee. A minority, SV, is opposed to pre-shooting this section of the road, and they will probably come back to their proposal during the process. I think it's important for the enthusiasm of North-Jearen to be able to build this project. That's the most important thing about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4686	In fact, it was with a little disbelief that I was told by the rapporteurs of the Workers' Party on the North-Jear and the county rapporteur in Rogaland that they had received a negative response from the Ministry of Transport to request to advance the work on the E39 Hove-Osli section, an enquiry that was justified by a unanimous decision in the Northern-Jear Environment Management Group. The rejection came already three days after the Ministry had received the request from the management group. Looking back and after the proposed new NTP for 2021-2033, it is incomprehensible that such a refusal was sent. The proposal for a new NTP had to be dealt with in the department at that time, and that the Hareide Council would at all be exposed to this battle in the Stortinget, is incomprehensible to the Workers' Party – even if I wonder something conspiratory about it could be that the government would give the Advance Party a cheap point in the struggle for the voters of the harvest. In that case, there was no point that was particularly positive for neither the government nor the Progress Party, as it was about at the same time delivered an almost equivalent proposal from the Workers' Party. If the Ministry had welcomed the call they received on 2 February, the call for tenders could already have been well under way, but the joyous thing is that there is now a broad consensus in this Chamber that the project can be implemented, thanks to good rounds in the Committee. Of the Committee's members, only the SV's representative is opposed to this shooting. This is, of course, well received in the north of Europe, because there are great opportunities for local entrepreneurs to take action. Local contractors in Rogaland and this region are very competitive in tenders of the size of this project. The downturn is all the greater when the rest of the road between Sandnes and Ålgård is not within the scope of the proposal for a new NTP. This means that the local commuter bottleneck is only moved southwards, to Osli, where this sub-project stops, but we'll have to assess that in the treatment of the new NTP. A bad start came to a happy end so far. With that, I recommend setting, which the Workers' Party is part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4701	There is a broad majority that supports the possibility of shooting and that the government can facilitate it, so I'm going to try to be brief. This committee is not always short! I am very happy that we have now got this in place. The stretch is a priority in the government’s proposals to the national transport plan, which was submitted before Easter. It's also an important prerequisite for us to be able to discuss shooting. That's why I think it's good that we now get this land in Stortinget. It is a local desire of the urban growth agreement steering group on the North-Jear to have advancers. At the same time, it's like shooting is an exception, it's not the general rule. That is why I think it is also important to deal with these types of proposals and requests with care, and in this case there are good reasons for doing so. It is precisely to get ahead of a project that is strongly lagging behind, which we can speed up in this way, and which can also produce good effects in the local entrepreneurial market. I just want to underline one more thing before I round off: it is important that one in this type of project, which is so strongly linked to the urban growth agreement on the North-Jear, is very careful to clarify, as we do in the setting, that portfolio management should apply. The fact that a person contributes to the enhancement of the portfolio also gives some obligations relating to how a person manages the portfolio management and the projects contained in the overall portfolio within the framework of the urban growth agreement. But it's nice to be part of a broad majority on the Stortinget that makes it possible for us now to advance that distance.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4712	Now I'm almost just going to be happy and happy, because it's incredibly good that there's now a large majority of the committee that gathers about a good decision that hopefully will lead to the local speed of excavating the excavators. I have experienced great will from absolutely everyone to come up with a good solution. Although this case is two different representative proposals, from the outset there has been agreement between the Labour Party and the Progress Party that we must not allow party politics to go into this and vote for our proposals, but strive to find a common, good consensus. I'm not going to spend a long time on this post and do a long day longer, but I'm genuinely happy and proud that this is now getting through. It shows that the benefits of grassroots exposure locally that lead to a case being raised and brought into the landfill are adopted and of importance. There has been a great deal of commitment here from the population, business and several local politicians from several parties. The road project isn't very big, it's only a few kilometers, but it's almost ready for the pot, it's fully regulated, and they're eager to get started. The project is within the current national transport plan, and the Stortinget has clearly shown in the past that it wants to realise the project, and when the Nord-Jär urban environment package management group now signals that they want to get started, there is nothing to wait for. Had it been up to the Progress Party, this project had been initiated long ago, for the prioritisation of the urban package projects takes place and is decided locally by the Steering Group. They're the ones that determine the order. I know that Mr. Pål Morten Borgli, Vice-President of Sandnes, was present at a meeting of the steering group as early as 2015 and proposed to give priority to the E39 Hove–Ålgård at the top and set the cycle trail in fifth place. Unfortunately, that proposal was voted down by the others in the steering group. But today I'm not going to spend a long time digging in history looking for scapegoats. We should be glad that there is now a great deal of will both at the board of directors, at the Stortinget and at the government. Then we cross our fingers so that the excavators can get started quickly, and I hope that local entrepreneurs who are now kicking in the gravel, with little reserve order, will be able to be competitive and win tenders. So now it's only for the government to ‘fine’, to help you get on with it, and that you can finish the tenders, so that you can get the excavators and planters started and start building as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4727	It's in and out just to ‘fine on’ – that's what was the end here. This is a very important project, it is clear, when the E39 between Ålgård in Gjesdal municipality and Hove in the municipality of Sandnes is part of the coastal route between Kristiansand and Trondheim. The section is divided into three and the section Hove-Osli is fully regulated. That's a lot of the others, too, but we can come back to that on a later occasion. The most important thing is that the local commitment to implementing the project within the urban environment package is large. It is true that when locals have an opportunity to find a solution, when they promote a solution to a project that is agreed on and manage to find funding, it is very gratifying that the Stortinge is so clear and demands that this should be achieved. The size has been clear that you want to realise the project and note that there is a similar wish at the management group for the Nord-Jären urban environment package after the revision of the project portfolio that was made in December. That's a very important assumption. According to the Nord-Jären Urban Environment Package Management Group, the cost of the sub-section is approximately 560 million. kr. The project is fully regulated, ready to be launched and has the necessary funding. It is important to clarify that there is a framework underpinning the package, with portfolio management and with regard to the prioritisation of the project. It's very clear to the management team, and they're aware of that. Pre-shooting requires local authorities to prioritize this project in relation to other projects if there are exceedances on this or other projects in the package. It is very important to have it as a basis for the decision being taken. Finally, I would like to say that there is a difficult situation in the construction industry in Rogaland. There are certainly several other places in the country as well. But it is clear that pot-ready projects that are waiting, while there is a low activity in the market – it is therefore very important. In many other debates here in Stortingen, we're doing what we can to get the activity up. Here's a win-win situation. So here you can build a road and get people to work at the same time. It would be very positive in the region if the Stortinget seized and agreed that the extension of the Hove-Osli route on E39 could be started as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4744	I guess it's a little disrespectful to say that, but I feel a little bit like ravishing the transport committee. Now, as most in the committee – and also here in the room, and that is probably almost the same – it is clear that SV will always see a road development in the light of climate and land requirements. It also applies this time. The first thing we have to ask ourselves is whether road traffic can be replaced by another environmentally friendly means of delivery in each specific project. For the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger, it can actually. There's railway running in that corridor, but it's old and single track. Could it be a thought to build it out first, maybe, and then scale the road as needed afterwards? No, that's not happening. I just came back from the southernmost parts of this distance, now a few days ago. It's being built, and it's being hammered, and a huge four-field road is being blasted out in the same corridor – fine to knock your legs off under the economy of the railway and to knock your legs off under all climate and land budgets. So what about this distance on E39? Well, there's a railway section here, too, namely the Ålgård Railway. Why is it not rehabilitated in the context of this project? It should be a little late today. No, so once again, the majority of people go on some kind of autopilot on motorways – four fields and high speed. On 5 April 1921, the Ålgård Railway was adopted by the government and put forward as a proposal. So there was passenger traffic here until 1955 and freight traffic until 1988. It's not that long since I was on an inspection there as well and took the mandatory dresin tour a good piece. But this shouldn't be a museum track, in my opinion. There shall be a path in use. The original trajectory of the track can be used without the need for extensive expropriation. It will not conflict with other interests either. It's right there. The reports prepared for the Ålgård Railway have underestimated the traffic base significantly. Among other things, the Royal Park has not been designed, nor have the outlet shops at Ålgård or the factorycut sale to Figjo. In addition, there is significant population growth in the area and many young people. There is strong local uprising about the Ålgårdbahn, which I think my party colleague Eirik Faret Sakariassen can justify in later articles. What about the E39? Well, SV thinks that reopening the Ålgårdbahn could mean a sobering expansion of E39, with a good repair and new construction of a two- and three-field solution with a mid pull. This is a traffic-proof solution that saves farms and a lot of food. But what happens? The majority of the population turn their backs on climate, nature and the protection of valuable food soils. I take up the proposals for SV and I want to announce that we are opposed to the recommendation from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4761	The representative Arne Nävra has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4766	The government's proposal to prioritize new transport projects became known on Friday 19 March, when a new national transport plan was presented. In that plan, the first six-year plan for project E39 Ålgård-Hove in Rogaland included government funds. Tolls have also been added to this project. It has been suggested that the funds for the first six-year period will go to the first sub-section of Ålgård-Hove, which is just E39 Osli-Hove. The aim of the project is good visibility and high traffic safety. A regulatory plan for Osli-Hove has been adopted. The Northern Year Urban Growth Agreement Steering Group would like to give priority to this route for start-up as soon as possible. This was expressed to me in a letter dated 2 February 2021. The priority given by the steering group to E39 Osli-Hove is thus consistent with the government’s prioritisation of this project in NTP 2022-2033. In my response to the steering group I said that I would come back to the further process for the E39 between Hove and Ålgård after the transport plan has been processed in Stortinget. I suggest that the Stortinget in this case wants the Osli-Howe project to be launched as quickly as possible. The government will follow the decision of Storting and come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a cost framework for the project as soon as possible. We know that this is a project that has an estimated cost of over 500 million. kr. I haven't received an estimate of the project from the State Road Administration, but we know that it will be in size equal to half a billion. When I have received and completed it, I will return to Stortinget as soon as possible – in full respect of the decision frame we have, that cost frameworks of more than half a billion are to be decided in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4781	The decision of the North-Jear Environmental Package Management Group, which decided to accelerate this route, was unanimous. It includes the State representative in the steering group, and at that time it was the working road director who was the state representative. The State representative has a great deal of weight in the work of the steering group and therefore the steering group expected this to be implemented. Is it possible, in an understandable and concise way, to explain to Stortinget what kind of authority the government representative in the management group has in decisions of the management group?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4788	The state representative in the steering group is our agent, and the fact that the road director has that kind of role in several urban growth agreements shows the importance. In my answer, my point was that we wanted to put forward the NTP before we give a signal about this. I have in retrospect had contact with the Swedish Road Administration. This is a good project. It is clear that there will be too much work to get a cost framework in place, so we can get started. I am pleased with the signals that have arrived locally and regionally, but I have been busy following some of the leads that I have given to the Stortinget, and that I also believe the Stortinget is very concerned about: We have a code, and that follows us. That's what's at stake here. But I'm happy with the solution we're going to end up with in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4793	Thanks for the answer. Speaking of the arrangements imposed on the Ministry by Stortinget: In response to the Committee on these proposals, the Council of State writes that it is necessary to clarify whether an external quality assurance, KS2, of the project, although the project has a price estimate below the KS2 threshold. The rationale for such clarification refers to the fact that the guidelines for actions in urban environmental packages which, in the natural context, have an estimated cost framework exceeding the threshold, state that it is to be implemented by the KS2. The undersigned does not fully understand the context here and is afraid that a process of KS2 will lead to a further delay in the implementation of the decision in this case. What does the Council of State really mean by this statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4802	This is completely in line with the procedures we have. As I said in my post – and I want to tell the representative Langholm Hansen – this is a project that we think is good. When we receive the cost frame from the State Road Service, we decide if there is a need for KS2. I'm actually optimistic that there won't be any need for this right now, in line with the dialogue we've had with the State Road Administration. They feel safe about this. The number, the cost frame, which I've been given very informally, is 575 million. kr. KS2 will probably not be needed. It is a good, reworked project. The plan is clear, and it is also an expression of the state representative’s participation in the decision taken there. But it was quite natural for me in the answer to say that we are submitting NTP before we come back to this matter. I am very pleased with the decision that Stortinget seems to be making, and I am ready to follow it up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4807	I like very much what the Council of State says both in its statement and in the previous two questions. There are a lot of people now standing in the gravel and ready to get started, both politicians and not least workers in Rogaland, who are struggling, and where there is a little too little activity, and you need to get started. The rapporteur, Stanley Wirak, has said to Sandnesposten that he hopes that we can start work on this side of Christmas. I'm a little bit so that I'm a little bit more impatient than that, and I also perceive that the Council of State is that and has been positive to get solutions here. Does the Council of State think it might be possible to get even faster? I think there are many now who really hope that one should stop standing and kicking in the gravel, and actually get started and start digging in the gravel to build the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4814	I share the enthusiasm of the representative of Hoksrud to get the project started. So this is a project that has a cost framework that means that it has to be adopted by the Storting. I have to get a cost frame, work it through and come to the Storting as soon as possible, and then I am dependent on what the Storing does. I can't postpone it here, but I feel that there is a good goodwill in the hall, and if we get it adopted within a relatively short time, the state road system will be able to get going very quickly. I have had a dialogue with them, and as Langholm Hansen pointed out in a previous reply, the Swedish Road Administration has also pointed out the possibility that Stortinget is now running for here. So I think there are few obstacles to going on and getting a progression in line with what a wide plurality in Stortinget wants today.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4819	We are pleased that the opposition is now making sure that Hove-Osli can get moving quickly. But the traffic challenge is from Hove to Ålgård, which the Council of State was a little bit involved in its contribution. On the Osli-Figjo pair, the regulatory plan has been adopted and a compromise has been reached with which everyone can live. Now the State Road Service is trying to rematch and wants a solution that is worse for the living environment and agriculture. What does the Council of State think about this kind of rematch?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4824	It is quite right, as the representative Fasterøne says, that the Osli-Hove sub-project has an adopted regulatory plan. But for the rest of the project E39 Ålgård-Hove, the stretch Ålgård-Osli, there is not a complete consensus on the choice of trajectory. The municipality of Sandne has made a plan decision for an alternative with a long tunnel for E39 Figgjo-Osli, and here the State Road Administration has complained about the case. The background to that complaint is that the option with a long tunnel in the municipality of Sandnes provides costs over fixed management targets at E39 Ålgård-Hove. Provisional estimates suggest that the steering target can be met if the recommended route to the State Road Service, with a short tunnel, is chosen on the route Ålgård-Osli. This schedule has not been completed, so I do not feel that there is any rematch, but it is not a unity that has been landed. There are different assessments related to what's the best solution here. I have not made a decision on this. I'm just saying that it's not unity that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4831	Just a short follow-up question: does the Council have any perspective on the time required to reach an agreement on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4836	I share the point here that it is the soundness of this stretch that is challenging; it is not just the relatively short stretch of Hove–Osli that we are now solving this April evening in Stortinget. It's the wholeness of the distance that's a challenge, related to the queue challenges. I hope we can get a consensus. I feel that it's good progress, and it could be important, but it's precisely based on unity and the NTP proposal being there. In our NTP proposal, the Hove–Osli we have funded so far, but I hope for progress in the planning process. This is part of the urban growth agreement in the region, and if we get an agreement also for a longer distance, that's the possibility of positive progress for the whole distance. But as of today I will not go further than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4843	I think we can say that no matter which trajectory is finally chosen, even for the remaining distance, it will go with a lot of cultivated land from Ålgård to Hove. Then my question is, and I think the council knows what I want to ask about: why isn't the Ålgårdbanen at all included in the assessments? So here's an opportunity to see a railway operation at the same time as scaling down this large four-field project into two- and three-field roads. As far as I know, there's an ÅDT in the south of about 8,500, and it's increasing to 12,500, or something like that, in the north. It's in good shape within what a two-/three-field path can do, especially if you see it in connection with the development of the Ålgårdbahn. So my question to the Council of State is, why has he not dared to go into the railways at all? There's no mercury there, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4853	Some of the challenges for the railway have been mercury, and in that budget I had the joy of presenting as my first, it was really the railway I was prioritizing, by well over 6 billion. kr. I actually took down the roadways to make room for it. I'm willing to prioritize the railway, but I also believe, as I know this region, that this is a road route that needs to be prioritized. We're going to bet on the railway, but I still think it must be both – and close to this. I would like to say that this is a stretch that is within an urban growth rate, which is within the zero growth target, so local and regional they have been able to prioritize this project and yet now the zero growth target. That's one of the reasons why it's right to prioritize this project. So I'm concerned with the same thing as the representative Nävra: we also have to be willing to bet on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4864	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor hereafter also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4871	Finally, one can ask questions about road development is the best way to achieve the zero growth target, but we can discuss it another time. I'll follow the lead that my colleague Arne Nävra was in, exactly Ålgårdbanen. Not long ago, I asked the Minister of Transport a question about this theme, because Bane NOR is considering taking the Ålgårdbahn out of the national network. If you do that, you will have all the possibilities and all the hope that you can realize this distance once, to open the Aalgårdbahn again. So, as mentioned earlier, there is a potential of 600,000 travelers every year, and travel estimates are also estimated to be higher, up to a million. Here's the number insecure. And the cost level is likely to be between 750 million. DKK and 1 billion. kr, a little bit depending on who you refer to. Then there is also, as the representative Nävra was inside, local enthusiasm for this. Gäsdal municipality once had an enthusiastic spokesperson named Olaug Bollestad, who then put her as a vocabulary candidate for the first time, made the choice that this was an important thing. I would recommend the Minister of Transport to discuss this matter with Bollestad, who is now the Council of State, just to get all the good arguments for the Ålgårdbahn. I don't know if the Minister of Transport himself has been on a threesome, but it's still possible, because from March 28th, the Ålgårdbanen's friends will arrange for a threesome. It's nice. I have done it a few times myself, but I would prefer that one had used the path for something else. Because it's an advantage that you don't have to bandage the area that is currently being used for something else. In many parts of the stretch, there is the potential for putting hamlets without significant expropriation, which I'm counting on with Bård Hoksrud will be busy, so you don't have to take a lot of vulnerable areas. It's important, and so I really hope that the Council of State doesn't agree with Bane NOR, that he's following up. And I would like the plural to be with SV and say that one should keep the Ålgårdbahn as part of the national railway network and help to plan to reopen, to build, Ålgårdbahnen.
ParlaMint-NO_2021-04-08.ana.ud161e4884	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
