ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7208	I'll open the 55. Meeting of the National Council and welcome all of you very cordially. The official protocols of 53 and 54. Meeting of 29. In January 2010, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported to be Gessl-Ranftl, Fürntrath-Moretti, Großruck, Steibl, Mag. Stefan and Brosz. [[09:08:17]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7245	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Dr. Peter Sonnberger has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mrs Claudia in his place. Since the election permit is already in place and the said person is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I would ask the author, Mr Zanger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7284	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7302	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7321	I very much welcome the new Members. [[General condolences.]] [[09:09:14]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of Johanna Dohnal
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7351	Ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you to rise from the squares for a minute's memory. [[Those present rise from their places.]] As you all know, last Saturday, for all of us, very surprising and far too early, an Austrian woman, probably one of the most distinctive personalities of political life, left us forever: Johanna Dohnal. It was only a week before that that she celebrated her 71. birthday. Johanna Dohnal's life was a moving and filled in in every phase. Growing up in simple circumstances, she found her way into politics already in young years. From the beginning it was the women for whom she committed herself with full force. In 1979, she was appointed by the then Federal Chancellor Bruno Kreisky. In the following 16 years, she was able to bring so much on the way for women in Austria, first as a woman's state secretary, starting in 1990 under Chancellor Franz Vranitzky as the first woman minister in Austria. The achievements and successes of Johanna Dohnals were enormous, from the protection of violence to the equal treatment laws, from childcare and the compatibility of work and family to the promotion of the many dedicated women's associations. She has always sought cooperation with women of all parties. She has prepared Austrian women for equality and has given them self-confidence. Johanna Dohnal was deeply impressed in her basicity. She was convinced of her cause, warring and inflexible. She has become the model of many women in her political consequence and passion. The name Johanna Dohnal will always stand for a dedicated, contentious women's policy. Today we remember a woman, a politician, who many – especially the women – will still think in respect and gratitude for a long time. Our compassion applies at this hour to the family of Johanna Dohnal. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7411	For this meeting, I will present the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister of Defence Mag. Norbert Darabos will be the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Doris Bures, the Federal Minister for the Interior Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter will be the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, Family and Youth Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner and the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich will be represented by the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Michael Spindelegger from 7 p.m. [[09:12:33]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7473	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: "Banks to the cash register – instead of the broad mass!" The current hour is transferred live by ORF. First of all, Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7503	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Today’s current hour on the topic of “Banks to the cashier – instead of the broad crowd!” is designed to deal with the fact that, in particular, those bank managers and bank directors that have led us to the crisis must also be held accountable. It is quite welcome that the Federal Government now, as it seems to be, wants to agree on thinking about a solidarity with the banks. But there is always a fear when one hears so vague statements from the government that in the end nothing will come out and neither fish nor meat will be the result if the three country elections that stand at the door are beaten. That is why we want to know the subject today. A bank tax, a solidar charge for banks is correct and necessary. After the banking crisis in America, the Austrian bank managers tried to act as if the American market and its speculations were responsible. We know today that this could not withstand reality. These were the speculations made here in Austria by the Austrian banks, which ultimately also led to the crisis. We have had the situation that not only the Hypo Alpe-Adria, but also the municipal credit has finally entered the pleite and the state had to capture it. With regard to municipal credit, today we have a responsible member of the board sitting here on the government bank, namely Mrs Schmied, who ultimately also held responsibility for what should not be hidden. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The causes of the banking crisis were certainly the highly risky and speculative business of the Austrian banks, especially in Eastern Europe. In Eastern Europe, €300 billion of loans were granted by Austrian banks without adequate collateral. Here in Austria, small and medium-sized enterprises would wish that they would have received loans or received loans in the past today, but Basel II makes this almost impossible in reality. €300 billion has been granted in the East of Europe with no guarantee, 30 percent of these loans are now liable and will appear to be falling in the near future. That's the reality, and that's exactly what it can't be! That is why a further increase in the crisis for local banks threatens to occur, if 200 billion euros may be missing sometime in Eastern Europe. I already hear the Federal Government saying: Well, the Austrian taxpayer has to be asked to cash back! I say: No, it has to be handled differently! The state guarantees and aid to the local banks now amount to €34.8 billion, and the emergency nationalization of local credit and the Hypo Alpe-Adria has already cost us a lot, namely almost €2 billion. That clearly shows the exemplary inability... – Yes, the right one is talking in between! [[Abg. May. Ikrath:... FPÖ!]] This shows the exemplary inability of the bank directors and bank managers. And just there you should sit down! Please, how can it be that banks today receive tax money and state aid and that bank managers still still partially cash between €2 million and €4 million a year? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There should be a salary cover for bank managers. Once again, one has to call the responsible ones to account for the pleite, who have irresponsibly suffocated and playful in the sense of a casino mentality. - That's exactly where it's supposed to be. The bank managers seem to have learned from the crisis very little or nothing. It's going to be further than if there wasn't a morning, more wild than ever, with the money of the savers, the small businessmen who urgently need credit and then get washed away. I think it takes real rethinking. The salaries of the directors are simply stunning. In 2007, the First Group Chief Treichl received 4.72 million € Gage, more than the 127-fold of Otto Normal Consumer. Herbert Stepic, head of Raiffeisen International, is estimated at over €2 million. These are exorbitant sums to think of: If tax money flows as a state aid and the citizen has to pay for losses from banks and for security of banks in Austria, then there is also a demand for a scheme. These are just two examples. With the help of taxpayers, all continue to cash on with joy and mint, for shops that are quite reminiscent of a hat game. I would like to address some more news – that has nothing to do with the banks – that has something to do with the Federal Government: At present, Cosmos is in favour of giving up over 1,000 employees, but I do not hear from the Federal Government what initiatives could be taken to secure and help these 1,000 employees in the workplace. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are considering how to give the banks additional billions of money, because we are considering how perhaps we can help a state like Greece, which has gone to the point, with financial resources, but in the crisis issues in Austria we fail and are not ready to help. In fact, the banks in Austria have a very, very important function. They justify our financial system, they should manage savings deposits properly and correctly, enable lending, ensure payment transactions. But I think that what the big banks have done on dizzying speculations has long left their core business. And that's exactly what the problem is. Those banks receiving state aid should return to their core business. That is exactly what the government did not demand and did not implement. I think that is why we need a strict separation of banking and investment business. It must be over with imagination salaries and bonus excesses that take place. In order to finance the huge sovereign debt, banks, which are ultimately guilty of having slid into this crisis, should also make their contribution. [[Abg. Bucher: The banks or the bank managers? That's a difference!]] They are intended to make their contribution, and we therefore need to define new rules of the game so that Austria and the Austrian economy do not break down in the crisis case. Every company, but also every bank can go into the crisis, but it must not be the case that Austria and the Austrian economy are being driven into ruin, just because banks in Eastern Europe have built irresponsible losses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have therefore long, also supported by requests, unfortunately without support here in Parliament, a banking bankruptcy system that deals with it. It needs a bank bankruptcy order! And yes, if banks receive state aid with tax money, the state should also take over shares in banks for security reasons as long as the banks have not repaid this money to taxpayers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] More than one and a half years after the start of the self-debted banking crisis, the consequences must finally be met by the banks, in the form of a solidarity levy. This is precisely what we are talking about, because the bill is not just what the Federal Government has decided so far to carry the taxpayers, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, namely the service providers in our society. Let us look at the balance sheets of the large domestic banks, and this is exactly what this is all about. We demand a solidarity levy for the large domestic banks, namely for those banks that have over €30 billion in annual accounts. The small banks, which are supposed to have a competitive advantage and should also be excluded, are not those banks that would have been negatively affected by fund speculations and the money of savers. If those large banks would have to pay a solidar charge of 0.1 percent, as we imagine, then of course you would also have to make sure that not the savers and the customers of the banks are then asked to cash back again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It then takes a competition authority, even the pressure agent, if a bank believes that it will have to recalculate this 0.1 percent solidar charge to the customer and the end consumer, that it is said that the participation capital that the banks have received will be deducted again. I say that it is necessary how many other measures would be necessary. The small and medium-sized businessman in Austria, the medium-sized group as a whole, has more and more problems today, and we have to pay off there: away with the credit tax, away with the bagatell taxes, but also a suspension of Basel II, so that our entrepreneurs in Austria finally get back to credit and have a chance to invest again, to compete with international competition, and especially when we are experiencing an economic upturn again, to benefit from it. If they do not get loans as they do today, then once again we move into the phase of an economic upturn, they will not be able to benefit from them. I say to you that it is five after twelve on this question, we must act.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7606	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr Vice-Chancellor, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7627	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We face a very big challenge at the beginning of 2010, namely after the 2009 crisis year, which certainly brought about the biggest crisis after the Second World War for Austria, which we have dealt with very well. After we have mastered the crisis, with which tax reform relieves people and has also taken the necessary steps to strengthen the economy, we now, from 2010 and the next years, have the task of generating growth and supporting and promoting growth with a prudent budget policy. (Deputies of the Greens hold a table with the title ‘basic security (SPÖ/ÖVP) – people (green)’.) Growth is on the one hand the key to returning to an orderly economic form that self-driven for supply and demand brings things back to their lot. On the other hand, growth, supported by fiscal policy measures, guarantees that unemployment will fall again with measures on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the issues which are pending and whose discussion is now needed in the context of budgetary consolidation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7658	Mr. Vice-Chancellor, one second! The Greens have shown her transparency, I'm trying to get her to remove it again. Thank you. Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7676	I love Taferln, but they do not contribute a millimeter to Austria's progress, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Keeping Taferln is too little – working for this country is recommended, and we do! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: We have a refusal to work! Not a trace of work!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We made a point landing in Austria in 2009 with budget planning, better than other countries in the European Union. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have created the basis for doing the right things in the future. And now it's about the question – and that's what I'm saying: How do we get down from the high deficits, from the debt we had to deal with? But this is not only to support the banks, Mr Strache, but also to relieve people of €3 billion and to make money available on the labour market to an extent that is never before, namely for short-time work and combating unemployment. This has brought us debt and deficits, and now it is about: How do we get back from the deficits and debt levels? Here is a clear commitment from my side as Minister of Finance: We will have to deal primarily with the issue of the reduction of deficits in the expenditure structure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Expenditure-side rehabilitation – in this respect I am also in agreement with the Federal Chancellor – is the priority for the reduction of deficits in the coming years. Now, of course, the question is: Who will help all to reduce deficits and debt? Also a clear commitment: All sectors of society will have to do with all systems and economic sectors, including banks, their fair and fair share. We will not be able to spare anyone, it is a national common task that we stand before. This work has begun, we have held a discussion on crisis management and the reduction of deficits, and from my point of view, the question of the bank's solidary levy is a first important point on this path. Why? – Because it is necessary to set the right signals. But there are certain key points that must now be discussed in the Working Group on the Solidar Transfer of Banks. The key points are irrevocable and must be the guide to the further debate on the establishment of this solidarity levy. First point: It must be ensured that the measures planned and put in place do not lead to a credit clamp, to no shortage of the loan offer for young domestic farmers and for the economy in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. We've got it! There's a credit terminal!]] [[Abg. Booker: Do we have it, is there!]] Second point: It is necessary to ensure that this solidarity tax is not overrun to customers and will not be taxed on savings account and credit. This too is an essential point in this discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: Mr Strache, you have spoken of the banks and you have said that you can let them all go into bankruptcy. [[Abg. I never said!]] – It is important to keep the Austrian banking system in place. That is why this Solidar levy should not be an additional risk to an already strained capital base of the Austrian banks. This is also an important cornerstone for the working group and a subject in the debate on how it continues. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a fiscal and financial decision that will be discussed, erased and decided at the end of the day, which will not be misused for populist purposes by banks. We have great responsibility for this. The Austrian banking sector guarantees the blood circulation of the Austrian economy. For many savers, for many borrowers, especially for the young, it is extremely important to have a well-functioning banking business, and that is a value that cannot easily be put at risk. Therefore, the implementation of this bank solidarity levy will still take time, it will take very intensive preparation and technical work over the next few weeks to contribute to the consolidation concept of the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are the key points that I can imagine and which we should focus on in the debate, in addition to the principles? First of all: There are the proposals, also mentioned by you now, to attach the solidar levy to the balance sheet amount, i.e. to the classical banking business, to the credit and deposit business. From my point of view, the crisis has taught something else: not to fix the levy on bank business, with savings deposits as a basis, but to attach it to speculative products in banks! That's the job we have. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Therefore, one should consider how it is possible to use derivatives, off-balance-sheet transactions, to fix the tax there in order not only to obtain money, but also to have control effects, control measures against speculation. That's how I understand smart taxation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: I would also like to have in this context, after it is discussed internationally and Europeanly, that we in the government, together with the banks in the sense of the Austrian savers, are developing the issue of deposit guarantee in parallel to that. We need a start to new targets in deposit guarantee – I also discussed this with the banks – in order to go straight away with this package, in the sense of the security of savings deposits in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! We have enough to do in the next few weeks and months. I am working with the two State Secretarys Andreas Schieder and Reinhold Lopatka to submit the expenditure framework for the Republic of Austria to the High House in due time by the end of April. We will do everything we can to consolidate the budget on the expenditure side, which is due to deficits in reducing debt levels. If you know today that interest payments are already making up more than the educational budget and interest rate trend is rising in expenditure, up to €10 billion per year, it is a core task to bring Austria's finances back into line. The message is clear: Everyone and everyone in this country will have to make their contribution to this national challenge and task. The banks are a singular issue, but all the others will also have to learn this load together. We are ahead, Austria is better than other countries. If you see what's happening in Greece and what's not working, that's supposed to be a lesson for us. I don't want Austria to be Greece. This is the task that we are facing and that we have to deal with together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7819	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. As First of all, Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e7843	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I find it exciting when a speaker speaks of the FPÖ or the BZÖ about banks and the word “hypo” does not happen because that’s basically... – They are all so nervous, that’s incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's where you slept!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He said yes!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Watch out! Watch out!]] [[Abg. Strache: Swallow the sessions permanently and don't get anything with it!]] Obviously I stooped into a wasp. Instead, you talk about a banking bankruptcy order. The problem would not have been that the hypo goes bankrupt, the problem was that because of the liabilities the blues and the oranges – whatever color they had just taken over – for Carinthia, Carinthia would have gone into bankruptcy. And for the federal states, we really don't have a bankruptcy order. [[Abg. Neubauer: At BAWAG all Austria would have gone bankrupt, you dreamer!]] It is the responsibility of this federal government that we cannot let a federal state go bankrupt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] That is why you should go into and think about banks, which is your responsibility, also with regard to the budgetary situation in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: At BAWAG all of Austria would have gone bankrupt!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The speaker of the Austrian Foundation Party is speaking!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Stiftungskaiser!]] The bank tax is not a criminal tax, as some believe or some here are populist, nor is the bank tax not a savings book or credit tax, but the bank tax should lead to the banks making the same fair contribution when it comes to who pays for this crisis. [[Abg. Neubauer: Stiftungs-Krainer!]] That is why the bank tax is applied – and no longer and no less. The question is whether this replaces any other point, because when we talk about the banking and financial crisis, that is only a small part of what is necessary. State Secretary Schieder has already presented the Social Democratic Package for the Financial Market in September, and there are a number of points that have already been dealt with in part, but also many that are open. It's not just about the question: Who pays for this crisis?, but also: What do we learn from this crisis? What do we need to change as legislators here? It is essentially about the need for new rules, new regulations, new rules for banks not to enter into speculative transactions, banks to become more crisis-resistant, and that, in case of need, there is either a bankruptcy possibility or new security systems, so that the taxpayer does not always have to jump in just because stop speculating blue or orange with a bank and lead entire federal states to the edge of the ruin. [[Abg. Vilimsky: That's incredible!]] In addition to the new rules that we need for banks, it is also a matter of supervision, of strengthening supervision, of which, in other words, the Austrian National Bank and the Financial Market Supervisory Board together have better control of the banks and also of greater opportunities to force banks to comply with the rules and laws. That this is necessary, we have seen not only at the Hypo Alpe-Adria, at the Bank in Carinthia, but also now, because of the media reports, that in Lower Austria, for example, housing funds have not only been speculated to the extent of hundreds of millions of euros, but also, apparently, a Landesbank operates highly speculative business over Ireland, which endangers the bank itself and is therefore dangerous to taxpayers. I hope that, as in the past, the financial market supervision and the Austrian National Bank have the full support and back cover of the Minister of Finance, even if it is almost against their own uncle, because it is necessary that we have a reasonable, well-functioning supervision, which makes sure that such things as they happened in Carinthia can no longer happen in the future. This is not a substitute for the rules and for supervision, but also no replacement for tax justice. There are still a number of open points, and it is good for the banks to make a contribution to the reorganisation, but this is not a substitute for a financial transaction tax, which is intended to restrict speculative transactions, and this is not, above all, a substitute for the growth tax or speculation tax, as you would like to call it. You can't say it often enough: If you go to work for your money, you pay a lot of tax – if you earn the same about speculation, you pay little to nothing today. This imbalance must be brought to fruition, and that is why we will continue to say by Social Democracy: Yes, share profits, speculation profits should also be taxed as if someone went to work for his money. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8023	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8044	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is no doubt that 2010 will be a key economic and financial year. After the crisis fight against the previous year, which was carried out very successfully by the government, with the stabilisation of the financial markets, with the economic programmes, with the impulses for growth and employment, there can be no warning yet, because as long as unemployment increases, one cannot escape, but we need to prepare the transition from these growth impulses – growth also in the future, but that is necessary – to consolidate the state budget. In fact, Hans-Werner Sinn, head of the Municher ifo Institute, was right when he said that all the countries of the world – but there was no alternative – have used government debt as an instrument to combat crisis. No, that's it. But since debt is spent on the future, ladies and gentlemen, and since no one here in this room can answer that perhaps once that happens what an economic magazine wrote a few weeks ago: “The treacherous generation” – meant our children and grandchildren – must be countered here, and that will be the primary task of this year. By the end of the year, the Minister of Finance will present a consolidation programme which will undoubtedly be a national effort – no question at all. No one can tell me I'm getting away from it. [[Abg. Bookbooker: stress wave, new taxes!]] Of course, Mr Bucher, the banks will also have to make a contribution, not at all, but it is crucial how this is implemented. The Minister of Finance has repeatedly declared, again today: It must not be that the small saver is taxed, it must not be taxed on the borrower, and there must be no growth brake, because we need growth. What does this mean, ladies and gentlemen, my dear friends from the SPÖ? – That means there will be no bank tax à la Faymann, based on the balance sheet sum. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very interesting! What does Mr Cap say about this? That is why Mr Faymann is not here!]] I do not know who you have already looked at a bank account – there are to a great extent the savings deposits and, of course, the loans inside. That is, a bank tax on the basis of the balance sheet amount is taxing the savings and taxing the loans, ladies and gentlemen. We would have a second savings account tax – the Kest we already have – and a second credit tax because we already have the credit tax. It must be something completely different. It must be what the Minister of Finance has announced, namely a stability levy, which will be applied where speculation operations take place. This was ultimately the occasion for the crisis – a worldwide speculation bubble. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen – I say it again –: The whole will be part of a comprehensive consolidation programme. [[Abg. Bucher: So a tax package!]] It will be prepared in good time by the Minister for Finance, we will discuss it in detail, but at the end of the day no burden can come from the small saver and the borrower, the house builder. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing I have to say, ladies and gentlemen! I had a little suspicion, of course, when I was able to understand this banking summit, that the fact that Mr. Bank Managers have given in so easily can also lie to the fact that they have thought: [[Abg. Booker: Yes, exactly!]] We'll swallow it now and give it to the savers and borrowers immediately. – That cannot be it, and we will not allow it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] What we need to avoid future financial crises is a barrier to speculation. If a tax is to have a control function, it must not be used in the case of savings and loans, but rather in the case of speculation, and that will be the stability levy à la Pröll and no bank tax à la Faymann!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8167	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8188	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, should you not take the word “banking” into your mouth – or can I remind you of the BAWAG or of the municipal credit with Claudia Schmied? It would have been It's more reasonable you wouldn't say it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] Mr Finanzminister, you have given a big announcement here of what you want to do, how you want to reduce the deficit, how you suddenly stand on the bank tax, although the Members from your own ranks are doing something quite different, but you have not mentioned in any word how this should be done. That sounds so great what you're saying here: reducing deficits; But you do not say why you do not tackle the administrative reform, why you do not tackle the health reform, why you do not want to bring the Court of Auditors' proposals, which have been on the table for years, into implementation. You don't say all that and then you talk about a bank charge. To be honest, Minister of Finance, no one takes you seriously anymore. If you have seen your facial expression in the course of the banking summit, it was perfectly clear that you are not at all behind this matter. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as the Member of Parliament Jury, Linder and Dr. Strutz.]] This has a single reason: You want to calm down the population now because you know that in the population the waves are going up when it comes to banking discussions. That's your only reason, you want to calm down, you don't want to worry your coalition partner any more now, and you're presenting Mr. Faymann as if he had no idea of it; you don't want it all. Further, you want to wait for the next elections, and it's nothing but that after the election a huge load package will roll on the Austrian population, because you are unable to bring certain things to the point. If you now quote – point 1 – this bank tax must not lead to a credit clamp, then finally tell us how you want to achieve it! You don't want banks to turn this bank tax on customers, but you don't say how you want to do it or check it. Of course, they want to keep banks in shape – point 3 of course. Yes, you do! And all this takes time. There is now a working group or a working group, because: If I no longer know, I have a working group! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Just to your memory: For the bank package, which was decided here a year and a half ago – in September 2008 – it took exactly one week for you to be able to bind a 100-billion-€ package. Now you are not able to define clearly in a week what this bank tax is to look like without burdening consumers and therefore small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jury.]] Do you know why you are not definitely behind all your statements that you are currently making? – Your colleague Mag. Ikrath tells you about the “Sparkassen Zeitung” that you have no idea of this matter on and for yourself, Christoph Leitl of the Chamber of Commerce says the same, and also the gentlemen from the Raiffeisen Board say nothing else. So basically, it's just about calming the population down. If you really want to do something for the Austrian population, then strengthen the middle class! Strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Make sure that a bank tax – or whatever you want to call it – does not result in this being turned on to commercial customers, on small and medium-sized businesses! [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] I'm already excited about how you're going to check this out, because you didn't say that. They're not going into detail anywhere. You don't even go so far as to think about what other possibilities there are in these areas. They would only have to look at Sweden where, in the 1990s, there was a bank emergency fund, which made it clear that banks were setting up an emergency fund because of their size and that they were able to pass it on to the economy with favourable loans. This has led to the relatively rapid success of overcoming this banking crisis. You are not even ready and able to do that! If you really want to do something for the Austrian economy today and also want to ensure social peace in our country for the next years, then you are forced to finally rethink economic policy now. Support small and medium-sized enterprises! Do something! I say it to all the audiences here if you haven't understood it in recent years: The only ones who work for the Austrian middle class and the small and medium-sized enterprises – a single party in this House – are the liberals. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You will also have the opportunity to choose next week in the business chamber elections by supporting the middle class. Then you have the opportunity to set clear signs here, so that these lies, which Mr Leitl, President of the Chamber of Commerce, always gives an end to what is happening on every occasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8315	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8336	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would not recommend any economic operator to rely on the competence of the Freedom Party on economic issues; that is, I believe, a very serious risk. It also testifies to a very bad sense of humor – a very bad sense of humor! – if you stand here today with a chuzpe and say: Banks to the cash desk instead of the large crowd!, while in Carinthia one has a billion to be held responsible. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Gaßner and Hagenhofer.]] A billion tomb – this is not to be compared with the BAWAG at all! This is from the scale like Mount Everest compared to Wilhelminenberg, what you have done there – over a billion special taxes for all Austrians due to the mismanagement of the Carinthian Freedoms! That must be said once. You should really be ashamed of what you've done. If you talk about it, the consequences would have to be taken, the responsible ones would have to be asked to check out, then go to this federal state, make sure that those responsible – namely, Dörfler, Scheuch and Co – withdraw, and do one above all: open your party finances, until the last cent, otherwise never take the word “tax payer” back into the mouth again, never again! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who is the leader of the Green Party in Carinthia?]] If you're trying to make fun of the green Carinthian head of the party, that's at least the only one who's a little bit of an investigation in this country, because all the other parties are stuck in this swamp. [[Abg. Kickl: He's making fun of himself!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are the Greens in Carinthia at all?]] It's actually a swamp. I recall an oral opinion which the ÖVP-Par has given to his tax advisor in Carinthia and for which he has charged an amount in the order of €6 million. I mean, what's that down there?- Oh, my God! I'm really asking you: Does that have anything to do with normal politics? I think it would be time – when you talk about banks and the whole dilemma and disaster here – to work out your own sins, the country of Carinthia and the hypo, and to protect and protect the taxpayer from a huge burden. – That would be the first point, by the way, that has nothing to do with the financial crisis at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many people are currently suffering from quite different concerns and problems. It was discussed here about a bank tax, with no one knowing exactly what that is. The ÖVP is proud that it's not a Faymann tax, from the SPÖ you don't know what it is – it's a big blackbox, and while other things... – Aha, you roll out a transparency now, yes, okay. [[The members of the FPÖ, under the approval of the other FPÖ delegates, roll out a transparency with the inscription “Linkskrawall und Raufrei: Öllinger is always there!”]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the green policy! This is the green attitude!]] They are obviously very proud of the fact that your third President of the National Council – ours is not – can be celebrated at one of the largest network meetings of right-wing extremists in the Hofburg and weakens his presidency in return. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I don't think that's funny, and I don't think the population is.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8473	I'm trying to re-roll the transparency after it's shown. Mrs. Club President, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8491	There is, by the way, a free demonstration right in Austria. Every person in Austria can express his opinion on the street. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We are still proud of that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Perhaps you should draw your attention to the real problems of the Austrians. [[Call the FPÖ:Tell the oillinger!]] We have had a dramatic development in social data since the last year. – Karl Oellinger, by the way, a Member of this House, who is very committed to these people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] From last year there are more than 8 per cent more people seeking emergency aid, more than 100,000 unemployed, more than 100 000 people who have to live in fortified poverty – dramatic figures against the background of a government that is actually refusing to work: today a National Council meeting with just two government proposals, and what does not happen in the area of basic security and social security, is now filling volumes. [[Call the ÖVP: And the opposition?]] We don't want to let that happen. We want to talk about not just basic security for banks in this area, but also for people. That's something very important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many people at the moment do not know how to get over the rounds over the next few weeks. – Do you know how much to receive as a social assistance worker who has two children? - That's exactly 97 cents a day! These are the concerns that many mothers and many parents are facing at the moment every day. And we talk about banks, about a black box – nobody knows when that comes in what form – instead of devoting ourselves to the real and real problems of people. I strongly urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council – Mr Faymann is not here – to accept these people once again and to present a proper budget in which you will not only have a cut in expenditure – and that is to say: Social cuts – talk, but actually help these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8584	Next speaker: Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8606	That's true, Minister of Finance. – Mr Pröll has just meant, now it is finally getting more reasonable. We will not take out transparencys and not knock cool sayings, but we will deal with arguments, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. – You are right, Minister of Finance! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] A little more than a year ago, we decided on a bank rescue package in the House – just to remind you: the opposition was with us at the time – because it was a serious concern for us to secure savings and maintain the cycle of the economy, which is ultimately secured by the banks. But, ladies and gentlemen, our demands, which we raised at the time – for example, the limitation of manager salaries, the non-payment of bonuses and also more stringent control by the Court of Auditors – have not been met at that time. We've been promised. Let us remember the statements of the then Federal Chancellor and the then Minister of Finance: This bank rescue package will be a business for the state! Let's remember! [[Abg. A minus business! It's a minus business!]] Today we have to think about how we ask the banks to pay a bank tax. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, not only a year ago it was so, but also today the population, the representatives of the House are also being brought to light by the government. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. They're hiding the truth from us. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] No one understands why we are talking about a bank tax at the moment, rather than dealing with the debtors, with the trigger of the financial market and banking crisis. These are the managers, ladies and gentlemen, and not the banks. [[Abg. Kickl: But... to control!]] That is why no one understands that you are not prepared to limit the bonus payments, to tax the bonuses more more, as is done in France, Portugal or the UK, for example. We asked you, Minister of Finance Pröll, why bonus payments cannot be limited or taxed. Your answer was: Boni are there as a motivation for the employees. That would be inappropriate intervention. – This is Their attitude, Minister of Finance, is what the true culprits are about to do to trigger this banking scandal. That is your attitude, and we find that objectionable, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, it is not at all necessary for us to talk about a bank tax now. It is not necessary at all because you meet the wrong ones with it. It is really a pity that no one on the government bank has ever worked in the private sector. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe he'll open an inn!]] [[Abg. Street: In the guest house maybe an inn!]] Unfortunately, the two gentlemen have never been to God for just a second in the private economy, because then you would know – yes, Mr. Strache too – that in the economy we always beat and pass all the burdens on to the price immediately. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Oh, you're one of those!]] It was the same with the banks. – Yes, but it is, that is reality! If you now ask the banks to check out, then the individual processing fees, account fees et cetera will be increased. However, these have already reached a height in Austria, which is no longer to be surpassed Accounting costs of 165 € per year – in old currency the 2 500 schilling of account management costs at a bank – or payment fees of 7 €. [[Inter-remark of vice chancellor Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl]] Can you imagine paying in old currency 100 Schilling for payment fees, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a scandal!]] This is currently required by the banks. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The modern road robbers are these!]] If you introduce this bank tax, it inevitably leads to interest going up. You know, Minister of Finance, the interest rates will rise in the middle of the year, that is the reality. Banks will pack in this €500 million burden, and this will ultimately have to pay every bank customer. This will have to be paid to all those who have an account at a bank, and that will ultimately have almost all employees in Austria. It's the completely wrong way you're going. Punish the debtors – these are the managers who are responsible for these speculation transactions – but do not punish the banks with a tax that the customer ultimately has to pay! That's the completely wrong way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Go the way through reforms, don't cancel taxes again! You want to open the dam here for a new load wave that will come to Austria in the next few months. Banking tax is the first step. Next, the middle class will come; there will be a medium-sized tax. Don't forget what you said from the government bank. You made the promise: With me as Minister of Finance, there are no new taxes in this legislative period! – Don’t become unbelievable, stick to it and don’t burden yourself with any new tax ideas! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8797	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8818	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Bucher, please, as a Member of Parliament, you yourself have agreed to the tax freedom of stock options – half a million schillings are tax-free each year for managers, and today you stand here and say you have to do something in this area. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] You might have thought back then, as Your group was involved in the government! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] But back to today's topic: Of course, the Freedom Party has a problem when it believes its own propaganda. On Friday last week, she presented the topic for a current hour – so to speak, the propaganda that the government is only on the banks' gang, and only do what the general directors of the banks order. - It's bad luck, Mr. Strache. On Monday, the opposite came out of what you expected, namely that exactly this funding contribution was decided. [[Abg. New builder: I'm not sure!]] [[Abg. That's what we're looking at! That's what we're looking at! That's where the Federal Chancellor lies again in front of the ÖVP!]] The same advice applies to you as to potential voters: Faith You're not the propaganda! Faith You're not your own propaganda! Let us come to the core, namely: What does such a banking tax look like? Maybe once to the basics: We have a tax situation in the area of financial capital, which has led to increasingly lower tax revenue in this area. The Austrian National Bank describes this – let us say – with restraint with the wording: The taxes that banks place in relation to profit are low. We are in the taxation of banks in the lower middle of OECD countries. The reality is, of course, a much wider one. The Austrian banks, all banks together, pay – lastly in 2008; these are the last data we have – only € 256 million in taxes, which was greatly reduced in the case of a profit that was – 2008 – no more 5.7 billion, but still in billions. There was so much money there that in 2008 €1.5 billion could be distributed to dividends. It is reasonable that this part of the Austrian economy contributes to the reorganisation of the budget. I think that's a fair way of dealing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's talk about the counter-arguments. A counter-argument is: This will be paid by the savers and borrowers. – I would like to warn against such argumentation. I recall what the EU Commission has imposed on punishment in connection with the so-called Lombard club. To believe that we have a market situation in which the banks believe that if the Minister of Finance wants money from them that will take account of their customers, it would trigger such a antitrust approach in a more intense way. I can only warn that, as a bank representative, one goes to the public with such arguments. You might have to read these arguments again if the next time you examine whether the competitive situation is actually the way you imagine it. We want a tax on the banks – none on bank customers and borrowers! [[Abg. May. Stadler: How is that supposed to go? Tell me how it's supposed to be!]] The height two: The cycle of the Austrian economy. You can say at every tax and tax, that pays another one. Everyone could say that a wage tax reduction, for example, makes no sense at all, because in the end wages are not sufficiently increased. One could argue the other way around and say: No problem, a wage increase, pays the consumer anyway! We will tell the wage negotiators in the Chamber of Commerce! – These arguments are not the right ones. Now to what is possible, to the volume. We just heard: Payment fee 7 €. On 1 000 € credit, 0.07 percent tax would be just 70 cents. – Please leave the church in the village! Argument two: The banks will move their headquarters to Bratislava or elsewhere. – I would not recommend Athens, but I would also be careful with Bratislava, because they will have to explain to the rating agencies who will assume the liability if the next time a protection package is needed. They will have to explain how well they are lifted at the new location, perhaps in Ukraine, Kiev, or Bucharest. My recommendation to the banking sector is – and I believe the directors have complied well –: We're making our contribution! It is a fair contribution to budget recovery, and it is a contribution that everyone has to make, and that is a good thing. This is not a Pröll tax, it is not a Faymann tax, it is a fair contribution from the banks; this is stupid for my colleague. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8907	Mr Grillitsch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8928	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that we can show once again for people at home in front of the screens the differences between those who roll out posters and transparencys and show taferls, and those who clearly realize that these are not solutions as we now need them in this phase. That is why I am glad that we have a government, in particular a finance minister, who is really serious and sensible about the problems of the people of Austria and is trying to find solutions, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are currently experiencing an economic crisis, and we have to say every day that everyone needs everyone, even across party borders, across professional boundaries, because there is only one goal of keeping people in employment, of keeping jobs, of people in order to obtain income and thus also of strengthening purchasing power in our country accordingly. This path has in particular been taken last year by our Minister for Finance, namely to keep people in employment, and this has also led to the various programmes which the government has provided to ensure that there is a hole in the budget that must be reorganised. In this respect, it is too little for me to think, ladies and gentlemen, only about rehabilitating the budget by introducing new taxes. That'll be too little. I am glad that Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance said first of all that they want to try to reorganise the budget on the part of the budget, that he does not insure people by thinking about an asset tax, about raising a basic tax, about the introduction of an inheritance and gift tax, which has been heavily burdened by young entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs in the founding phase. I'm glad she's gone. Even as a head of state went out to find the rich, and then found himself in the form of a foundation, this did not please the Federal Chancellor or the Minister of Finance. In the end, we can do away with such contributions, ladies and gentlemen. Now it is very concrete to think about how this solidar contribution by the banks affects. If the banks say that they are making this solidarity contribution, then yes, but this must not result in a new savings account tax being effective or that there is, for example, a fixed credit threshold, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the heart of our country, which provides the safest jobs, especially in the regions outside on-site. But this must not lead to a growth brake, ladies and gentlemen. And gentlemen! And if the working group comes to the conclusion that this solidarity levy leads to a speculation tax at last, then we welcome it. But otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we reject new taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the decisive thing now is that we are pooling all the powers at government level, even here in this House, and seriously and seriously thinking about how we can reorganise the budget on the one hand and how we can prevent damage from being caused by new taxes and insecure discussions at the economic location of Austria. In this sense, I cordially invite you to a reasonable, cooperative, sustainable cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e8989	Mr Kurzmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9010	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The initiative of Heinz-Christian Strache and the Freedom Party today has a priority objective: It is not the Austrian people who are supposed to pay the bill for the banking crisis, but rather to pay those who are guilty, namely the bank managers who have caused this damage and who are supposed to contribute to the reparation, so to speak. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I am therefore saying this so clearly because the previous speakers, especially on the government bank, seem to have misunderstanded some of the things about the free initiative, or also deliberately wanted to misunderstand. It was the banks themselves, ladies and gentlemen, who have speculated responsibly on the American capital market and who have unsecured billions of loans that fall on their minds today through East operations into Ukraine. It is simply not to be seen that the Austrian population should now face up to this failure to account for bank managers. It is enough that the Austrian taxpayer must already spend billions of euros in order to finance even this bank rescue package, which has been launched. Many generations in this country will be burdened financially. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, what we call for is that the large banking institutions, the balance sheet amounting to more than €30 billion, pay a solidarity and are therefore also asked to pay for the cash. This special levy – Heinz-Christian Strache has carried it out – is to be abolished for at least ten years and is no more than 0.1 of the balance sheet amount. So that's a reasonable contribution from the big banks. An essential condition, however, that we attach to this demand, is that the banks should not put this levy back on the small savers, on the simple savers. This must be ensured by the Ministry of Finance and control by the Court of Auditors. The fact that the government parties do not support this initiative, but that, as we have heard, they want to move to the long-term bank is nothing new for us. Of course, we also see ourselves confirmed by the state banking holding company, which in December last year already called on the Austrian Federal Government to fundamentally reorganise the banking landscape in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, it naturally fits into the picture that the Austrian people are quite indifferent to you, but the Federal Chancellor very much wants to support Greece in dealing with the Greek financial crisis quickly and in a solidaristic way. Ladies and gentlemen, have you forgotten that the Greeks have already been caught twice in falsifying their statistics? Have you already suppressed the fact that, with the help of an American bank, loans to Greece have been concealed and have passed the European Union? Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals are demanding: No Austrian tax money for a country that lives permanently over its conditions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call: Unbelievable]] No Austrian tax money for a country that does not save and is constantly giving light to unsuspecting or negligent bureaucrats in the European Union with false figures! Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to Social Democracy in Styria, a chapter where the Social Democrats have long lost their social competence. This shows the processes of the so-called Reich tax that Franz Voves called for last year. However, this also shows that this foundation was not a joint foundation, which is supposed to be dissolved until the end of this year. [[Calls: ‘Applicable’]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising that this company construction is being built. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] - Yes, Mr Faul, I understand you're getting nervous. First, the assets of the SPÖ-Stiftung were transferred to the company of a Vienna lawyer and should now flow back to the SPÖ, in the form of a research company called Spectro GmbH. Ladies and gentlemen, these are tricks, these are tricks that have nothing to do with socialism. Also, the outsourcing of a printing plant to Slovenia does not serve the Styrian workers. Thus, social democracy in Styria, as well as in the rest of the federal states, becomes totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9081	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9102	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already impressive with which the so-called Freedom Party turns out here and speaks about the banking situation. [[Call: What does “the so - called ” mean?]] If you're talking about Greece, I'll advise you, don't look so far, you're Steirer, Carinthia is much closer. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What you have delivered there ridicules every description. Yes, you may be sorry about the merger you've entered now. [[Abg. Neubauer: Take care of yourself and not us!]] It is quite right, however, because it is the merger of blue-orange bankrotators, with certainty. If Landeshuptmann Dörfler stands up and demands money from all Austrians for what Blue-Orange has to answer there, now only more blue – what's your name? FPK? – then it's a cleanery! I'm even wondering what you've done, that you've turned out. But be it. Let's go through the stories! You caused billions of damage in Carinthia. It's no longer bringable either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, the problem with the bank package will be primarily the hypo and may be less with the others, and you have to answer for that. That is why, at the end of the day, this bank levy may even be a good thing, because the sector at least has to pay. But, in fact, you have to ask yourself: What crises were crucial for? There was a financial crisis that caught the other banks a little bit. But there has been a political crisis, a political-ethical crisis in the state of Carinthia, for which you are responsible, because you and your people have put into the bank who have collaborated with the Croatian Mafia to speak in your Jargon. [[Abg. Weinzinger: A madness!]] [[Abg. You're a flawless man!]] Yes, that is exactly what you do not want to hear, but at this point you are to catch, and we will not leave you out because you are not the alternative to this federal government. There's no state to do with you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must be pointed out in good time that you do not have anything to say in even more federal states, because what you have done there is enough. Let's end now. You can beautify yourself with the title that you are no longer the party of the decent and discreet, but the burned down and the refugees to strip your texts there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Yeah, what do you want to do? – The party of traders with citizenship, the party of illegal party financing and so on and so on. We will take a look at all of this in the committee of inquiry. This is well lifted up in the hands of the Greens. It will also be possible to see what contribution other parties have made. Let's go on the real subject. [[Abg. Strache: “Let’s go to the real topic”!]] Yes, you have set the subject. They're totally unbelievable. That's the difference. I believe that what Mr Vice-Chancellor said has quite a hand and foot. You can admit that. Let us look at what the Federal Chancellor has so far proposed. Of course, it makes sense for banks to contribute to the costs of combating the crisis. – First principle, of course. Secondly, If this is done via a bank levy, it must be intelligent. Third point: Unfortunately, what Faymann proposes is unintelligent. It is also no wonder that he has approached this topic again in the “Kronen Zeitungs” manner and at the level of the reader’s letter. A total balance sheet tax is exactly the wrong one for this purpose. We need a taxation that achieves reasonable effects, which achieves certain balance sheet positions there, that the so-called speculation is pushed back and similar things more. So yes to a reasonable bank charge and no to the Faymann proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last: You don't have to look so far and travel so far, Mr Vice-Chancellor, let's see how fast we get in there. The Austrian banks have been locating everywhere, which is what the problems are about. So, as innocent as you do here, you're not. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I didn't say!]] Ah, that's good, he didn't say. As well as all Austrian banks have locations, daughters in the tax havens. Yes, if we finally decided on a tax law that concerns those companies, but above all because of the banks that these daughters have there, to the detriment of the Austrian budget, to the detriment of Austrian taxpayers, then we would have achieved much faster. Further: First of all, it is natural to ensure that the banks once repay the amounts from the bank package. That is why we can talk to you about when the optimal time for this bank levy to be introduced is. Last: An intelligent bank levy is the solution. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The right time is then given when the banks finally paid back what they received from the taxpayer, and then we can meet where we negotiate reasonable things. That's what we're available for, as you know.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9249	Now comes Mr Mag. Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9271	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! The spectator will ask himself today what to really keep from your announcements. It is said that there is a bank tax that will not be Faymann's tax and will not have to pay the bank customer under any circumstances. Capabilities Please explain to the viewer and the lady viewer on the television, who should pay them then, if not the bank customer!? - Santa Claus? The bank fee? Mr. Matznetter? – None of the three, the bank customer will pay it in the end, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Finanzminister, you have the courage to say: No, the banks will pay it, but not the bank customer! – Where does the bank take the money, if not from the bank customer? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - Please stop! You say you want to make sure you don't pay the bank customer?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen here in the high house and on the televisions! No institution – Mr. Col. Stumblingly, remember the Banking Investigation Committee! – has failed in recent years and decades as pitifully as Austrian banking supervision! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll give you a few examples. In the moment when it was about really bringing banking supervision to the point of controlling it, you turned off the Banking Investigation Committee, with active support from red, i.e. black with active support from red. In the moment when it was about really clarifying, you were no longer interested in it. It is therefore ridiculous if today the Minister of Finance says: Banking supervision will ensure that bank customers do not pay the bank tax. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] - He didn't say! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Minister of Finance appreciates the fact that he did not say that. Argument e contrario: So it pays the bank customer! Of course, who else?- Oh, my God! [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They have remained guilty of the answer to this day. I bring you a few examples, I don't want to talk about the Hypo Alpe-Adria and your black failure down there. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Martinz and his tax advisor friend: 12 million € Honorary for a casual opinion, and then he has given a discount of 6 million, the black party friend of Mr. Martinz. It's great! But I don't want to talk about it. Otherwise, I would also have to talk about your Minister of Finance Grasser, your Minister of Finance Wilhelm Molterer and your Minister of Finance Josef Pröll having been informed about everything that happened in Hypo Alpe-Adria for years and days. Do you know how Grassers and Molterers in particular responded? They sent the information to Brussels, instead of providing it to Croatian justice, and Brussels then forced Mr Senator and the Interior Minister and the Croatian Minister of Finance to resign. That was the whole case, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: That's interesting! That means personal failure!]] Nothing you've done! You've known for years and days what cults, strawingers and mafios have driven in Agram, but you haven't intervened! This can be proved. Your inspectors have come up in Agram, but otherwise you haven't done anything. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Oh, yeah, Willi Molterer, you know exactly. In the Croatian newspapers, it has long been readable that the Austrian judicial system and the Austrian financial authorities refuse to cooperate to cover Mafiosi, Striedinger and Kulterer! That's how it looks, ladies and gentlemen, High House! [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] So be careful when it comes to Hypo Alpe-Adria! That's where you're stuck deep inside. Hypo Lower Austria will grow out. Financial market supervision has not been able to prevent a national bank from paying more than its capital, through an Irish company, through an Irish letterbox company. Banking supervision is supposed to work. – She doesn’t work at all, she’s pathetic, ladies and gentlemen! [[In the case of the BZÖ, and the members of the FPÖ.]] Let me give you another example: Lombard Club, your supervision at Lombard Club. Illegal interest agreements. - What happened? – Ministers Böhmdorfer were deprived of the agenda for the purpose of controlling interest rates. Then she got the black countess smoke-callat. Then nothing happened, and everything went on as before. Who pays the bill? – Banking and therefore virtually every citizen, because everyone already has an account, ladies and gentlemen! So that's how your control looks! I warn the public of this bank tax because it will pay at the end of the citizens. They will be involved in all possible manipulation fees and no one will intervene because bank supervision has already failed in a pitiful way. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Municipal credit!]] Bank Burgenland, the next case. You put a note in the safe and you said: Now the bank is liquid again because the Burgenland taxpayer is liable for everything!, and the whole malaise has continued. If you had an interest in ensuring that these bank directors are crafted, that banking supervision really works, then you would have had to ensure that Parliament can continue to control it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] That is why the Banking Investigation Committee should have met in Permanence to beat your fingers, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9406	Before I give the floor to Mr Stutz, I would like to say that it is totally unacceptable for me that an agreement which I have reached with the ORF will not be complied with and will get out of the transfer early. You can rely on it, I will hold the corresponding talks and I will also inform the members of the President. [[General condolences.]] Mr Dr. Strutz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9440	Madam President. High house! As a member of the Carinthian parliament, I should like to begin by welcoming the main students from Afritz, from meetings and from the municipality of Arriach and their teachers to the House of Lords. [[General condolences.]] Today, they are personally involved in the start-up to the largest burden-laws and certainly the biggest tax attack on the young generation that this federal government is planning in the coming years. Today, we are discussing a bank tax, as Faymann calls it. We are discussing a financial contribution, as Matznetter puts it, or a stability levy, as stupidly meant. In fact, the coalition is not yet in agreement what it wants to present and present to us. But it is right – and, Minister of Finance, you will be supported by us in this way – to ask for a solidarity contribution from the banks, because ultimately it is they who are also guilty of the economic crisis and whose co-causers and therefore also bear the blame for having to book the highest unemployment rate in Austria since the existence of this Republic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With the support of the House and also of our group, you, Mr Finanzminister, have given billions to the banks and have committed these billions of subsidies. But the banks have not fulfilled these requirements. And today you're talking about it again, there must be no credit clamp, there must be no transfer of the costs to bank customers. Yes, no one is going to the chamber election of your Members, the people, the companies? What do you hear? – It is precisely this credit terminal that the requirements you have requested from the banks are not implemented, which affects the small and medium-sized economy in particular. There is no fresh capital available to the Austrian economy, the credit gap is increasing, and the burden on taxpayers and bank customers is increasing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, Minister of Finance: We hear the message, only we lack faith. It's actually a fog grenade that you're igniting here. They want to spread sand to Austrians and actually plan the highest tax charges and tax charges. The close-to-governmental economic research institute is already expressive – literal quote –: There will be no increase in VAT. – This is a message ordered by this Minister of Finance. It is thought about inheritance tax, about raising capital tax. What does that mean? – The small savers, those who have provided for their pension, will be taxed in the future. Or: Increase in mineral oil tax. That's what the coalition is negotiating in the couloirs. That is why, Minister of Finance, let us take the floor. In time, put this House in a law providing for a bank tax and a solidarity levy, and do not join your coalition partner in a working group! What comes out is what we see in the administrative reform. There has been a great deal of announcement, we also want to save in the public sector. When you said, We want to make a common fleet!, has meant Pröll as the First Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance is not involved. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's not true!]] Why did you cancel the Austrian talks? – Because the administrative reform has actually failed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can save the message to try to reorganise the budget on the expenditure side, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Deputy Chancellor of Dipl.-Ing. Pröll:... So should I stay at home? – Don’t lie!]] Give Parliament pure wine! Put the budget in time, as provided for in the Constitution, just as the President of the Council has indicated. What do you have to hide? In reality, it's a fog grenade that you're ignites today. They want to calm down the Austrians. They say the banks should also pay a little bit. The soup, however, will be poaching out all Austrians. You, Mr. Finanzminister, said: We won't spare anyone. – Mr Finanzminister, a dangerous threat to Austria as a whole!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9516	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:30:02]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9541	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9728	The BZÖ-Klub has in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to request the entry into the agenda prior to the entry into force of this Agreement Question No 4543/J by Mr Bucher, fellow Members, to the Federal Chancellor concerning: Austria is unregulated – RedBlack is unceasing! to treat urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9757	I shall also report to the House before the entry into the agenda, Mr Ing. Mr Hofer asked the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to report on the motion for a resolution 100/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues with regard to ensuring the training of nurses a period of 24 years. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As today's meeting calls for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline shall be taken after the end of the debate on the request for a deadline. Before entering the agenda, I will also inform you – this is a relatively long communication – that the following deadline proposals have been tabled in accordance with § 43 GOG without any debate: Request by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 644/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (the Rules of Procedure Act 1975) a period of time until 23. to set up March 2010; Request by Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, the Justice Committee for Reporting on the request 80/A of Deputies Dr. Fichtenbauer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Criminal Code (StGB), BGBl. 60/1974 as amended, as amended, a period of time until 24. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Ing. Hofer, the Family Committee on Reporting on Amendment 133/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning voluntary social year – granting family aid a period of 24 years. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Transport Committee for Reporting on Amendment 172/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on the construction of infrastructure projects under the General Transport Plan of Austria 2002 to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, the Foreign Policy Committee on Reporting on Amendment 44/A(E) by Mrs Strache, colleagues, on referendum on the exit of Austria from the Euratom Treaty, a period of time until 24. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Herbert Kickl, the Economic and Industrial Committee for Reporting on Amendment 129/A(E) by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues in the field of part-time teaching to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Werner Herbert, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the request 156/A of Deputies Herbert, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Pensions of Federal Officials (Gehaltsgesetz 1956 – GehG), BGBl. No. 54/1956, amended, a period of time until 24. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Harald Jannach, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to report on Amendment 39/A(E) by Mr Jannach, colleagues in the field of wood mobility, a period of time until 24. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Kurzmann, the Committee on the Interior Affairs to report on the request 238/A(E) by Mr Kurzmann, colleagues in relation to foreign-speaking local designations of former German cities in documents of the Republic of Austria, a period of time of until 24. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Themessl, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 6/A(E) to Members Themessl, colleagues and colleagues on discharges of citizens due to the financial crisis become imperative until the 24th time. to set up March 2010; Request by Mr Grastaur, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to report on Amendment No 213/A(E) by Mrs Grastaur, colleagues, on the possibility of partial wiring of 380 kV lines for a period of time up to 24. In March 2010, the Commission adopted: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Haider, the tourism committee for reporting on Mr Haider's motion for a resolution (497/A(E)) and Mr Haider, colleagues, on Master's plan for tourism, a deadline until 24. ==References== The motions for notice shall be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations in the order in which they are announced. We are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9902	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 84 minutes, FPÖ 75 minutes, Green 66 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:36:19]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (600 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Financial Balance Act 2008 and the Federal Finance Act 2010 (604 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9946	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. As First of all, Mrs Schittenhelm. I'll set the clock up to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e9973	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! With today's decision, we put a provisional end to a subject that has long been past, which many have perhaps forgotten, only in the municipalities, in the municipalities, not, namely, the drinking tax. For almost 13 years, this debate, this permanent dispute, has lasted and has ended with one, as I believe, which can be achieved for all those involved. This agreement and also this success was finally made possible by our Minister of Finance Josef Pröll, who has released a refund of € 11.47 million to the municipalities in the form of needs allocations. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Of course, a warm thanks goes to the representatives of the Church, who have tried very hard to do so, who have fought for years for the fact that this promise, which was made at the time, is actually being realized. And this is particularly true in a phase – and all those who work in local communities know this – in which the communities turn around every euro in which we really need to see that we can create our budgets. I did not finish an invoice until yesterday at a municipal council meeting and I must say: It's tight. It is no longer about the sum that the communities now get back in the course of these allocations, but it is about a real signal to the communities that there is a Finance Minister here, that there is a Federal Government here, that there is a parliament, that says: We agree with what has been said. – And we should see that as a priority. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] A quick look back, how the whole thing actually developed. – Long, long, it’s been, but there has been the drinking tax in Austria for many decades. Let's remember: The ice cream was taxed by 10 percent, the beverages with 5 percent, alcoholic beverages with 10 percent. This was a substantial sum of 5.6 billion schilling in 1997. Today, it would be blatant to say that it is only €440 000, with three quarters of these revenues coming from alcoholic beverages. [[Calls:Millions]] Finally, in 2000, the European Court of Justice declared this tax inadmissible and was subsequently abolished. And it was possible here thanks to the local representatives – thank you, President Mödlhammer – to say that the federal government has inspired and said: Yes, we will find a solution here for the loss of income of the communities. – This has also happened: Payment should be made from the increased proportion of income. Finally, there was an almost eight-year dispute between the municipalities, the innkeepers, the shops and especially the shopping centres, and in 2008 we also had to make a 15 percent refund to the various shops or entrepreneurs. The total estimated volume was then estimated at around €200 million; the repayment amount was initially estimated at €30 million for the municipalities. Finally, it was much more than 45 million € – a huge amount of compensation! – and the proportion of the federal government had therefore logically increased to € 11.47 million. Despite the strained financial situation at the federal level, our Finance Minister Sepp Pröll managed to do it anyway! . with a corresponding budget approach and budget stabilisation, communities are granted the promised money of € 11.47 million. Thank you once again! We could have continued to argue if we said it was too little – I hear some communities in Tyrol say: That's too little what we get! –, just: It's the wrong time. To continue fighting means to get nothing at all, to continue to argue means that we are wasting our powers and not using them where we need them, namely in fiscal consolidation. We need expenditure savings – these are absolutely necessary! – and above all, ladies and gentlemen, all must take one line: the federal government, the federal states and we in the municipalities – and we know exactly how this is done. We also do not exclude the banks, only we as the Austrian People's Party will not allow one: We will not allow there to be a savings-book tax for the small, hard-working savers, and we will not allow there to be a credit terminal for small and medium-sized enterprises that urgently need credit, nor will we allow the economic location of Austria to be put at risk. [[Call:Is it already there?]] I believe that we are all in agreement, and we in the congregations are making our contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10038	Now comes Mr Mag. Gaßner to speak. I'll set the clock up to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10060	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schittenhelm, it was actually Molterer who promised to help us, who promised to help the congregations, and Pröll has now needed two years until this is finally accomplished. And I need to make a second correction: It is not a budget money in the sense, that is, out of the budget, but the €11 million that the municipalities now receive is the Minister of Finance taking in more because the municipalities have paid the beverage tax back to the establishments. – So, the performance is not so great, but still: Thank you for this €11 million! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] They help the communities, as you said correctly. However, I am startled when I looked at § 22a in detail in this amendment to the Financial Balance Act. That's what I'm saying: “The Federal Government grants the municipalities an allocation of 11 473 000 euros in 2010” – and now it comes! – ‘Maintaining or restoring the balance in the household’. Dear Secretary of State, know Do you have the households of the municipalities? [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: Where is the problem?]] Do you seriously believe that 11 million people for all of Austria will be able to maintain these households silently? [[State Secretary Dr. Lopatka: A contribution!]] Mr. State Secretary! Mr. Finanzminister – he is no longer here – I ask you to set up a local summit immediately and immediately so that we can finally talk about how the communities really do! I am convinced that you do not yet know how bad the communities are, and the communities have a lot of responsibility. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] People in Austria all live in communities and also have the right to quality of life, and if the communities can no longer compensate if the communities no longer have money at their disposal, that is no longer possible. Even Mr. Edmund Brandner of the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” has stated quite correctly: A sharp rise in municipal expenditure is facing declining revenue. And by the way, it's been years. – That is not just the case now, that was the case before! Another aspect, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: The municipalities – as the Court of Auditors says as well as all other business professionals in Austria – are the largest public investor with around €2 billion a year. Mr State Secretary, if these €2 billion fail, then this is not only due to the communities, but then to the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs everywhere in the rural area, then it is at the expense of jobs and ultimately at the expense of the people in Austria. And that is why we urgently need to talk at a community summit about how we can get back out of there and how we can finally eliminate this miser. If the banks crack, then “hopping” it. If any industry has problems, there's a summit meeting. Why not for the communities, where all people in Austria are affected?
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10125	Mr Weinzinger. I'll set the clock up to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10146	Estimated President! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Gaßner, I can only agree with you in everything you have said here, because that would have been part of my speech. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I therefore fully support it. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Repeat the whole thing, that's important!]] I repeat the whole thing so that it might be better taken up by the ears and thus also by the brain. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we dealing with today? – A government template that responds to the fact that in 2009 the municipalities were taxed financially by the repayment of the beverage tax to trade – it was described very precisely by the previous speaker. Good. All right. Justice, compensation – fits, enters Order: By amending the Financial Balance Act, there is a one-time need allocation of € 11.47 million. If we let the discussion go through the head again from the outset: We have been talking about billions and billions of euros, about funds made available to banks for bank rescue, and here we are talking about an amount of 11.47 million euros, which was imposed on the communities by a obviously flawed billing and where they are now getting back a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, this does not solve the problem that has been on the horizon for years. Our communities are at the edge of the economic and financial abyss! That must be fully aware of all of us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That must be fully aware of the Government of this Republic, no matter who makes this government and which parties are involved: Our communities are on the abyss! There are 444 congregations in Upper Austria, and if it is true what you hear so, then two thirds of them will be runaway during this year. Do you know what that means? – This means that these communities can only carry out some administrative tasks, but can’t make any more for their citizens! This is home, that is the narrowest home, the community – family, community. Of course, I'll give it to you. There are some communities that have overlaid their possibilities with Presti buildings in recent years, but on the other hand there are the many communities that want to have a little green space at the village square, the many communities that want to have a somewhat more beautiful municipal office, the many communities that build kindergartens for their children. And they won't be able to do all this anymore because they have to pay a lot for the social assistance association because they have to pay a lot for the hospitals because they have to pay infinity a lot of land taxes – because they're already bound by the little money they get. There is an important word in this government template – and that is, financial compensation law. If we are not able to put this financial compensation law on a new basis, then we are going downhill with our communities. They're going down the stream. We can't afford this if we love our home a little bit.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10208	Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10229	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is good that this item is on the agenda today, because it offers the opportunity to discuss the role of the communities, their tasks and also those of the regional economy here. The area of responsibility of the communities is incredibly diverse and contributes a lot to the quality of life of the local people. The municipalities are responsible from childcare to the maintenance of primary and folk schools in the area, social services, social assistance, old-age and care services, and waste water and waste disposal. The municipal streets must also be preserved. It is therefore a variety of tasks which the more than 2 375 municipalities in Austria face. It is also here, with us in the National Council, mayors and mayors, such as Mrs. Schönpass, Mayor of Ampflwang, or the long-standing mayor of Fischlham, Mr. Auer, who know exactly what challenges she has faced in recent years and decades. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: He's still worried about the spirits!]] The change in the economy, the change from the tasks and at the same time years in which revenue has been scattered, which is now no longer the case. The municipalities have massive losses: In 2009 alone, according to the municipal financial report, there was a minus of 5.75 percent in revenue. Also for this year a minus of 1.75 percent is predicted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Weinzinger.]] This is a difficult situation for all local councillors who work on the ground to meet the future challenges. One thing must not be forgotten: With the federal government, the municipalities are the largest investors with the corresponding effect on the economy and jobs. Of course, a major contribution is also to secure the financial situation of the municipalities, to strengthen the regional economy and thus to secure financial opportunities and, of course, to re-incite the incomes. The economy is a difficult interplay between labour, goods and financial markets, between suppliers and consumers, but also, of course, between the smallest, small, medium-sized and large enterprises. This does not depend on the size of the company to assess the qualitative contribution for the entire economy, but each wheel has its own function. If the shield for the banks and the large companies in Austria was very tight, this was not the case for the smallest and small companies. This is also noted in the statistics. If you look at the statistics relating to the income report, you see that it is the self-employed who suffer from it. 12 percent of these are at risk of poverty. It's a dramatic value. For the survey of working time, you have around 52 hours on average working time for small and smallest companies. These are these one-person companies, of which we have more than 200 000. If you convert this, you would have been in every community, no matter how small or large it is, to the hundred of them. This is all the way from the physiotherapist to the Trafikanten, all the quality of life. In this regard, it is now time to strengthen the little ones' backs and to strengthen the regional economy through these rails. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In this difficult situation, I would like to ask you to support this proposal in this form today, within the meaning of the 240 000 single-person businesses in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10331	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10420	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Widmann. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10441	Thank you, Madam President. High house! After nearly a quarter of a century of municipal council work, it is my particular concern to be able to speak here again about the situation of the municipalities – the 2008 financial compensation law provides the necessary basis for this. The refund was necessary because there was a corresponding ruling that the companies received this tax. The sum is ultimately € 45 million, but the municipalities receive only € 11.5 million from them throughout the country. I looked at this: Upper Austria gets €1.8 million. Do you know how high the exit of the municipality of Freistadt is with 7,400 inhabitants, which is since 1945 a town of departure? – The finish is € 2 million. This means that this refunding for Upper Austria would not even cover the end of the municipality of Freistadt. To speak here of a fair financial compensation to pay the charges is actually cockying and not correct. [[BZÖ and Abg. Weinzinger.]] Members have already mentioned this: The financial situation of the municipalities is more than strained. Income and incomes are falling as a result of the economic crisis, taxes and local taxes are also falling, while compulsory expenditure is rising substantially, for example, in the social field. This is the case, for example, with the health care contributions or also with the good solution of the Free Kindergarten, which came from the federal government, but which did not deal with the financing with the communities. In addition, strict requirements of the federal states will be introduced. I am also thinking of Upper Austria, where we are now trying to extend the duration of the loans. There the municipalities are ordered to repay loans from 25 years, extended to 33 years. This is now cheaper, but, of course, more expensive. We are ultimately burdening the next generations. It is prescribed to the municipalities which are the local authorities that, before taking a decision on the proposal, they must also submit it to the district headquarters for examination. I ask you: Where is the municipality autono? Mie? – Finally, the municipalities are downgraded to accountants who can only meet more requirements. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Think of the provision of minimum fees in the water area, in the canal area, where minimum fees have to be removed, otherwise the allocation of needs will be removed! The last cry is a wild thing at all: Oberösterreich prescribes the municipalities that are the starting municipalities to spend a maximum of € 15 per inhabitants for subsidies for association purposes. 15 €! By contrast, if I look at the promotion of the parties in Upper Austria – namely the Federal Funding summaries with the Landesförderung – you will almost double, i.e. almost 30 € per head. Then I ask myself and the colleagues from the SPÖ, but also those of the ÖVP who are always crying for a fair financial balance: Where is justice here? Where is the value of the club work on site? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Are we so confident that the party work would be worth at least the double of that of the clubs? I say: No, no, no, I say that this is also the case. Let's think about the whole election promise: In 2009, there was a fee stop in Upper Austria. Water and canal charges were frozen, including on the part of the country. The surprise came after the elections. Now we had charge increases by 10, 11, 12, 15 percent within a year. This is what people are pressing for, because the communities are no longer able to compensate their budget accordingly. These are the things you need to talk about. In addition, there are also several other things, such as the electricity price increase in Upper Austria of 8 percent, which you kept at zero in the election year and then doubled again. In other words, the communities have become bitters as far as the finances are concerned. They're just more administrators and accountants. The communities therefore urgently need more money! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Otherwise, it is true that the municipal autonomy, which is enshrined in the Constitution, is only on paper, but can no longer be lived. The protests of many mayors of the ÖVP, SPÖ or the liberals and protests in the Budget Committee are also mentioned here. I'll give you the opportunity to finally make nails with heads. Let us discuss the abolition of the graduated population key, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The graduated population key has its history, it had its right in post-war times to build a certain infrastructure in large cities. These infrastructure measures have been taken, they are ready, but now the communities are starving because they no longer have money – especially the small communities. I ask you: How can it be that, after the financial compensation in force, a citizen in Freistadt is only worth €528, but in Linz the capital of the country is €820? If we had the same sum in Freistadt, we wouldn't be an exit community. And this is actually true of all the small communities in our federal territory. Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There is a lot of room here for the government to create a fair distribution. But it is also the sample of nails for ÖVP and SPÖ to give their words to the speaker by supporting our request. Give communities more scope in the field of social, environmental, economic, but also in the field of security! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10572	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10639	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10660	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am always very excited when, after the final financial compensatory negotiations, there are colleagues who march out here and talk about the abolition of the graduated population key. I should like to remind you that the last financial compensation law had little to do with support. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, however, we are dealing with a novelle of beverage tax – an infinite story! There's also a little to remember: At the EU accession of Austria, there was written assurance by then Minister of Finance Lacina – ladies and gentlemen – listen: written assurance! – that the drinking tax is compatible with EU law. And after that, the community, the municipal government and above all the communities have relied. The fact was something else. That is why we should not get out of here today and call on the ÖVP Finance Minister to do something – of course, not a question at all! The fact is: The drinking tax has been tilted, there have been laborious negotiations, efforts of the municipal government, including the municipal government, and today this little novelle is almost the end of an unpleasant story about the suffering of the communities. [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] The last remaining open points of discussion have been cut off, but overall this is not even a drop on the hot stone. Mr Widmann has made clear here the situation of his municipality. It is so, as Mr Weinzinger has said here, that the situation of the communities is dramatic. I know the above Austrian example myself at least as well as he; I was the mayor of a small community for at least 32 years and was able to find the compensation through iron saving – through iron saving! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For me, it was always clear that fees for canal, water and waste disposal should be introduced and respected. It is also a question of the settlement structure, because if I want to disassemble everything, as is sometimes called for by opposition parties in the councils, then I have to build miles of lines and then have difficulties. But the fact is that in many communities the basic structure is no longer to be maintained, because the financial compensation is not a compensation. “Compensation” would mean “compensating”. But that's not it. I would remind those municipal political representatives when the next financial compensation law Novelle here is about to debate, to think about whether it is really justified that the municipal citizens of Vienna and other cities – they were called – are of equal value. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: That's not true!]] It would also be necessary to consider whether care funding, hospital leave coverage, kindergartens and so on decide on all the others, but the municipality may then pay. We are confessing to these institutions, not at all a question, but in principle should already apply: Whoever buys, he pays, and then the world looks a little different in the churches! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen: Willi Molterer was the only finance minister who did a little bit for the communities during the last amendment to the Financial Balance Act. I would remind you that from 2011 onwards, €100 million will be available to those municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants from this financial compensation. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Eßl.]] Nevertheless: It's far too little. It has been difficult to speak in all the decades that the small communities also need to be strengthened accordingly. One point, ladies and gentlemen, is that the bank aid package is always being discussed. I would give up such help as the banks as a community, and I say so quite openly. As a community, I do not want to pay 9 per cent interest for a share capital, as the banks must do, because that would not be possible to finance. We need an improved financial structure, especially for the smaller, the weaker communities that have to ensure that they accept nature reserves, that they accept NATURA-2000 areas, that they must accept water protection and protected areas, so that they are restricted in their development, so to speak, so to speak, to further develop their economic impact. It's up there, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10744	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10765	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to remind you that there would have been a possibility to adapt and repair non-EU-compatible beverage tax. But they didn't want to do that at that time. Shortly thereafter, economic chamber elections took place, and at the time, one simply wanted to give the host and the beverage trade an attractive asset in this election campaign. That's the problem! The communities are now suffering, that is not a question. And we really have a problem with financing our municipalities. This is no longer only true of the small communities, but it is now quite a medium-sized city, which, because of the current economic situation, suffers massively. Their performance is really challenged. However, there are many areas where cross-border cooperation can be carried out, which is already taking place in the communities. That is where I come from, namely from the Upper Austrian Innstal. In the meantime, the municipalities cooperate in the field of economic aid. I believe that, especially with regard to long-term links, professional debt management would be needed here, there are also opportunities, but not many, but the Republic of Austria would have to think something about supporting the communities better. On the debt side, too, there are assets that you don't have to earn, which you don't have to pay if you do it skillfully. I think it is also a problem to finance leasing today, which is all Maastricht-relevant. Consideration should also be given in the field of energy-saving measures as to how leasing models are not taken into account for the debt of municipalities. I could imagine very well that there are also solutions there. Of course, the waste of the state environment is being discussed again and again and again, which would benefit the communities directly. This is an eternal debate. One should really find a solution here that should ultimately be in favour of the communities. Theoretically, the communities are independent and self-regulated, but in reality they all depend on the drop of the countries and depend on the goodwill of the government members and the heads of state. And that's not really the elegant method. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Economic measures are necessary without having to include Maastricht-relevant in debt. But the biggest problem in the communities is the rising, yes exploding costs for social assistance associations. Costs are far above inflation. Of course, this requires the efficiency of our health care system and the efficiency of our social assistance facilities. Something has to happen. I believe that it is also necessary to clarify whether health care should not be re-established as a central institution. The country's responsibility is the same: A country has a dense external border, and one does not look beyond the national border. Although a great hospital is still standing 10 kilometers away, one is still being built in your own federal state. So there are a lot of opportunities to be exploited. I am very curious about what the next financial compensation will be. Unfortunately, this is not always so simple, but due to the tense situation, the attitude of small and large communities will also change, and there will be more solidarity between the communities and the cities. Therefore, I am optimistic that there is a reasonable solution in 2013 for a long-term security of our community structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10829	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! That would be a subject on which all parties are in the same position! There are mayors from the red, black, blue, BZÖ and also from the Greens. It would therefore be a matter where one could really think about how to improve the financial situation of the communities. I have already indicated in several discussions on economic policy that there are, of course, also possibilities beyond financial compensation. One of the few revenues that the local authorities can make themselves is, for example, the municipal tax. But now we know that in the course of this economic crisis local tax revenue has fallen dramatically, because the number of bankruptcys and insolvencys has increased sharply over the last year and the communities are unfortunately also under it. I have already indicated to the public – in many discussions here in the house and also with Mr Mitterlehner – that, of course, many communities in Austria – I claim, more than 60 percent – have a huge need for resurgence in their own infrastructure areas, such as the expansion, expansion or renovation of kindergartens or schools. In the course of this economic crisis, the Government has taken the following reasonable step: In the previous year, by regulation, the Federal Chancellor raised the limits for the mandatory limited or unlimited tender. Of course, it was intended to mean that the local establishments could rather get to the train that municipalities can write construction contracts up to a larger sum limited in the municipality or in the immediate environment. That was good, but that does not help if the communities do not have the necessary money. I have often proposed to set up an economic package that will help the communities improve their own infrastructure – in times of economic crisis – in order to support the local economy in securing jobs and, of course, to ensure local tax revenue for communities in a certain scale. Why don't you sit down in a cross-party way and think about it? It didn't take long to think about tearing out a 10-billion-€ package from the bank package to help the so-called management companies, the large companies in Austria, and to decide a liability framework of €10 billion. But with the communities in Austria, which really need our help, one does not go on! You could hit two flies with a flap: They could be taken under the arms of the local authorities, thereby enabling them to increase or at least secure local tax revenues, while ensuring that infrastructure in kindergarten and school facilities will also be secured in the coming years. You know, ladies and gentlemen, on a subject in which all parties are actually agreed, it would be easy to think about such an economic package, especially since it would only have a positive impact on everyone, including the economy, and safeguard jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10904	Next speaker: Mr Huber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10926	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This government template is good, and we will also agree with it. But the following is the fact – and I have to say this when we talk about the drinking tax today –: 45 million € have paid back the municipalities in 2009, 11 million now receive them as a unique allocation of needs – and a colleague from the ÖVP praises that too! - I think it's rather ridiculous. I am of the same opinion as Mr Auer: It is right to compensate, but a balance should be made according to his name. – This is by no means the case. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The communities belong to much more strengthened. You have to invest more and more now, because the economic crisis will only come down correctly. There must be a capacity for action by the local authorities. There are also very many black sheep among the communities. If I look at my hometown of Lienz, I have to say: There has been nothing happening in recent years except headline producers, although the funds were available. That's where scandals happened. In Lienz – listen! – a indoor pool built – newly built, the same indoor pool as in Graz. [[towards ÖVP]] Graz receives €4.37 million of funding from the federal government as a lost grant – it is the same swimming pool and the same operator! – and the city of Lienz gets zero promotion. [[Abg. May. Schönegger: It won't be the same!]] They were too lazy or too proud or too beautiful to look for. This must be paid by the citizen in Lienz – converted to our population. We will immediately end these small and large scandals. The BZÖ – also in Lienz – will ensure that such misunderstandings are put to an end. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Today, in the “Small Newspaper” it is very high that the community association in Lienz builds a childcare facility. – The plan is already being presented there, gentlemen! That's how you work in certain communities. The planner is none other than the spouse of Mrs. Federal Councillor Greiderer, who has already driven very well at the M99 project in Lienz with 550 000 € private profit so to speak. But no, this is awarded by the church, by the community without any tender. And what do you think the planner was? – The planner was the only employee of the husband of the Federal Councillor Greiderer. [[Ah-run at BZÖ.]] This EIA policy cannot, of course, go on. I would be pleased if some ÖVP mayors here in the House would take up these things and help to stop them immediately. ÖVP and SPÖ are at all invited to go away from the headline producer and finally to set up actions so that the financial compensation is made reasonable, so that the communities can create and secure jobs and thus make up their budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e10986	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11008	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the House! If we are discussing today the Financial Balance Act 2008 and the Federal Financial Act 2010, we already have to be clear that we are not now discussing a general change in the financial compensation, but that we can end the discussion about the recoveries of the drinking taxes accordingly with this government template. It's, I think, important that we do this. A quick look: ==References== In March 2000, more than ten years ago, the collection of the excise duty was suspended by the European Court of Justice. At the time, the reason was the incompatibility with EU law. There have, of course, been many years of discussions on how to solve this. This lasted until April 2008. There was an agreement with the Chamber of Commerce on the amount of the repayments to the food trade, just for this period of the 1st century. From 1995 onwards, from accession to the European Union, until the 8th century. ==References== A 15 percent repayment rate for pending repayments has been agreed. The uncertainty, the uncertainty, was still great at that time. Therefore, there was also great interest of the federal government in helping to end this uncertainty. The Minister of Finance Willi Molterer, at the time, has succeeded in deciding that in this situation the communities will be provided with money and helped to cope with the payments. This is, as I believe, also good because the communities do not actually produce euphoria, but are in a financially difficult situation, but still have to deal with their tasks. With today's amendment to the Financial Balance Act and the Federal Finance Act, a final line can be drawn under the subject of beverage tax. I congratulate Helmut Mödlhammer, the President of the Federal Government, who has conducted these years of negotiations intensively in the interest of the communities. The allocation of needs to the municipalities will amount to € 11.47 million – that is 25 percent of the refund volume. This will not solve all the problems of the communities, but it is a strong signal to the communities that the Federation is also willing to help and seek solutions. I should like to thank the Minister for Finance Sepp Pröll and also his State Secretary for the preparation of this government proposal. I believe that this is a good result in the sense of Austrian citizens, and I would like to ask for this bill to be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11056	Next speaker: Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11077	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear visitors to the gallery! The development of this government template, which is under negotiation today, was actually triggered by the municipality of Mils in Tyrol, provided that I still have it properly in mind. The municipality of Mils has gone to the Constitutional Court in the area of beverage tax, on the grounds that in 2000 a ruling by the ECJ of the division keys for compensation payments to the municipalities was re-established, which in the municipality of Mils has led to the fact that it has not received compensation payments for a motorway seat in its municipal area. We have already heard everything else – also that this has gone away for a long time. However, this government template now allows a one-time allocation of needs to return to the municipalities in the amount of €11.47 million already mentioned. The division of these €11.47 million between the federal states is the result of the fact that my federal state of Upper Austria receives exactly €1 856 458. It's got a reason why I'm saying this: Divided by the 445 congregations in Upper Austria, this means about €4,000 per municipality over the thumb. If, as has already been discussed today, we know that some 300 of the 445 Upper Austrian communities can no longer compensate for this, then this is obviously not really much, but it is means that flow back to where they belong. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think it is also an important signal for our communities as the communities with their mayors and offices they have to meet legal requirements. If they can't do this anymore because of the financial situation and then always have to go as a bitter to the respective national referee, then we have to consider politically whether there will still be long mayors if you don't change this situation, because why should someone do this when he has to drive five times so that he can get money once. This is how the mayors described this to me. We also need to know – and this is very important for us politically – that people, as a survey revealed, are very happy to live in their communities. But if a community can no longer invest in the infrastructure, what do the boys do? – They just go to the nearest place, to the central room. But there are problems with apartments there, there are problems with the infrastructure, and the regions are being diluted again. That can't be the point of the matter! That is why I would ask for a great deal of attention to be paid to the compensation of the communities and to the subject. Since the Secretary-General of the Austrian Community, Mr. Hint, sits on the visitor gallery: I would really ask you – I know, of course, that the topic is in good hands with you – that, in the sense of what Kurt Gaßner said, such a community summit should be set up. We don't need our own tax, that's clear, but it's important to list what the problems of the communities are and how to solve them. I think that this would be important – in the sense of all, also in the minds of people in the churches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11123	Next speaker: Deputy Grazauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11144	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To refund the drink tax: Of course, we agree with this matter of law. It is high time this matter was settled. However, I would like to take up another issue that has been dealt with very strongly in the media lately, which has nothing to do with municipal funding, but is nevertheless important, and I think it is also important that I, as a free budget speaker, should point out that it is a matter of saving. The state must save, and I am delighted to note that today many speakers have spoken about saving. This is a complete turn in the right direction – whether it happens or not, we will see it first. I recently had a discussion with Mr Krainer on ‘Puls 4’. As a result, I was asked by the reporter how much I think can be saved annually by the federal government. I have – because we have expected this before – answered that it is possible to save €10 billion a year. – They laughed at me – especially Mr. Krainer laughed at me. Yesterday, in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) one could read that Professor Aiginger of the Wifo says that the state could save up to €11 billion a year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You have to be able to calculate!]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the government: According to Wifo, €11 billion could be saved! Why don't you do that? It is high time to start saving – with a government debt of € 190 billion! The Minister of Finance has said that he has succeeded in maintaining a deficit of 3.5%. – One is really being tricked, too, because if the banks had claimed all the funds planned, then we would have reached about €15 billion in 2009. That's how they trick us out and say, We have “only” 9.6 billion debts! 15 billion € are about 200 billion schilling in old currency. - That's how we are! There are a lot of savings potentials – “when there are profound reforms”, as Aiger says, in the administration, in the field of health, through partial disposal or privatisation of federal assets. To increase the retirement age, which is now 58 years old, to 62 years old, would bring alone € 5 billion. If the funding would be reforested, you could get a lot of money, and if the communities – and I think they do so too – to rethink their costs and put together various communities as a whole, you could also save a lot of money. The ÖBB-pensions are a barrel without soil. We pay € 2 billion annually from the federal government. Mrs Bures, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, said: Yeah, let's do it now! Now we're doing something! That's where I ask you: Why now? 15 years would have had time to raise the limits of 49 years to the right level of 60 years and above as regards pensions. [[Abg. Haberzettl: You are not properly informed, Mr Colleague!]] That's where the right one screams. It's perfectly right: You're guilty, I say! You owe yourself to the other Austrians if you do not change or change these things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'd rather, we'd like to stick to the hacker's rules, because they pay at least 40, 45 years for at least – not like the ÖBBlers who pay for only 30 or 35 years. [[Call at the SPÖ: This is a total nonsense!]] Yeah, yeah, it's right. Mr President-in-Office of the Council Moser said yesterday [[Abg. Strache: ( towards SPÖ) Did you hear that?]] If not now iron is saved, there will be drastic tax increases! – This is what we are blooming, ladies and gentlemen, and we definitely want to prevent and avoid this from the FPÖ! I therefore urge the government to: Do something at last! Sit down acts, and do not watch the things, as in the past! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11259	Next speaker: Mr Grosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11281	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If we talk about the drinks today – do you have it? - Good. [[Abg. Mr President, I should like to make a point of order. What about the order call?]] [[Interlocutory remarks by President Neugebauer.]] [[President Neugebauer: Mr Grosz, please.]] If we are discussing the community's drinking tax today, then we should discuss the financial situation of the communities at all – and I am quite right in giving my previous speakers: Social expenditure is exploding, and revenue is falling. The Austrian communities, whether in Burgenland, in Lower Austria, Upper Austria or with me in the Styria, drive financially to the wall, and apparently since 2008, since the last decision-making of the financial compensation nobody has ever been responsible for the budgets of the individual communities. And there I am not talking about the so-called black and red sheep that bring our Austrian communities into discredit. I do not speak of impulses, of Fohnsdorf, of Hartberg, of Köflach, of Gosdorf, of Oberwart, and of what these communities call with their painterries all who have thereby discredited the communities. No, I am talking about a large part of the Austrian communities that have been unable or will not be able to maintain the general care of our parish citizens since the 2008 financial compensation was imposed. I am referring to the fact that in the Austrian municipalities we now have the highest rate of tax and fees, which is no longer a real equivalent to the municipality's performance. I am referring to the fact that in Austria we now have communities that no longer know how to carry out their task of general care – schools, kindergartens, infrastructure. And I am talking about communities that could now act as a job engine in the economic crisis, by making important investments in road construction, important investments in the accessibility of their public buildings and thus investment in the construction industry, in the small and medium-sized enterprises of their region. All this is not possible because a finance minister is waving around in the role of Little Buddha in India and otherwise we have a federal government that is going to stand still. [[Abg. Amon: Here you go!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] That's why I'm saying: We demand from a federal government that it finally goes here and also recognize that the financial compensation is no longer to be maintained by 2013, and we therefore also call for a preference of financial compensation to be made in 2010. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Only the funds of the bank package, €100 billion, have been suffocated for banks, popularly said, while on the other hand one has no money for the communities, speak volumes. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] From our point of view, this is an hour's commandment so that we do not abandon the people of our communities, in rural areas, in our regions and also guarantee the general welfare of Austrians in their communities in the future. I am therefore seeking your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11383	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is under negotiation, as is the one previously tabled by Mr Graubur. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11512	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11534	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the amendment of the Federal Finance Act and the Federal Finance Act, the problem of the question of Austrian drinking tax is now a solution. According to several ECJ judgments, findings from the Administrative Court and a legislative examination procedure which has not yet been completed by the Constitutional Court, it is possible to state until now that the municipalities are required to repay the drinking tax in particular. This government template responds to the fact that in 2009 the municipalities were overburdened financially by the repayments of drinking tax to trade. It now provides the municipalities with a unique allocation of needs, as mentioned above, of € 11.47 million by amending the Financial Balance Act. This contribution is financed by the advance deduction of corporate tax, and this is based on the fact that the federal government has less tax revenue than € 7.68 million. This refund from the federal government will provide support to the municipalities, which is only a small aid and does not refund the full loss by the lost drinking tax. Dear ladies and gentlemen! We know the importance of our communities and the investments they make, and we also know what important tasks the communities have in our country. I therefore think it is particularly desirable that we also support them in a financial way so that they can carry out their municipal tasks in terms of facilities such as kindergartens, schools, roads, canal development and infrastructure in general. The municipalities are among the largest investors – and we have heard this today – but they also have an important role as a municipal investor, and they are doing important investments at this time, which create and maintain sustainable jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, please give me the following comment: We have heard a lot about the banking summit here today, and I would like to congratulate our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann quite warmly on this really positive intermediate result, which brings a solidarity which I believe is fair, timely and fair. [[Deputies Grastaur and Neubauer: He's not finished yet!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11610	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11631	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! In 1848 the municipalities in Austria became autonomous, and at present there are not quite 2 360 municipalities which are located in the areas of It provides services – from canal, waste, water via the road and road network, to public transport in part, to important functions as a kindergarten or school holder. These communities are gradually dried up financially. The Federal Government and the Länder make the laws – the communities have to bathe out to pay for them. And there is now a payment of € 11.47 million as compensation for a waste – a lot has already been said. This means, on average, 4 866 € for each Oh, my God. Well, these averages always have a certain problem, but one should only be aware of the scale. Social assistance, state subsidies, health care allowances, all this does not make it possible to set up or comply with the budgets of the municipalities carefully. It is not by chance that the Municipal Government and the Municipal Government adopt resolutions. And now to the current situation: If we already have a finance minister who does not even manage it – because he is not willing to do so – to set up a budget in time for 2011 or 2012, how should he begin a financial compensation in 2013? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps the Minister of Finance also expects to be no longer responsible for this in 2013. Among my previous speakers were many local politicians, such as Mrs Schittenhelm, who wanted to go to the end, but now remains here. She has praised the Minister of Finance for his far-sightedness and generosity that he has now made this possible. However, what went down to me – and with that on a subject that is now particularly Lower Austria – was the praise for the financial referent in Lower Austria, Mr. Landesrat Sobotka, who belongs to your party. That's a little missed out on your statements. What we have been allowed to read about it lately, or what we have to do with money: 1 billion € Housing aid, 800 million € via a dubious bank in which the country is involved, then another 70 million € grant of equity in this bank and then a penalty rate of 40 million €! – I have to say, in view of these funds that go out there: If these funds had not been played by the ÖVP in Lower Austria, the communities could have a little more to live and would not have to be cut off from the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I find it interesting that the country of Lower Austria serves an investment bank in Ireland, Dublin. It even has the beautiful name: “Augustus Funding Limited”. – Well, Augustus, the first successor of the Roman Emperor Caesar, has attached this name as an honorary title, probably not out of chance, perhaps also as a kneefall before the first Lower Austrian national Emperor Erwin Pröll, in which shadows could and could flourish and thrive and where there are no institutions to stop that even in approaches. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] An example of where financial market supervision has failed!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11704	Mr Lopatka is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11725	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Finance, I would also like to refer to the situation of the federal government, since we must not ignore this situation when it comes to always demanding the federal government: Bund, pay! Of course, we have also felt the crisis massively and since 2008 we have recorded a minus of €13 billion in revenue. That's something we have to deal with. First point. Second point: Of course, it is also true of the communities when revenue falls to such an extent. In 2009, starting in September 2008, we were very deeply concerned about the situation of the banks. That was a problem. But the bigger problem now is what is going on at European level, here in the House, in the countryside and at municipal level, namely that this crisis of banks is now increasingly becoming a crisis of individual states, individual states and individual communities. Think of Greece, of Carinthia, of Fohnsdorf – just to give an example for each level. And in this context, before we talk about new revenue again, we also need to consider whether on the expenditure side each local authority actually does what is necessary. Now I start with the communities: How do federal officials get involved in the pension reform, now have a retirement age of 65, but, for example, in a highly indebted municipality – a municipal council of this highly indebted municipality has just mentioned earlier, it is the state capital Graz – the municipal civil servant law, as far as the municipal officials are concerned, still provides for a retirement age of 61? This failure to implement a reform that we have long implemented in the federal government alone causes more than €30 million of costs to the state capital Graz. [[Abg. May. Kogler: In what period?]] – 2047. The bill is always up to 2047. Or, when I think of the state of Carinthia – yesterday we had a meeting of our famous consolidation round again –: To date, no decision has been taken as far as civil service law is concerned. This means € 199 million in costs for the Federal Republic of Carinthia. The present of the state government, which exists, does not provide for a translation of 40 years, but only for 15 years! That's only half the savings! So before voting on the big Lamento, I ask you to think about your own homework. Dangerous are always election times. Example: Upper Austria – municipal council elections. I understand very much that they say: In pre-school childcare, something has to happen, so the kindergarten has to be free. But does the lunch table have to be free for all children in kindergarten, as in Linz? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Is he not? He's not!]] Well: How in Linz! I am talking about Graz, where there is an ÖVP mayor, in this case of Linz, where a SPÖ mayor is in office. – We must stop defending everything here when it comes to our own area! These things must be changed before we always demand: Bund, pay! That's what I wanted to say here – because with these 11 million, it doesn't pay off that I'm talking about it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11790	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11811	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! This is always about a government template and a solution. I think that the drinking tax government template – that's what I want to call it – is perhaps not a drop on the hot stone, but two drops, but no more. Then: More and more communities get more tasks charged and have less and less money. That's just a fact. I will give you an example from Vorarlberg, how this works “wonderfully” – under quotation marks. And that's... The country is giving more and more tasks to the municipalities. However, the country has completely “forget” to make the financial resources available for it. There the communities have to see where they get them. For this purpose, Mr Landeshuptmann can present a balanced budget as a national financial reference. However, the communities are too short, they are just in front of the pleite. So, ladies and gentlemen, it can't be. I would also like to say that the communities are increasingly being downgraded to alms, to the beneficiaries of alms in the country and the federal government, who – with more and more tasks to be done – depend on the goodwill of the head of state or the federal government. – Ladies and gentlemen, something is going wrong here! I would also like to give you an example from my home town of Hörbranz, the market town of Hörbranz with 6 400 and some inhabitants, which can be done wrong as a community. We have a mayor there, who, just over five years ago, inherited the mayor's office from his father-in-law after putting two companies in the sand. And now, despite the strong financial strength we once had as a community, we have reached a point where the market community of Hörbranz has only €500 000 in capital, despite Superbudget's previous mayor and despite the means they have accumulated for bad times. In other words, we still have a savings book of €500 000, which corresponds to one and a half family houses. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a mismanagement! Something has to happen here, and here you have to make sure that it doesn't happen again. Therefore, we from the BZÖ also call on the Federal Government to abolish this graded population key – it has already been addressed several times. There is a motion for a resolution on this, ladies and gentlemen. I can only ask you to agree. This relic from a reconstruction phase after the Second World War has been in operation. It's no longer contemporary. And it must also be clear here that every resident is worth the same amount, no matter what community he comes from. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also need to ensure that small communities, for example, now pay a very high hospital contribution. Thus, while the situation was earlier such that large communities had to bear heavy loads through hospital construction and infrastructure that benefited the whole region, today all the municipalities in the region also pay. – This has to be pointed out once, and it has to be done here. I can only call on the Federal Government and appeal to it: Make sure that the communities, and especially the small communities, are financed by a fair financial compensation! Our support for this is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11875	Mr Kirchgatterer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11896	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to comment on this. The tax on beverages was a tax which was considered to be very unfair by small and medium-sized enterprises of trade, because many large businesses received discounts of up to 60, 70 percent from the municipalities, because the tax on beverages was a tax which taxed consumption in the municipality and which therefore caused small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I am glad that this tax has gone away, and I am also very glad that the last tax reform, the one in 2009, has been in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises and thus the medium-sized enterprises have been strengthened. I would of course like to support all the representatives of the municipalities who have pointed out the extremely difficult situation of the communities. However, I would like to add that all the inhabitants of the regions wish that cities in the cultural field have a wide range of services, and I would like to point out that the cities also have more and more social tasks and, in particular, that they are often left alone by the federal government. That is why I would like to take the opportunity, Mr State Secretary, to point out that there are many police officers in the central areas missing, a third fewer police officers in some cities than in 2000 and still have more tasks than before. Therefore, there is also a need for a rethinking by the federal government before the federal financial compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11944	Next speaker: Mrs Silhavy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e11966	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Gartlehner has already pointed out the historical development of the Causa beverage tax. The fact is that with this change in the law, we are today making available to the municipalities a allocation of € 11.47 million – a measure that will be carried by all the political groups in this House. Many previous speakers have already pointed out the precarious financial situation of the municipalities. In this context, however, I should first of all like to point out the active role of the cities. The cities are the motor of the regions, and many small communities are undoubtedly benefiting from the urban offers in the nearby area. At the same time, however, we are also required to make the habitats more attractive to people. The Styria with the head of state Voves is an exemplary way here with Regionext, namely that of pooling development policy activities, in order to ensure or improve social, cultural and economic services for people in these regions. – This, however, means a job and administrative reform also within the regions, in order to provide more services for people and the economy through greater efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, the tourism and leisure industry in particular is an area where good regional infrastructure is of utmost importance. In this context, however, I call on all the partners in the financial balance to decide on the necessary tasks and administrative reforms – qualitatively and quantitatively – at the next financial compensation, because when we talk about reforms and the financial compensation is not given, we see that this is always happening: Then the ball becomes from one to the others and played back again. For me, proper financial compensation also means that task and administrative reform will be negotiated and decided. It is about providing attractive habitats for people in the regions. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is probably a task that we all have to deal with together in politics if we want to shape a good and life-worthy life for people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12011	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12043	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The municipalities were declared at the time of accession negotiations that Austrian beverage tax could be preserved. Today we know that the communities have to repay €45 million to trade. Today's decision will allow the federal government to participate in these payments with more than €60 million. – However, this is not a gift from the federal government, which is merely a re-funding of an assumption that the League had from this title anyway. Nevertheless, this is an important decision because it does not really work well for the municipalities – many previous speakers have pointed this out. We know that there are already 600 communities that cannot balance. We do not know what will be at the end of this year, but the situation will be much more dramatic. It is therefore unbearable that federal and state politicians keep trying to profile themselves at the expense of the municipalities. This was the case with the drinking tax, which must also have been removed for ideological reasons. – There has been a replacement for it, but for the communities the replacement means less money. The same has happened with the commercial tax. This has turned out to be the municipal tax – with the result that there is less revenue for the municipalities. We also know the ongoing discussions on additional labour costs. These are undoubtedly high, and it would be good if we could relieve the workers, but if it comes to implementing the results of these discussions, then the communities will again pay for it, because then the municipal tax will again be discussed. On the question of commercial taxation, too, Germany's and national politicians are constantly talking and saying: Nothing is allowed to happen, although we know that we are at a distance in Europe. – It is easy to talk about community revenue as a federal or national politician! But we will also experience in the foreseeable future that we are entering a high interest rate phase. Many developments in the future in the communities are foreign-funded, and it is quite possible that in the next few years the interest rate situation will move towards double-digit. If that comes, we can already figure out what that means today. In any case, the communities will no longer be able to fulfil their mission as the original largest investor, and this fact alone will drive the spiral further down. – Therefore, I think: We have done a bank package, which is why it would be good, right and at the highest time that we also afford a local package. This would allow us to support regional enterprises and regional employment. We also know that taxpayers in our country are essentially the wage dependent and the small businesses. Therefore, we are required to strengthen precisely these groups through a local package, because they would actually also be the guarantee that what we no longer get from the bank package can be replaced. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not five to twelve; it is twelve.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12096	Next speaker: Mr Linder. - Please. Ladies and gentlemen, what time can I set for you? Do you want a guide? - Please. [[Abg. Linder: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 5 minutes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12132	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! As regards the issue of changing the financial compensation in 2008, I believe that there is a good principle for us in the communities, according to which most municipalities and most of the mayors are taking action: that, in principle, one should act once according to the 'polluter pays' principle. And when I think back that the whole thing is a failure of the EU negotiations in 1995, I really believe that the federal government should participate by more than 25 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing I claim for us communities and for us mayors is that we have handshake quality. And if the predecessor of the Minister of Finance has agreed 25 percent, I think we should not discuss today whether the sum is € 7.5 million or € 11 million: If I agree with 25 percent, then I have to stand by and have to comply with that! – And I think, Mr Robert Hank, General Secretary of the Federal Government, who is watching us from the crowd, we know very well that it was only at the pressure of the local government and at the pressure of the local authorities that he was able to move the Minister of Finance to comply with the promise of his predecessor. If you still know that he's getting these €11 million on corporate tax, I think it's very reasonable to talk about a gift to the communities, especially since we know that the communities are financially very bad. However, they are not doing badly because they have caused this themselves, but because they are paid with costs – and this in times when all experts confirm that funds invested by the municipalities will be made available to small and medium-sized enterprises, and the regional economy will benefit the local economy. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That is why, I believe, Minister of Finance, Mr President of the State, it would be time for the local authorities to have a business package in order to enable the communities to do their work for their citizens and also to support the local economy on the ground to help the local economy. I ask you to: Use the opportunity to help through the communities of the economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12185	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12206	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the reasons for the voting behaviour of the Green Group, I would like to make a few points which differ here: I mean, someone has to think about what financial constitution we have in this Republic before we come to the idea of mutually aligning ourselves: there the Federation, because the country and there the communities. The Secretary of State has, in my view, rightly indicated it and tried to do so. It is true in this country that revenue competence is essentially – and this may be seen now as you want – at the federal level, even if we have a municipal tax and a basic tax. These do not make the herb fat everywhere, and by the way, you could still think about whether we do not shape it more intelligently – but in principle it lies with the covenant. The best of all are the country representatives: We must always take the country representatives into account when we talk about reforms here, because there is the collected blockade. What the national leaders show is cast in concrete, and they simply stand across and emphasize the direction in almost every question. Let's look at that at the Austrian talks! But if it is already the case that the Federation has to assume responsibility for the revenue, then it is probably also the case that, if you look at the communities, you have to look at two things: How do they operate, and what are you so to speak because of the tasks assigned to them by the covenant? There you have to divide two parts: With regard to the first question, the whole "sin communities" have been mentioned, which is the specialty of Mr Grosz, he has listed them. – In the place it is said: He's right! – But let’s leave it because we know the Styrian canon: Hartberg, shoots and so on; there are not so few. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] One would save a bit if there were to be worked and not speculated and some expenditure crazy, but the basic problem, if we leave the polemics aside – now you have to be quiet again, Mr Grosz – remains another, namely that the communities are assigned more and more tasks, but in the end, there can hardly be any change in the revenue situation itself. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Grosz]] Now we have not only the economic crisis, which reduces revenue, we generally have a trend that the tax and tax rate is falling in terms of GDP. At the same time, however, social tasks are growing especially in the care and health sectors. - The sheriff's going apart! Even if the communities were to operate optimally, it is the case that they inevitably find themselves in a dilemma. Now we could all point to the communities. – However, this will not help much, and the communities cannot even defend themselves, so one has to look at where one can start: certainly with the municipalities, in my opinion, especially with the countries, third with country cooperation – keyword: two hospitals, which are only separated by a country border flow. There is already more than one example of where hundreds of millions of hospitals with even the same focus – no one understands at all! – be raised because they are in competition. [[Abg. Pendl: Many examples!]] The Secretary of State knows that. You were involved at the time, weren't you? A Hartberger is not supposed to come to the world in Oberwart and a guard is not supposed to come to the world in Hartberg, although the cities can be reached on each side almost by bike: It can't go on like this! [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Lopatka.]] – I’m well aware of that, I’m from the region. There are even better examples! Lower Austria is a wonderful example: There you are even so far that it is still operating within the federal state. – So: If we don’t attack that, the whole “goat ” won’t help us. But if we have to answer the revenue and protect the neighboring communities, then it will also be necessary that we stop with the nonsense of explaining to all the world that only in a tax reduction can salvation be sought, for how should the communities finance their tasks if they depend precisely on the incomes of the federal government? - That's the point! The basic question is and remains: Which social and social model do we want? Does the public hand have a task or not? – If she has a job, for example, which we support, then you have to equip her. Then you have to give the public hand its means in order to do something reasonable. That's why it's such a perverse nonsense to cry out in the world all the time – in this situation: Who is the better tax reduction party?, but on the other hand, to hide what cannot be financed. That's totally unscrupulous. We caught them all together: This must not be because in this country there is simply a lack of uniosity competition by saying that all taxes will be reduced anyway. – In the meantime, one cannot even debate whether the rich should make a greater contribution or whether VAT should be increased. No, it's all going to happen next year! – Well, the communities will thank themselves. How are they supposed to budget? And now we are on the point – the Secretary of State even nods – and it is precisely what these motions for resolutions are all about. We consider the one BZÖ application to be highly reasonable: We are now opening up the financial balance – how are they to defend themselves on the other side? [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The financial compensation has been decided, there was no mention of the economic crisis at all – some have foreseen it, but you did not want to see it and hear it. You of the ÖVP are the economic party, but you do not read the “economist” anymore, because the “Tripstrüer Wirtschaftsbote” is already enough for you. - That won't help! The financial compensation has been decided, and if we stand there so well, we will also have to change it: partly in favour of the communities that have to do well and perform tasks, and we have to get it back where the communities speculate. Here we will also set penalties – we agree that once we impose sanctions on countries and communities that make any nonsense – but those who try well, they simply cannot be punished. Unfortunately, we cannot accept the BZÖ's second request, which concerns the classified population key. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go!]] It is, I think, good if the larger communities, which carry out the central tasks, are more allocated, so to speak, because many infrastructure services are only provided in the large communities. This is an old-known problem, and the solution is obvious. Finally, much has been said about a bank levy, and FPÖ is now making a request again – probably to make a nail sample with the SPÖ, because this request again contains this balance sheet sum tax, i.e. a bank tax which we believe is unintelligent. But I understand what you mean: The SPÖ should agree with your unintelligent proposal. Let's see if she does! We prefer something different: We want an intelligent banking tax, which catches the speculative balance sheet positions and thus really rationally leads to economic activity. – letter The next time you leave us, it will benefit you!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12298	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. Vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 600 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this draft, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. If you also give your consent at third reading, I ask for a sign. – The draft was also adopted unanimously at third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues on one-person companies – economic restraint in the municipalities. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Widmann, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the graduated population key in the 2008 Financial Balance Act. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The motion for a resolution does not find a majority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – The request is rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[12:09:32]] 2. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (601 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Housing Act, the Home Residence Act and the Criminal Enforcement Act (Novel Accommodation and Home Residence 2010 – Ub-HeimAuf-Nov 2010) (608 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12399	We're coming to the 2nd. Agenda item. First of all, Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12428	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that I am the only contra-redner on the whole of today's agenda. On the one hand, this is not a bad sign, but on the other hand it is because many important issues that are waiting for Austria, such as the administrative reform, the health reform, a tax reduction to raise purchasing power or an economic promotion package, are not on the agenda, because this federal government unfortunately has little to do in this difficult and sensitive time. We are dealing with other important things, but not very many, as is apparent from today's agenda. In this matter of law, we have thought for a very long time whether we should agree or not. There are certainly some points in the housing law and also in the home residence law that you could easily agree to. However, we consider others to be very sensitive, such as the fact that the mandatory double review should be removed in a psychiatric institution when patients are forced to stay in a mental institution and that only more than one doctor's opinion is sufficient to force a patient to be kept in an institution. That's what we think is wrong. There is a saving argument which concerns the countries, and it is also said that in practice there are no more two psychiatrists in the smaller institutions, who are permanently present in this institution, but these are just unsatisfying states. With all the need to make savings – and I said at the beginning of my speech, in the administrative area and also in the health field, there would be a lot of points where one could save, for example by investing more in prevention – where the personal freedom of people is concerned, one should be very sensitive. This can only be done to eliminate, as far as possible, any doubt as to the need for forced detention in an institution. That is why we are voting against the removal of the double review. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point: the so-called turn door effect. – It is quite reasonable to say that when patients are suffering from chronic, recurring mental suffering, you need to be careful not to release them at very short intervals again and again and again. It is therefore provided that they can be stopped in an establishment for a longer period, even if no acute treatment is necessary. In the interests and rights of citizens, only what we lack is a reference to the proportionality of the duration of detention compared to the danger of re-entry. We discussed this in committee. There should also be an evaluation. You're supposed to watch this. This is all beautiful and good, but we believe that you have to be very sensitive, and we therefore reject this provision of law. One point that we are very positive about is that from now on, the Society for Patient Procuratorship can represent the interests of the patients. It is also positive that in the Home Residence Act, measures can now be taken in relation to care services for patients not only by doctors, but also by caregivers and psychologists of the pedagogical disability system, as far as possible. This is certainly a useful measure, which contributes to improving efficiency and saving. We shall therefore request a separate vote at second reading. In third reading, however, we will reject this bill because of our concerns about the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12492	Next speaker: Mrs Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12513	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! In this novel of the Housing and Home Residence Act, it is essentially a matter of adapting details regarding freedom-absorbing measures in the mentally ill. In the course of time, there have been several changes in the psychiatry, so that now the accommodation of mentalally ill is carried out not only in special hospitals of the Psychiatry, but also in own departments of General Hospitals, that is, decentralized. Now this situation had to be taken into account, as it has been shown in practice that the constant presence of two specialists in small psychiatric departments is not possible. That is why a recording examination should be sufficient; so far, it has been two. However, a second examination should be carried out at the request of the patient or his representative or also of the physician. So, Mr Scheibner, the four-eye principle is enough, and I think that is good. [[Abg. Scheibner shakes his head no more.]] The patient is guaranteed that a second examination will be carried out if necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: The patient is not able to do this at all!]] Furthermore, the patient's representation should be adapted to the changes in the applicable law, so that representation by associations instead of a patient lawyer is possible. The relapse frequency, i.e. the so-called turning-door psychiatry, is to be prevented with this novelle. It has been shown that it will lead to a high relapse rate if the start of the accommodation is lifted too early. The patient should be sufficiently stabilised before being released. However, the continuation of accommodation must not be disproportionate. The Home Residence Act redefines the freedom-limiting measures in so far as the care services management or members of the raised health and health care service can arrange such measures – but only if the medical documentation is that there is a mental illness or mental disability. All in all, there are significant improvements for the patient, especially through decentralisation and the possibility of longer treatment of mentally ill patients. This reduces follow-up cases, which will also lead to a positive effect on the courts, because the risk of mental illness in another disease shift will also be reduced. It is gratifying that these effects are to be evaluated over the total duration of the accommodation by the resolution submitted. This will verify whether the objective of this novelle is also achieved. I think it's good that we decide today. It's a shame the BZÖ can't go there.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12557	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12580	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the officials of the Ministry of Justice, including Otto Pendl, who will no longer speak on this item on the agenda, and also you, Mrs Minister, for the very time-consuming work on this novel. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There were two working groups working out this government template, which is to be decided today. Mr Scheibner, it has not been clear to me today – I did not understand you already in committee – but your rejection is actually directed against it. You have justified your rejection of the rights of citizens. It affects both citizens and an environment. So I'd ask for clarification here. [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to continue the double review!]] The project of this novel is based on the fact that the current housing law has existed almost unchanged for 19 years and has to be adapted to the changed conditions presented by Mrs Franz. In fact, we should be glad that we have come away from the large central institutions to the small outpatient or psychiatric departments in hospitals and can thus also accommodate and care in the respective home areas. This has led to the existence in the small units of a not so large number of psychiatrists who are permanently held up, and that in turn has made the solution now available necessary and brought with them, saying that after the examination by the host department head, another review must be carried out at any time on the request of the person concerned or of an alternate, by noon of the next working day. This ensures that an all-needed not correct initial review can be corrected. The new regulation of the representation of the sick by the patient's prosecution is very important because it contributes to greater efficiency in the field of representation. As for the so-called turning door effect on which there was a long discussion, there must be a balance in the question of: What can one do that someone who will be released doesn't land again a week later where he went out? The choice of words found in this regard is very precise: If the probability that someone will come back soon can be significantly reduced by a proportionate extension of accommodation, then there will be such a one. There is also an explicit rule of limitation of other rights, which can be challenged at any time by the Court of First Instance and where proportionality is highlighted. That is to say, any measure must be absolutely necessary and it must not be possible without it to achieve or to hold the risk of others. It is to be said that, unfortunately, in many homes, especially in private homes – Mr Maier will express himself more comprehensively in the course of his speech – we still find scandalous conditions. But something has to be done. The law provides for good regulations. On the other hand, it is the case that the decision-making process will first be divided into measures in the homes, depending on what action it is about. It is carried out each by doctors or nurses or by the health and health services. It is important that the resident responsible for a home is entitled at any time – and this is really an epochal progress – to get access to the home, regardless of whether or not the homekeeper wants to see the documents there and can contact both the persons concerned and the care staff in order to ensure that evil does not exist, and in the event that such a person exists, to ensure that it is stopped. The fact that the admissibility of restrictions on freedom can now be imposed by the Court of First Instance is another step towards a measure corresponding to one of the respective situations. A further step in the right direction is that the whole, which can be re-examined by justification, can no longer be maintained, even if the maintenance, in this case the accommodation, is no longer in the right direction. I think that's a round matter. The evaluation that we will also decide today will certainly show whether there is still a need for improvement, and if so, we will consider it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12629	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12650	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We agree with this law, as we have already said in the Committee on Justice, and we can, of course, develop concerns in the direction of some provision presented here. My previous speakers have already said the most important thing, so that it is not necessarily necessary to refer the main points again. The apostrophic principle of proportionality, which is enshrined in the law in order to avoid the so-called turning-door psychiatry, is a correct approach. It is true that by decentralizing – which is desirable to avoid waterhead-like systems and to do as far as possible at a decentralised level, what can be done there – it is not possible to keep two psychiatric experts permanently, which is why it is a compensatory possibility for the regulation to be taken up in the future to provide an opinion or to carry out an opinion. Of course, it is true that the person concerned is only difficult to apply for the control of the initial opinion by another opinion or that this may or may be difficult, but the possibility is given that a second opinion is requested by the associations working there, or by the head of the institution or by the doctor. It speaks more of the practical reason for recasting this law as it is proposed. However, the evaluation is important, so we will also vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Because we are in the Chapter on Justice, it is also appropriate to talk about things that are otherwise discussed in the public with regard to justice. The “Kronen Zeitung” today has the author on the front page: ‘Residence for serious criminals’. It cites the possibility of § 133a Criminal Enforcement Act: ‘Has a convict half of the term of punishment, but at least three months, shall be fined, may be provisionally excluded from the further execution of the penalty.’ It is also suggested that “the “Creme de la Crème” of the serious criminals was released: two dozen robbers, two rapists and one Turk who had to sit because of “severe sexual abuse of the unmistakable”. ‘In addition, the killers of the Mafiapat come from 1996.’ And so on and so on. What does that mean? – I ask you to remember that you do not convert this kann-destination into a must-destination. Hard criminals mentioned here are certainly not to be welcomed by the historical intentions behind this standard, which we have rejected by the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You also have to consider: The execution of the penalty has to be done in accordance with public opinion – not as it can now be understood in the foreground, but with the sense of legal peace that is to be sought in the population. It is not a question of serious and serious criminals using the above-mentioned provision, even if the promise is linked to their going abroad and never coming back – this is a rather theoretical wish in the Schengen area – being released at an early stage. Last point: I take the view from the last Committee on Justice that we will seek a parliamentary survey as soon as possible on matters relating to the non-dispute settlement of rights of visitation and dispute. I would ask from here again not to explore the urgency of these materials and to work vigorously to improve the current state of affairs. In conclusion: It is worrying if, in the direction of those who organize themselves as self-help groups, I mean fathers who are affected, they are determined using the “mafia paragraph” without the prosecution behind it. Then we'd have a police out of control. Keywords: Protectors, where there was also enough evil to argue. This should be taken into account, or at least carefully, by the rule of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12726	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12748	Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the debate on the housing law of § 32a – which is discussed here under “Drehtür-Psychiatry” – we have also been most concerned. It is basically the case that a person can be stopped if there is a serious and significant risk. The current provision extends the possibility of retention by providing that a continuation should be further possible if, in the event of a suspension likely to occur in the foreseeable future, a restriction of freedom is required again. This is probably not a fundamental departure from the intention of the accommodation law, but it is at least a slight correction. Mr Scheibner, as much as we are close to each other regarding criticism, I do not share your view that no proportionality assessment is necessary – you said, perhaps you did not mean it that way – because that is the essential point that distinguishes the draft from the ministerial draft here, and I think this is an important distinction. [[Abg. Scheibner: I didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Scheibner:... inaccurate!]] Nevertheless – and this is the crucial point – it is not intentioned to increase the number of people in the psychiatry massively. The danger that remains, however, is that this change of law has exactly this effect. Therefore, the evaluation of this provision was particularly important to us – so that we can see at an early stage whether this slight correction leads to a development which we do not really want. But you have to ask yourself a fundamental question, and that is whether the lawyers must not do away with a health maladministration. It is a question of why this “drew-door-psychiatry” comes about – whether this is an indication that psychiatric after-supply does not work, which is why the people concerned are coming back again and again and now – through this new provision – one is trying to eliminate this health-political disability. I think there are some clues to this conclusion. As I said, The evaluation makes it possible for us to agree – because I believe that the intention to do so is fair. You have to see the dangers, too. The second point – which has also been raised – is the question of the departure from the four-eye principle when taking up the accommodation law. We also see this as a problem, even if it is possible, in principle, that the patient can request a second opinion. The question arises whether he will be able to do so in the specific situation – that was also a criticism of the “representation network”. There too, it will be necessary to look carefully at whether the protection rights of patients are not undermined. On the one hand, the cost factor is a constant companion of the debate, and I am also a bad companion in the case of Mr Scheibner, because in this particular, difficult situation we should already have in mind the patients. On the other hand, the second and exciting point is always the argument of the lack of staff, namely that the necessary psychiatrists would not be available especially on weekends or at night. I am sorry that one has not asked the question whether clinical psychologists could also make this second opinion. We agree because in all this ambivalence there are some improvements in this law. In order not only to be criticised, but also to appreciate the positive, I would particularly like to mention the possibility of subsequent review of restrictions and treatments under the accommodation law. This is a step forward and brings improvement to those concerned, and therefore there is our approval as a result of the evaluation. In two years, however, we should consider exactly where these changes in the law lead, so that we do not achieve an effect that we do not really want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12804	Mrs Mag. Bandion-Ortner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12825	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This novel is the result of a 2006 survey. Experience from the application practice has now been incorporated into the Housing Act and the Home Residence Act. There have been very numerous intensive discussions with all parties involved, and a good result has been achieved. The procedure to be followed is now to be more precise, more practical and, above all, to facilitate the admission process by requiring more than one opinion. will be – but, of course, a second opinion can also be obtained on request. This facilitates decentralized treatment. I think it is in all our interest that the residents stay close to their family and are not too far away from their social environment. They are also less stigmatized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Legal protection for patients should be extended, i.e. there is now a general clause which improves this legal protection. It should also not be mentioned that the law now aims to regulate the fact that residents are allowed to put on their private clothes and have personal items, even if they move outdoors every day. The “drew-door-psychiatry” – that’s this keyword – should be prevented and a cure enabled. This will prevent a person from discharged early and thus retreating. The Home Residence Act is also subject to changes, namely insofar as decisions on restrictions of freedom are now to be assigned to the competent professional group. In addition, a general clause is introduced and created, leading to a judicial review of all restrictions on freedom. A sentence – which is perhaps not insignificant in times like this – is that this project is cost-neutral for the federal government and for the countries, as a supporter of hospitals, has budgetary even positive sides. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12885	Next speaker: Mr Glaser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12907	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In my view, it is also noteworthy in this law that it has been developed in broad areas together with two working groups. I would like to mention the umbrella association of the old and care homes of Austria. This law is therefore also expressly welcomed by those who have to work with it. This law, of course, also brings substantial benefits to those who have been widely addressed. For me, it is also important – as Mrs Bundesminister said – that further healing of patients is possible and that they should not be released after the acute threat is removed. It is also important to me that there is a clearer and wider system for the entry of representatives of residents, and clearly it is also important that after two years of evaluation, the individual points contained in this law are carefully looked at. In conclusion, I would just like to say that every accommodation in homes – and be it only the usual nursing homes – is a source of tension for those affected, but also for family members, mostly with difficulties. I therefore believe that it is very important that we create a good legal basis. However, I also believe that a good leadership of the respective houses and a corresponding good training and a corresponding commitment of the staff are very important. We know that this is not the case in all homes to the extent that we would like it to be, and that improvements are desirable. But I also believe that we are all people in these areas. be grateful to them for their very responsible work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12949	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e12970	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I too would like to extend my thanks to the people in the home who are committed and sacrificeful to this difficult activity. High House, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Hannes Jarolim, our judge, has already explained our argument – which I fully support – before us. I also support the Green Judge's statement that it is necessary to carry out an evaluation of these amendments after two years. However, I would like to see the opportunity, as in the Committee on Justice, to point out a particular problem in the home area, namely the conditions under which people in homes – both in private and in public – are accommodated and how to deal with them. Now everything is clear: There is the Home Treaty Act, there is the Consumer Protection Act – and everyone will believe that the home bearers comply with these provisions. High House, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case. Legal provisions are simply ignored by home-carriers, regardless of whether from the public sector or from the private sector. We cannot accept this, ladies and gentlemen, in the long run. The Ministry of Consumer Protection reviewed over 300 home contracts three years ago and also carried out warnings. The de facto situation has not changed. It is still about the issues of unilateral reductions in performance, unilateral changes in the contract and, of course, also about the money. Finally, we will have to answer the question of who actually controls compliance with legal provisions in homes, because neither the countries nor the Federation are responsible for this. Of course, we can also find the rule that home contracts must be made mandatory to the judicial body or the consumer protection ministry, especially when public funds are used. Mrs. Federal Minister, my appeal – and the appeal of our group – is to take measures together with the Ministry of Consumer Protection to ensure that the legal provisions in the home are complied with.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13017	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13038	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think that this law is essentially good. However, allow me to say: When reference is made to the fact that a law is based on practice, one can see it very differently. There is a practice in the psychiatry and a practice of the health system, which should not be taken without a comment, and this is particularly true of the field of mental illness. The law, of course, responds to an environment, but it should not bow to an environment, but rather show the deficits. It would be a task in itself for several committees to look at this once. It is a fact that forced orders and accommodations reduce the very essential rights of an individual. But you also need to know what extent and what intensity mental diseases can take and how free people who have a schizophrenic boost and everything they perceive – hallucinations, voices, orders – see as reality! You have to help these people and not discriminate against them. It is also necessary to prevent psychiatric diseases – and it is the fact that WHO and the Court of Auditors are massively criticising the situation in Austria: insufficient amounts of data, uncoordinated psychiatric reforms without clear implementation steps, without sustainable financing plans, without a long-term strategic approach. Federal policy measures do not take effect because countries are blocking themselves and federal conflicts are preventing improvements in federalism. One knows that it often takes five years to obtain a really professional diagnosis for mentally ill people – until they finally come to a right place for treatment. It is known that treatment options outside of stationary facilities – daily clinics, ambulatorys, outpatient care in the settled area – have been seriously neglected in Austria. In some rural areas, redundancies are almost negligent, because in de facto there is no current, appropriate and appropriate provision – something needs to be done. We know that 1 400 people each year in Austria take their own lives – almost three times as many as traffic deaths. If one expects what is done for the safety of transport, the safety of motor vehicles, the safety of pedestrians, I would like to use a fraction for safety and for the current treatment of psychologically ill people. That must be the subject of the debate. Before that, Parliament should definitely not close its eyes. If you look at the situation in Europe, you can see that it is very heterogeneous: There are countries where six forced orders are registered for 100 000 inhabitants. Other countries have 218 forced orders per 100 000 inhabitants. In any case, Austria is in the front third. Some countries have a period of validity of the first limit of one week, others of two years – you have to make yourself aware of that. The situation in Austria is still great. So, what I wish for is that this issue also leads to a dialogue between the health sector and the judicial community, because then some measures may be much better, much more targeted and possibly rare. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, I also demand that we – and I do not exclude my party – not every forced treatment, not every therapy in the psychiatry sees as something diabolic, but also as a means of helping people and avoiding relapses. What we have not discussed now is the area of dementia: How can they endanger themselves? How do you deal with this? It already depends on which care keys are applied in homes. Just because the staff is not there and those who are there do not know how to help themselves are an Austrian and not rare scandal that belongs to a disabled person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13101	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13123	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Scheibner, you are so incredible. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank God! I don't mind.]] As a Tyrolean, it is always surprising to me how many Members here in the House are focused solely on the conditions in Vienna. [[Abg. Scheibner: To the people who are delivered to the institutions, it doesn't matter whether in Innsbruck or Vienna! That's a funny argument!]] The colleague Steinhauser is probably also – I suppose he is now – because I admit that it is quite possible for me to organize psychiatric care in Vienna in such a way that where someone comes to the weekend, there are also really two doctors. But I can't imagine this in very small district hospitals. [[Call the Greens:Lienz!]] Yes, like in Lienz or in Reutte or elsewhere. We make a law for the conditions throughout Austria, where it is very important that patients who are mentally and clinically caring for the country can at last be cared for at all once – in their own home region. I am right for Mr Grünewald and my colleague when they say that psychiatric care in Austria is still in a lamentable state. We have far too few children psychiatrists, we have far too few specialists for psychiatry, and yes, depression is a common disease and the suicides exceed other types of deaths a multiple. Therefore, I am very happy that in order to prevent what has always been so bureaucratically called a “threat-effect” – which is nothing more than that really acute suicide-hazarded persons, these are not criminals who are usually stopped, but people who come to a small psychiatric department with a severe depression will be released after they have received three or four days of mood-lighting and driving drugs, which, of course, is not at all suitable for the retention of the next push five days later – now finally a reasonable and appropriate treatment is at last possible at all. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this and I hope that, together, we will really continue in the field of psychiatric care for the population in Austria. However, to diagnose clinical psychologists who do very valuable work in many respects, I am convinced that, given the diversity of psychiatric diseases, such a diagnosis must be ignored, whether acute medical support is needed or not, cannot be the appropriate instrument. I am now grateful, and I believe that this issue will be very broad and long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13187	Next speaker: Mrs Steßl-Mühlbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13208	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The amendments to the Housing Act take into account the experience in practice so far. 19 years after the entry into force of this law, a novelle is necessary. In the field of psychiatry structural changes occurred, there was decentralization. Instead of staying in larger institutions for Psychiatry, patients are now treated in their own psychiatric departments in general hospitals. This is a less problematic situation for patients. What are the changes to this novel? – As Mr Scheibner and Mr Steinhauser have already said, there is only more need for an investigation. The second is not completely replaced, but this second examination can be carried out at the request of the patient or the patient, as well as his or her representative or doctor. This also responds to the new structure in the psychiatry. The amendment makes it clear that a medical document on mental illness or disability must be available. The resolution adopted unanimously in the Committee on Justice also obliges the Minister of Justice to evaluate the rules and report them to Parliament within two years. My previous speakers have repeatedly addressed the so-called turn-door effect or the turn-door psychiatry. Mr Steinhauser believes that this is also often an outflow of the health system here in Austria. In my opinion, accommodation is often abolished too early, because the first treatment success already eliminates the acute risk and therefore the legal conditions for accommodation are not met. I see the problem in the fact that patients are often not sufficiently stabilised, so that after discharge a deterioration of the disease and consequently a risk that often requires a new accommodation is detected. Our Judge, Mr Jarolim, has already put forward the principle of proportionality, which is stated in the amendment. I just want to mention a few numbers. Of the 15 000 accommodations in 2008, 1 100 patients were accommodated more than three times in a psychiatric department within the same calendar year. Summary: The novelle should allow longer treatment. Follow-up accommodation should be reduced, and changes should take into account practice. The changes to the Home Accommodation Act have already been described in detail. Overall, this innovation takes into account the practice and will look at the extent to which the measures have taken place after the evaluation. On behalf of Mr Scheibner, because he has been evocative about today's agenda: I would just like to remind you that you are blocking children's rights and the Services Directive, Mr. Cot. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are just two points from many!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13251	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13272	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, With great joy I now look at a very well-filled visitor gallery, because it is also good once that so many visitors can be present at an agenda item, where a lot of content, subject-oriented and solution-oriented is discussed – I know, Mr Scheibner – and not, as usual, much is discussed and polemized here. [[Abg. Scheibner: We always discuss matters!]] Very often, this house is discussed objectively and neatly, and I am very pleased that so many young guests are here and can experience it live once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As in the meantime, as with the housing and home residence novels, I believe, eleven previous speakers have already been described in detail, the housing law from 1990 and the 2005 home residence law. There have been some practical adjustment needs here. These have been taken into account. I am saving you and me to go back to these big points, because you have actually heard it 11 times, ten times per, once double. To the counter-retarder disk: I believe that the protection of patients' rights has been taken into account with the possibility of receiving a second opinion on request from a second doctor. And the principle of proportionality, which you also missed, is in § 32 of the Housing Act. I believe that this criticism is at least attenuated. [[Abg. Scheibner: Everything's weakened!]] I believe that the evaluation is also important. You should do this again and again when you pass laws: see how they work. In this sense, I would like to thank you for your very much support. Perhaps the BZÖ will also weaken this criticism a little. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13331	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13352	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I too would like to join in with these points of discussion. Of course, we did not act out of a mood with the housing law and the home residence law, but the basis was a survey, the basics were the findings from practice, and I think this is very important. However, it is essential to give a particular space to a situation, and this should be the case in all measures restricting freedom: This is, on the one hand, the respect of human rights, but above all, it is also important to pay attention to the dignity of human beings. We know that this is particularly important for mentally ill people. Therefore, it has also been the aim of reducing certain freedom-restriction measures to a minimum, even in the old housing law. But we also know that in the housing law for diseases that are psychological, the consequences of injunctions are sometimes very dramatic. Just think of follow-up effects under the driving licence law or think of follow-up effects provided by the Waffengesetz. In other words, this should be done with very special care. This is best done through measures that Dr. Grünewald has also addressed and which in advance are already aimed at preventing diseases in this form from happening in principle. Therefore, it was also an important aspect of the law to make the stay as short as possible. But it has been shown that for those affected this topic with the turning door is a very essential topic. That's not a nice keyword, but it's really fitting. You can't forget – if I'm from the point of view now the Executive Officer may speak – that in the case of very many instructions, in the case of very many cases of illness, rescue organizations are also involved, whose employees want to save and who often go into danger. Think of suicide risks. Here comes the rescue, the fire brigade, the police. If you can avoid that, that's also a positive thing. This is linked to immense stress for all parties involved. I believe that we should work together, because it is above all a massive stress for the sick person. The rescue organizations are, of course, willing to go into danger to save someone, but if we could avoid that, that would be a very positive success. I therefore see this legislation as particularly positive. It is also a special success that it has also sought to bring about changes under the Home Residence Act which will enable it to be able to discuss properly even on this delicate subject of restrictions of freedom. For this, a warm thank you in the sense of the people who really need our support here.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13398	Next speaker: Mr Köfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13419	High house! This accommodation law and its planned innovation can be seen internationally! – These praises are not from me, but from a native German who has been running a psychiatric department of a hospital for some time. However, it would be surprising if a German would sometimes also praise the Austrian conditions, and so he also found in this praise a hair in the soup, namely concrete flaws that the assessment of compulsory allocations by the district courts or by the patient lawyers in Austria must only take place within four days, while, on the other hand, this must be done in Germany between 12 and 36 hours. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] For 19 years now, this housing law has been in force in Austria in its unchanged form, and if this change is now being made, it is not done in the form of a hip shot, but is probably prepared and with the involvement of numerous well-known experts. This is also a good thing, because it is a very sensitive matter, in which every step is very likely to be considered. Already in 2006 the experts articulated that the accommodation law had proved itself well in practice, but there were still some details that require an adjustment. One of the most important aspects of the innovation will be the fact that a specialist attestation is sufficient at the time of the recording – which we have heard several times – and only on request a second one must be created by a specialist. With this change, the legislator wants to facilitate and also takes into account the decentralisation of psychiatry, and this is very important, of the developments taking place in rural areas. However, I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity, as district mayor of the second largest Austrian district, Spittal an der Drau, to make it very clear that we are receiving the long promised psychosomatic clinic in Millstatt. It is unbearable for our patients to continue in case of need after Klagenfurt and since the very latest must also avoid to Lienz.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13470	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13492	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's a good thing if that's a consensual matter, but – like I imagined – a niche wasn't addressed here, of course. If we are talking about the law on accommodation, even if we are talking about the law on enforcement, we must also talk about those who are becoming more and more involved in the judicial system – I have already said this here about this speaker, Mrs. Federal Minister, very often – because if this development continues, the Austrian judicial institutions are at some point pure psychiatry. Let us see the figures of the cases of accommodation according to § 21 para. 1 StGB, above all, Mrs Federal Minister, let us look at the development of accommodation according to § 21 para. 2 StGB, and let me just go to one point in this area, to the cases of § 429 StPO, which are in preparation for § 21 para. 1 StGB. I have represented this forever, and unfortunately many sad cases of God must be experienced in close proximity. Saving is important, saving is good, and at the time I was one of the few who were against it, because the national financial experts only wanted the costs away. The Federation has negotiated this, and justice has it today. I say quite openly: Either he's sick, then he's in the health system, or he's not sick, then he's from me in other areas. But, Mrs. Minister, that was clear decades ago when it was introduced. The Court of Auditors has always said that external regulations are the most expensive. Now we are making internal regulations, and I really urge you – our support you have – to do something. I was in Asten now, and I looked at it. At the branch of Asten the execution centre Linz is used for that according to § 21 para. 1 StGB Houser to set up a facility. Yes, Mrs Minister, believe You're really sure you'll only be able to run such a facility with special services? I tell you, I know the story of Göllersdorf from the first hour. There we have had it forever in such a way that 50 percent of the total staff were guards – in the interest of the doctors, the nurses, the nurses and the therapists. I don't want to take up a sad incident of the Josefstadt right now, but I don't think you have to be careful in such cases. I am glad that the colleague is on the way to recovery. I'm bringing him out from this point of view – he's gotten a stomachstick; I don't know who got it – to express my or our common recovery wishes. Just, Mrs. Minister, what do you mean, in the line of hierarchy, that, if not daily service, the care staff opens prison rooms? Don't be mad at me! When considering the personal security of people, I also expect a service authority to react clearly here, because that would probably have been possible. I already know what the psychiatrists tell me and the doctors and all those working in special service. Only, I would really ask you, and I think you have our common support, which is no question at all: But to open up asts with a handful of executive officials, and the rest are nurses, therapists, doctors, psychiatrists, female women mostly – yes, Mrs. Minister, especially respect for saving: When it comes to safety, too In order to ensure the personal safety of our employees, I invite you that we will jointly find a solution so that our colleagues can go home without any damage to their service, which is still difficult enough. That's what I'd really ask you to do!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13540	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 608 of the Supplements. He is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Mr Steinhauser and Mr Scheibner. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article I.Z.8 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on Articles I.Z. 11 to 14 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a sign. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Article II Z 2 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who speak for it to be a sign. – This too is unanimously adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the 608 committee report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 81.) [[13:08:55]] 3rd. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its collection of average income such as the additional benefits for pensions in the public sector of the Federal Government in 2007 and 2008 (III-100/605 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13644	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Mag. Mag. has spoken. Lap. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13672	Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! We are dealing here with the income report on the public economy. There has been an increase in employees' incomes by 13 percent in 2007 and 2008 and an increase in board incomes by 6 percent. 392 companies have been examined or have submitted a questionnaire, including 592 Boards, 1 202 Supervisory Boards and more than 180 000 employees. If you look at the managers' salaries of 902 audited annual reports, there has been a gap among salaries in such a way that employees earn by 10 percent less during this period and directors by 100 percent more. The range of differences between employees and public sector boards and in listed enterprises is also very, very large. In the public sector, the board of directors earn from 2- to 6-fold of employees' salaries; in the case of listed companies, this range ranges from 5 to 48 times. A claim for disclosure of manager salaries is set out here. However, this is in no way possible in the case of listed companies. In the case of 902 audited annual reports, only 76 companies have published manager salaries, which is 8.4 percent. That is to say, the demand for greater transparency is appropriate in all areas and should be kept in place in parts of the economy, which includes not only the public sector but also the private sector, because this transparency is particularly necessary in order to better represent areas of redistribution and distribution in our society. An important innovation in this Court of Auditors report is the presentation of the proportion of women. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the differences between women's and men's salaries are still in a very large line. The universities are a good example of this because the previous government has set itself the task of bringing in many women in supervisory positions to the universities, and there is a 40 percent female share there. In the public sector, the proportion of women is 16 percent, and there is also a slight increase. However, in listed companies, only 9 percent are women. That is why the demand of our Minister of Women Heinisch-Hosek is very important that an disclosure of the incomes of men and women should be kept within the holding, because only this disclosure brings a visualisation of performance and remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen, you are certainly all of my opinion that the work of women in Austria should be of equal value!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13712	Mr Steindl was mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13735	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! Thank you very much, Mr President, for the really comprehensive and very meaningful report that is being drawn up every two years. The report covers the remuneration and income of managers and managing directors as well as the employees of the companies in public hands. It is mainly undertakings in which the Court of Auditors can also carry out the relevant checks. As said, the average income for board members or managing directors in companies with federal holdings is between € 140 000 and € 150 000 per year between 2005 and 2008. In 2007 and 2008, there were 24 or 23 companies with an average income of the board members or the managing director, which is above the level of the Federal Chancellor's salary of 278 800 € in 2007 and 283 200 € in 2008. It is therefore remarkable that 49 Boards 2008 and 50 Boards in 2007 are above this income of the Federal Chancellor. What is also interesting: that alone 16 of them are in the ÖBB Group. That is to say, the Austrian Federal Railway, which just in 2008 had no particularly successful year with a drop of € 965.9 million, has planned its managers with 50 percent bonuses and, as has been said, still needed a corresponding grant from the public hand, which will amount to about €7 billion in 2009. It should be true that credit ratings will only be paid if appropriate successes – such as profits – are shown in enterprises. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As my previous speaker said, the proportion of women in the board has also increased, at least to 11.2 percent and 11.6 percent respectively in 2007 and 2008. In the Supervisory Boards, the share rose from 13.9 percent in 2007 to 16.1 percent in 2008. This is a good signal, and I think we should continue to try to ensure that women move to board levels. As already pointed out, it is a good thing that the increase in employees' salaries was about 13 percent stronger than that of some managing directors and board members in these close-to-state companies. However, there is also a wormhead drop here: In the case of the ÖBB, the reverse was the case: With the ÖBB, the manager salaries increased by 30 percent, the employees' salaries by 21 percent. This goes through here like a red thread, and I personally cannot quite understand that in the ÖBB, although the benefits are not so special, this also depends on the basic salaries, the bonuses and so on again and again. Special attention should also be paid to the Austrian National Bank and its costs. There is not only the highest income of employees – with an average income of €78 000 per employee – but also the income of the board of directors should be very high. These are not officially announced either. But it seems to me that the pension scheme is particularly problematic for all those who took place before 1993, and that is at least more than 1,000 of the employees in the Austrian National Bank. 1 102 Active are currently facing 1 297 pensioners. The pension provision for the Oesterreichische National Bank alone has to be paid at €2.1 billion. This is therefore already a particularly complex matter, including for the Austrian state and its finances. In comparison: In the Electricity industry, where it also deserves a lot of money, requires a supply of € 825 million for 5 814 people. The salaries of the ORF are also significantly higher than the industry average at 74 500 €. Here it is again noted that this, of course, also entails a significant competitive disadvantage in international comparison. I just hope we don't get the way we did at the AUA, where we also had too high salaries for years and decades and finally found a farm that was no longer competitive. The result should therefore be to make every effort to have competitive salaries and wages. They should be sound in performance, and there should be a moral responsibility somewhere else. I hear about social justice all the time, at various events. If one reads that there are board members like the OMC, for example, Mr Ruttenstorfer, who, with a total remuneration of €2.1 million per year and with the pension benefits, refers to the 50 times of an average employee, then I think that should be rethinked. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13806	As the next speaker, Mr Königshofer is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13827	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! I can only say: Thank God there is a Court of Auditors in that State, and thank God there is a very touching Court of Auditors among the current President, which is publishing reports that are truly exposing to the institutions and companies that have been observed! Ladies and gentlemen, this is about salaries in the public and in the public sector, and I would particularly like to take two companies out. On the one hand, these are the Austrian Bundesbahnen, the ÖBB-Holding, where the members of the board earned an average of €726,000 gross in 2007. The Austrian Chancellor earns €283,000, so the rulers there have earned a lot of what the Austrian Federal Chancellor deserves. The second company: In 2008, the average income of the Austrian airline board members was €858 600, i.e. also a multiple of what the Austrian Federal Chancellor deserves. But let's take a look at the companies. I would first like to address the ÖBB, the Austrian Federal Railways, so that you can see how the managers there stuff their pockets with the money of Austrian taxpayers. The Austrian Bundesbahnen – I was at the press conference in March 2009, even the previous speaker has already said it – presented a balance sheet loss of €996 million in 2008! And what, ladies and gentlemen, is the consequence? – Not that the Board of Directors of these companies again requires salaries or imposes damages against these managers, no: The success was that the owner's representative, Mrs Bures, has negotiated with the Supervisory Board that these managers, who have generated such a loss, have also received a credit rating of €4 million and write. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a huge acidity! That is not how it can be done, so it cannot be managed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you do not need to believe... – Yes, Mr Faul, where is the Director-General of the Federal Railway: the highest trade unionist? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] He does the business there: Haberzetl. He is now upset by the reduction in pensions. But again on this balance sheet: Who pays for these credits and losses? – At the same time as the credits of €4 million were decided for the board members, an increase in railway tariffs for the railway drivers was also said and written 4.9 percent per 1. ==References== On the one hand, losses, on the other credits for the rivets in the needle strip – and the train customers have to pay the token for it! As the second company, I'm still bringing you the Austrian Airlines. You know what happened there: A managing director, an electrical engineer from Siemens, who has never worked in an air carrier, became Director General – Mr. Ing. Ötsch – and has flown this company in the graves in the truest sense of the word. At the beginning of 2008, Mr Ötsch, Director-General, said that the AUA had been renovated; a year later, we had to find that the AUA was pleading! If we did not succeed in selling, giving to the government's negotiating team – that's what he needs to do – the Austrian Airlines to Lufthansa, I do not know what I'm supposed to call selling, giving them, placing them there, with a subsidy of €500 million, then today the Austrian Airlines would no longer exist as airlines. And what about Mr. Ing? Epoching Happened? – He left the company and for the disaster he left there, he received another €1.1 million in discharge from the state, from this company! Ladies and gentlemen, this report still lists many such horrors. One could also talk about the e-business, where the executive directors deserve the fourfold of an Austrian Chancellor, where they work without competition and are not prepared to reduce the electricity prices in Austria, which would also be their national economic task. We would like to thank the Court of Auditors once again for the detailed presentation of these, I would like to say, immoral conditions as they exist here in the country. We will therefore also vote in favour of this report, but call on the respective members of the government, especially a Mrs Transport Minister Bures or an Economic Minister, to act on this matter and to end such exaggerations as they are presented here in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13906	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. 5 minutes of speaking time are adjusted as desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e13928	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I would like to refer to another aspect, which has been ruled out so far, and which the list of speakers is not going to happen to the following speakers, namely the gender aspect. I know that this is a nuisance to some, but it is worth it, and I thank you for the first time this time, namely the different incomes of men and women, and also the occupation of men and women. Councils and Boards, broken down according to their proportion of men and women. This is very informative, not necessarily happy, but at least meaningful. Progress in the recruitment of women in management positions is only slowing down, as the report shows. If you compare it: From 2007 to 2008, there has been an increase of 11.2 percent to 11.6 percent. That's very, very little, that's marginal, you can say. That would mean: If this goes on, then in a hundred years, we are there that there is a semi-equivalent occupation of directors and management in the public economy with men and women. What's sad, too, is: There are still, and this is what the report shows us, a number of board members and executives who are completely unoccupied with women. I would just like to mention examples of iron, steel and metal processing, but also of air transport, since there are eleven men standing at zero women, or also from road traffic, there are seven men to zero women. These are indications that something has to be done pretty quickly. One question also arises: Why are some companies, including the ÖBB, unable to break down the different incomes of men and women? - Maybe you have an answer to that. To me, it's mysterious and not quite clear that this is the case. Once again, the slow development is also evident. I therefore think that such proposals, as they come from the State Secretariat of State Secretary Marek, which is to introduce an Academy of Women's Executive Directors and thus make women more competent for the board of directors more necessary, I consider that they are relatively necessary, because that implies that women need to be re-helped. I don't think women need some help. I simply believe that man – and “man” wrote with double N – must finally make room for women in the board sets and that they do not need to be helped. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The economic crisis has also proved that in the male-occupied boards not everything went very well and that a female share might not result in any damage there. I'm convinced. In one area, there is an increase, namely in supervisory councils, from 13.9 percent to 16.1 percent. And why? – Because something has changed in the University Supervisory Councils as the quota has been introduced there. That is, everything points out once again that in the public economy, one must probably introduce a minimum of 40 per cent – we would say, a 50 per cent – quota, so that something can be done, too, in all the governing bodies. As long as nothing does – and this is also shown in the report – it obviously does nothing for the salaries. The salaries in the management sets show that women earn about a third less, in the best-paid industries even by half. And this is quite, certainly not because women are less competent, but that they simply have the worse lobby that has worse networks and much less come to the train. You can shake the head, it's a fact! You can read it in the report. Explain to me why it is, Mrs. Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] There are many other questions. It is therefore positive that all of this is listed in this report and made transparent. I'm glad that that's what I'm doing, too. This will continue to be the case. In any case, this results in a great deal of need for action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14003	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14024	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! My previous speaker spoke about women's quotas. This was, of course, very well emphasized in the report. I give you the same income for the same work on the point. What I am keeping up with – and this is also the line of our group – is a forced women's quota of what-and-how-a-much percent. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: 50, colleague! 50!]] We believe that there are enough women who do good work and who can also come up and come up through their good work, and so should be. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now the Court of Auditors report on the incomes of the public sector, i.e. close-to-state enterprises: It is already a matter of concern to me when I see that the Boards of 24 companies have a higher salary than the President of the Federal Chancellor. You have to ask yourself what a risk these 24 areas have. The risk cannot really be higher than that of the Federal Chancellor. I think that's very unfair. I would like to address the ÖBB, which are now in all mouths; they are, as it were, top riders in this regard. They did not seem to have found the recipe for success. If you have observed the reports from the field of public health in the media lately, you can see that they have not really been successful. It is also questionable what these executives will receive success fees for. Of course, the same question is also asked at the AUA. The AUA was already the subject of Mr Königshofer. Mr Ötsch, whom you have addressed, earned €523,000 in 2007, €334,000 in 2006, in which he worked for a three-quarters of a year. Thomas Kleifl earned €469 200 in 2007 and Josef Burger, a three-quarters-year-old, €404,000. If you say that the Federal Chancellor deserves €283,000, then you can see that this is already a bit bad. Looking at the year 2006, I see Mr Sørensen with € 871,000. So that's very big numbers! If you look at how those of the AUA have flown against the wall, you have to ask yourself if these bonuses are justified or if there should have been no ponales paid for what these rulers have done. I think that would be the right procedure. Then you could also justify high salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other great examples in this report. Also the post is an example for these 24 very high salaries. With the “little ones” you can take off and see that you bring the “small” posters to the police or – what I know – in any “reception camp” and save posts, but the board salaries are driven up. The connection has already been addressed. It is not at all understandable that after the world economic crisis, energy prices did not fall again after everything became cheaper; they remained high. The directors of the Board of Directors fully stop their pockets. This is just a lack of control. We can continue this at ASFINAG. The “small” toll-sheriffs are “beated” – colleague Grosz has once shown this by an example of how it is going to happen – that they bring in sales accordingly, otherwise they will be terminated. That's not how it's done! Upstairs the pockets are stuffed, and down you build and save! The Committee then hears that Mr Reichhold was adopted with a “golden handshake”. That's where I've got to say: It was a political cleansing action and nothing else. And that's where you've been buying that someone still has a contract open and that you put a lot of money in there just to get rid of it politically. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot continue! Another example is the ORF; there too the Privilegienstadel is known everywhere. I would also like to address the National Bank. If you see that the average national bank board is twice as high as the highest of the ASVG, then there can be something wrong. From the cleaning woman to the governor, they receive an average of €70 000 pension. Of course, the cleaning woman does not get €70 000, but the top salaries are accordingly high. If one considers that these rulers, who are already riding there during their active time in the Privilegienstadel Oesterreichische Nationalbank, then one must already touch the head and ask: Where does public control remain here? This is about public money, ladies and gentlemen. I am glad that the President of the Court of Auditors is so much behind it and that the Court of Auditors is so well-controlled. So: typical privilege stadium of red and black. Where red and black are inside, the preferences rejoice. I still have a small example from the “Azirksblatt Alsergrund” where it reads: Pensioner privileges in Vienna Hospitals. Magistrate pensions have increased enormously. Hospital nurses who are released for ten years receive the pension further paid by the city of Vienna. – That's how it works in the red Vienna. These are privileges that belong to those that are abolished, ladies and gentlemen. I can only ask you from the Federal Government – unfortunately there is no one there, but you will certainly tell it – to make order here. The President of the Court of Auditors, together with his staff, will take care of this. I would like to thank you for the good work and wish you still toi, toi, toi, good luck and good luck! They'll show you a lot more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14076	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Herbs. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14097	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the income report, of course, ÖBB, ÖIAG and AUA are significant. This has been mentioned several times. There really is a sharp misunderstanding between the tax pay performance and the performance of those ordered at the time. I remember: Speculations, fragmentation, misconceptions, the mismanagement. This is a good opportunity to point out that you already have to see this in a very timely context. Unfortunately, Mr Lopatka – and I cannot spare him at this point – has been very, very questionable lately. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Successful!]] I believe that one of the most important companies in Austria cannot be publicly discredited in the interest of the Republic. [[Abg. May. Molterer: He's right!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's look at the AUA: Yes, this one has de facto crashed. I only remember – 1 001 night! – to the story then with the sheer sheikh or the fatal mistakes made in the management of forward-looking transactions regarding the fuel. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes, there was Faymann Transport Minister!]] Well, and the result was then a finished captain of the AUA, who tolerated. But the main responsibility, such as Mr Michaelis at the ÖIAG, is still the referee of a truly princely salary: more than €700 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] Considering that he was actually the shareholders of the AUA and also the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. In reality, ÖIAG has lost its sense because there are only post, Telekom and OMV as listed companies. So what are the ÖIAGs for? [[Abg. May. Hakl: Because Faymann has not been able to do it as Minister of Transport! We won't let him do that now!]] The ÖIAG has lost its sense. That's what Johannes Ditz says, Mrs. Colleague! Johannes Ditz, who has been high on the course lately, has been re-installed by you in economic policy, financial policy matters, says the following – already in the summer of last year –: After the AUA sale, says Ditz, only three interests remain, for which one does not need the ÖIAG effort. That doesn't make any sense! And to the question of a journalist: You're pleading for the abolition?, Ditz says: Yes, but only after the sale of the AUA, where ÖIAG did not act happily anyway! So it's all history. The AUA's been done for a long time. I would really appeal in the sense of Johannes Ditz once again to remove this unnecessary and expensive double structure. We will then find a few positions less in the next report presented by the President. By the way, I really want to support Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors' appeals and suggestions, as far as transparency is concerned, as far as individual representation is concerned. This is very important, because then the Members' questions can be answered properly at all. Finally, it is also about a right of the population to know exactly the structures of enterprises belonging to taxpayers and the population. This is also a certain protection for investors, that is to say, in the public interest. More transparency, that is the command of the hour!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14189	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14210	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. The very detailed Court of Auditors report brings some gagenschmankerl to light. In the close-to-state companies top salaries are apparently paid, Gagen-Kaisers were AUA, ÖBB and Verbund. In 2007, 50 board members and managers had an annual income above that of the Federal Chancellor, and 49 were still in 2008, 16 of which – a third – were to be found at the financial maritime ÖBB. The Court's report also shows very clearly that women's share in the head days of state-owned businesses has on average increased only marginally: in the Boards from 11.2 percent to 11.6 percent and in the Supervisory Boards from 13.9 percent to 16.1 percent. That was also mentioned by my previous speakers. The highest proportion of women were recorded in the tourism sector. There were 50 percent; however, there are two people here, and one was a woman. At universities, the proportion of women is 27.8 percent, which is 22 management posts for women and 57 for men. There is the fact that women's promotion, which has been legislated for years, has been shown to be effective. And that is – I think – also a good example for other companies. However, a total of 397 companies have also managed to show gender-specifically differentiated data and facts, including the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board as a whole, not the ÖBB. Five ÖBB companies did not provide gender specific data for the Court of Auditors report. According to the Court of Auditors, the companies reported that the gender separation of income from members of the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board or the Executive Board was not possible. However, in the “VCÖ magazine” of January 2009, the article “Mobility and Women” states that of the 25 management posts and managing directors of the ÖBB Group 23 of men and only two of women, of which 83 supervisory councils were at the time 75 men and only eight women – source information: B.C.E.B. Thus, it was possible for the said period to provide information, but apparently these data on the proportion of women in the management of the ÖBB were not wanted. This is also evidenced by the fact that in the entire ÖBB group of 43 000 employees, only 6.9 percent are women. If we look at these facts, we cannot speak of success for women. It is certainly overpowered to say that important and correct steps have been taken here in the future. Small steps have been taken, and many, many steps still need to be taken to increase the proportion of women accordingly. It was also criticised by the Court of Auditors that not all given Gagens were presented sufficiently transparently, since some companies had only aggregated average amounts of all Group Executive Boards. More transparency would also be urgently needed in terms of gender-specific incomes!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14274	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14295	Mr President. Once again, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for bringing a system into broad political debate in a very detailed and open manner, which we should not engage in a debate about indifference, but should actually grow in the interest of the citizens of us a bit of anger in the belly, which was actually devoted to the indifference of free space. What is so disappointing for me – even though it might be me- because that's the behavior of you, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! –: Half or two thirds of the people are not there and discuss it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And then the SPÖ's Federal Managing Director comes to the speaker's desk here and tells in a maximized passionlessness a little of party-political small money change in the direction of black. You know, your founding fathers have fought for distribution justice! And your founding fathers have fought for those who have too much and indecent too much that is taken away and redistributed in the direction of the small people, the workers and employees. It's all meated for you today! I take note of that too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] But I also say to you: When you come and try to play a bit of theoretical class struggle over wealth tax, no one will lose you any more! And that's why you're down in the election favor in the free case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's all right when you get to the blacks and what they deserve. Take a look at your own rows! Look For example, Mr Ruttenstorfer! My knowledge is that the Republic is quite involved in the OMV. Former State Secretary of the SPÖ, he even acted as a Federal Party observer, shortly before he was contacted by Mr Faymann. He was then charged with insider trading. Let us open what Mr Ruttenstorfer deserves! I believe that wherever tax money is inside, there is transparency and comprehensibleness, and above all justice to taxpayers. It can't be that a manager of the ÖVP receives €800 000 a year, by the way, millions more speculated and lets his wife do business! The €800 000 is the “nacker” – apologise for this shirt-sleeved term – as the spouts come along, as the service car comes along, plus, plus, plus! This is a system of indifference, which is somehow adjusted. And then I expect the passion of every people's representative to say: Yes, we are ready to make taxpayers there where they are used, fair, transparent and comprehensible! – But that doesn’t happen! Look what the Federal President deserves: about €23,000 a month, my memory. If you convert this into real money, when the money was still worth something, in Schilling, that's far beyond the 300,000 schilling. That's 4 million schilling a year. I say that is all right, the top representative of the Republic of Austria should also be well deserved, because it involves a lot of responsibility and a lot of work. Only: When I look at that, for example, in the banking sector – and there is tax money inside, there are 15 billion euros in tax money inside! – the top banking boss deserves the 20 and 25 times, so I dare say: There is no one in Austria who is worth this money! There is no one in Austria who, like Mr. Treichl, earns over €7 million a year as the best-earning manager of the Republic at the best time. That's such a fantasy sum you have to say: From the time the taxpayer is inside – and the taxpayer is inside the First Group Bank with over €2 billion – politics also has the responsibility to include these top salaries in a federal reference pyramid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But all of this doesn't seem to interest you! And this is the accusation that I address to you as a Social Democratic Party. We can be pleased because today we postulate for ourselves to bring about social responsibility and distribution justice in Austria, with success and with the back cover of the voters. I'll tell you: It will continue so that people turn to us liberals, because the politics we are pursuing in the population is recognized as being honest It's going to be. And what you're doing is, in a passionlessness, as it can't be annoyed, distribution justice, social justice, when you go to Parliament's wardrobe, to give up somewhere and not to be interested in it any more. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Your wage will be that you, just as many other social democratic parties in Europe, will soon sink into insignificance. Let's see.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14391	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14413	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Unfortunately, I have to give Mr Vilimsky the right thing. This lack of passion, with which you discuss this Court of Auditors report, and the fact that, without drawing with the eyelashes – not particularly with my colleagues Herbs – you take note that there are some incompetent top managers in this area at the expense of the Republic for years, and then at the end of being approved by God – sometimes you have to carry them out at the door, because they stick to the money –, with a self-evident handling and even though they have proved to be unable, that is not to endure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Vilimsky, we are not only discussing certain establishments, but, if so, all close-to-state establishments, if so, not only over the year 2008, although the Court of Auditors' report gives us the main reason for this, but of course also about previous years and inability or conditions in certain close-to-state establishments such as Seibersdorf, where the President, who is now sitting above, has also stood up and said: I agree that I will cash my discharge!, and this, although he was co-responsible for the fact that this company, namely Seibersdorf, was led to the rest and almost to the ruin through the entire Burschenförderpartie. [[Abg. Vilimsky: There has been no way! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] That is what it looks like to make a comprehensive report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is what has already come to my mind at the beginning when Mr Lapp spoke: this lack of passion or the attempt to defend where I think there is nothing to defend. It's true, you're right, in the private sector, the demand between the incomes of normal mortals and that of top managers is greater. Only: The two-, three-, four-, five- or six-fold is also not in the field of close-to-state operations. I tell you, the post management, the managing directors, the executives of the post get €500 000, because they have managed to negotiate a collective contract that will feed the post offices with €1 300 gross. I emphasize: 1 300 € gross! This is less than the postmen have received in the past decades, although the work for the new and young postmen has become more. 1 300 € gross receives a letter carrier, which is 1 000 € net. 1 300 € gross, that does not make up more than 15 000 € per year, I'm sorry, or it's 16,000 or 17,000 if you count it fourteen. And now you count on how many times the board of Post AG receives! I could tell you other examples, such as the one of GesmbH's not yet addressed managing director of the ÖBB service. This is a unity on the third level. He gets as much as the Chairman of the Board of Management of the ÖBB. Yes, why does he get his 450 000 €? Because in recent years he has managed to send 20 000 ÖBB staff to the early retirement pension and, at the same time, has added 13 000 in five years. After great success, congratulate the managing director and all those who have watched! In recent years, politicians, including those of the FPÖ, including those of the ÖVP and including those of the SPÖ, have also seen 20 000, more than 20 000, probably up to 30 000 ÖBB staff have been sent to early retirement since 2000. This is more than half of all ÖBB staff. There is almost no one left who can still be sent to the early retirement pension, except you start the game again from the front, only with the difference that the newly recorded first have the worse income and also the much worse, namely the normal pension scheme according to the ASVG. [[Abg. Dolinschek: The Haberzettl!]] With knowledge of the policy at the expense of taxpayers, ÖBB has tried to reorganise the company through these early retirements, making it stock-traveling. Because nothing else is about it: If we put the officials out, let's see that we're going to get rid of them, because only then can the company be displayed ready for stock! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this relationship could be discussed much longer.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14477	Mr Vilimsky spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would remind you of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure and give it the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14502	Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Man Oellinger has said that President Graf would have taken full advantage of his execution. – That’s wrong! Dr. Graf left behind half of the time after he was politically expelled from his employment relationship in an illegal act. [[Abg. Oillinger: What does the Court of Auditors say about this?]] Small Postscript: Mrs Moser will then explain to us how Mr Pius Strobl looks in terms of content from the Greens in the ORF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14539	I would like to point out at this point that this was not an actual correction. The next item is Mr Grosz. 4 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14567	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Mr President, Mr Moser, we thank you for this report, since you are quite impressively describing the current situation of those close-to-state businesses that are doing their business at the expense of our tax money, those close-to-state businesses, which are manifesting themselves as post offices and as a post-shake paradise also for us in Parliament, where management salaries, for example at the AUA, are possible at the ASFINAG, which are far away from good and evil. I do not want to interfere in the small-party war between the FPÖ and the Greens, between Mr Floss and Mr Strobl at the ORF and concerning the Graf case of supply and its management content in any form. Wear these butter on the head They all continue to be beautiful for themselves, we don't discuss them either, they explain to your voters, but please don't like ours! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a red thread is already being drawn through this Court of Auditors report. Yesterday we were allowed to approve or see public-law broadcasting, as reported in the “time in the picture” that AUA is decommissioning employees, technicians and, and, one of the biggest savings programs in its history. On the other hand, in your report, we read how the management salaries in this area are going to be, like the lonely summit victory in the downing of this country. That's what I'm saying: In this area, not only does a lot come out of the joints, no, that is de facto a naughtiness and an insult to all taxpayers, but above all to the employees in this company, such as the AUA, day after day ensure that this company continues to exist despite any turbulence, while the board of directors, popularly said how the Mades in the bacon suck in their management salaries. Or: ASFINAG area. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's what you put in yourself! The Gorbach!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, do not overstep yourself! – Especially here in this pult, we discussed the toll scandal at the ASFINAG, where employees of the ASFINAG have been mobbed or have been imposed on forced contracts because they have a day-to-day penalty, almost commission payments have been collected on sovereign charges. That is what we have discussed, and a Minister for Transport has stood here and said: No, I don't think so. I don't know anything about that. Everyone has unwittingly shown how the basic employees of ASFINAG are actually doing. And on the other hand, there are the high management salaries, such as Mr Riepler and as they are called, all who are balling around in the ASFINAG, so to speak, and at the expense of the toll payers, at the expense of taxpayers, celebrating joyful origins. Not to mention the privileges in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the Jörg Haider – God has blessed him! – For 20 years, the National Bank has tried to defiltrate, so that, as an epitome of the Austrian privilege summit, the reserves for retirement pensions are finally decomposed and the salaries there are adapted to the real conditions in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! What you've been doing since 2006 is not, at last, the failure of the nineties to eliminate the social partnership failures, finally drying out this swamp, no, you perfect it even more in recent years. This is “Wonderful”, ladies and gentlemen: The originals we have believed in 1999, with the end of the great coalition, to have abolished in this country, now you are perfecting that They are, so to speak, to Olympic discipline, as we now know. This report, which deals with these managing directors and salaries between 2005 and 2008, confirms yes, to what extent You take these holdings hostage at the expense of taxpayers. And you from the SPÖ are in no way like the ÖVP in any way, there you are equal – with politics in the great coalition coming out of the joints as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14619	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14641	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal with gender issues, as did my previous speakers, Mrs Schwentner, Mr Heller and Mr Lap, and to address them because I see a very urgent need for action here. I also regret, as has already been said, that, unlike more than 390 undertakings, the companies of the ÖBB have not been able to transmit gender-specifically differentiated data to the Court of Auditors. I think these conditions are consequences of the era of former Director-General Huber and are eliminated. For supervisory councils – that has already been said – the proportion of women on average is 16.1 percent. The universities have contributed 42 percent of them to the increase of the average. From the point of view of gender issues, the gender composition is much more disastrous in the board or in the management. We averaged 11.6 percent in 2008. Now you have to know that universities have far too little 27 percent, but in the field of electricity and heat, of 80 boards were 78 male and 2 female, that is 2.5 percent. A pattern of income is also the business of the E-Economie: Of the four boards are three men and only one woman, and the women's income is 40 percent lower than that of the men. Similarly, the fate of the other women in the companies is: These also earn 40 percent less on average. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for having been shown this area, because I think it is very important that awareness should be given here and that this dramatic underrepresentation of women must be changed as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14681	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14702	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I believe that the previous speakers, no matter what the group, have already put on the table all the data of this report on the public economy. What are the Court of Auditors' reports – and the same happens in the private sector – for: One gets an external one and lets the operation shine through to see where weaknesses are, which one then eliminates so that the operation becomes stronger. This is very good in the public sector of the Court of Auditors, according to my feelings. Thank you, Mr President, and your entire team for that. The Court of Auditors also clearly shows the shortcomings. But if some of these abuses are used by individual political groups, I must say: We will only get under control if we jointly try to eliminate inequalities in the private sector, in the public sector, but also in civil service. No political group here in this House is excluded. If Mr Grosz, who was out here in front of me, once again said how it should work, then I can only say: Look where you've been responsible for ten years, the BZÖ in Carinthia, now the FPK, doesn't matter, for a few months! [[Abg. Grosz: FPK! FPK! Last row!]] There is the board of directors in the electricity industry, which has the highest salary in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: FPK!]] Okay, that's the quickest thing to do. Secondly, if you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you have to say that the federal government is taking your recommendations, how you can make them better, very seriously. 50 percent of these 662 recommendations have already been implemented, 31 percent are in work, 18 percent have not yet been implemented. Now I want to go back to where BZÖ or FPÖ has the say and for ten years actually has everything in hand, and say: [[Abg. Dr. Moser: This is the wrong speech about the wrong item on the agenda! That is what you have to say at the next item on the agenda, not this one!]] The number of implementations of the Court of Auditors' recommendations in Carinthia is not even half of the Federal Government's figure concerned. This should not be an accusation now, but if this political side is spoken of in this way, I would like to say: In order to be able to explain to the public that everything is half-balanced, we must implement the Court of Auditors' recommendations, and we can only implement them, as said, if everyone stands together and we see together that we are getting these things under control. Because one thing is quite clear: No one can explain why the national bank staff can retire at 35 years of service, probably with an even higher pension than the last one. [[Abg. Grosz: Because it's your party friends!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's black!]] There is no one to explain – that has already been started – why you can retire at the ÖBB so early. It is no one to explain why those managers of those companies that have had the biggest financial problems in recent years, such as ORF, ÖBB or AUA, deserve the most. Let us take a little step aside from party politics, let us see that together we are creating a proper solution so that we can resolve these inconsistencies, because only then are we credible! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14795	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Haider. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14817	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen Mulder, Lapp, Obernosterer, Herbs! Your crocodile tears on this topic really don't take any more people from here! You have it... – Nothing against crocodiles! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Nothing against crocodiles!]] Sorry, Gerald Grosz, we don't want to insult the crocodiles! – You have it in your hand and do not need to regret that the board of directors in the AUA have earned €681,000 for years! Actually, the €500 million that AUA has cost us in recent years, which the taxpayer had to pay, should also be included. Or: the electricity companies, a very special thing. It's been addressed a few times today: On average, € 840 000 was earned at Elektromswirtschafts AG. The President of the Court of Auditors made this very clear at the Committee meeting and also complained: There is no transparency at all here, because these are information provided voluntarily by the companies. Ex-Chairman Pistauer at the Association earned exactly € 1.428 million in 2008. The amount is made up of 592 000 fixed cover, and € 836 000 depend on success. It is obvious that if you screw up the electricity price and ask the citizen to check it out, you will also receive €836 000, depending on success, as the board of directors. There is a real suspicion that all these figures, which are contained in this excellent Court of Auditors report, represent only the basic charges and that there are very many payments that are not transparent, because the companies have not at all given them. The President also said it himself: This report is based on information from the companies themselves, it has not been checked for material accuracy. This could not be examined by the Court of Auditors at all. And here there is a very clear demand, including from the Court of Auditors, to the two government parties: Finally, let us put in place a system that ensures that the Court of Auditors can really examine materially here too! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these crocodile tears don't take you away, as I said. We must try to ensure that salaries are disclosed in close-to-state companies, that the OECD principles on corporate governance are finally implemented and taken seriously and also lived by the managers in the area of state-related governance. This is a clear call for this Court of Auditors report. Now you are called upon to implement it, ladies and gentlemen, by the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14868	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14890	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This red Court of Auditors report would actually have to bring more to the face of all the members of SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ than the red one, because these figures published by the Court of Auditors, which are now being discussed, are all due to your actions, to your decisions in the Supervisory Boards or in the Board of Directors of these close-to-State companies or to those companies of the federal government. It was your decisions, it was your political responsibility, and it's still it. My problem is that nothing has changed. We now have the figures, but the various contracts continue to run, settlements will continue when people have proved their economic inadequacy to be generously paid. I'm just referring to the example of ÖBB chief Huber. Here you can read it. There are clear notes, also about the payment of payments – also the page I can quote directly to you – on page 62. It is simply accepted – in addition to the fact that discharges are still paid for the mismanagement. Or, if we only have two pages on page 60 – Mr Oellinger has already mentioned it – the immense content of Nigel. Nigel was the right arm of Huber at the ÖBB, pushed massively into the early retirement, took up new people, made conversions, was, so to speak, the broom who returned to and from the ÖBB in personal politics everywhere. This gentleman, of course, has gotten his work more than gilded, but otherwise there are no consequences, he is still employed in other functions. Let's stay with the ÖBB. A promise made by Mrs Bures is: It will reduce the number of managers. But what do we have? – Let’s go along with the comparison historically: In earlier times, there were 25 executives at the ÖBB. The black-blue government, I emphasize once again, the black-blue, later black-orange government has raised the posts to 115. Please, count on yourself! This is almost a fivefold, a fivefold increase of the leading men's positions at the ÖBB. Economically, the company did not get any better, in no way better. No, but what do we have? – Increased number of managers with relatively generous salaries, possibly future settlement if their inability turns out to be, and overall a tax payer's loss. That's not how it goes, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I strongly advocate that we finally take the Court of Auditors' recommendations seriously to make OECD regulations legally binding in Austria. It is about corporate governance rules, which are binding, with the public hand also being exemplaryly committed and showing that transparency must be given as much as in stock exchange-oriented companies, that we should act even more exemplaryly. It is about the need for supervisory councils to have more impact, that supervisory board boards can also be held politically responsible and that we can ultimately also call for political responsibility for wrong decisions, for mismanagement – I only mention the AUA with grasses, with bowls, which have led our airline into the abyss – that this can also be clarified by investigation committees. The numbers alone are too few. We need massive political consequences, and if you refuse them – and we will make a request for the introduction of the OECD Transparency Directives also for Austria – then I really see them black, and then you can take responsibility to the electorate once again at the next National Council election. Mr Prehauser, you will now have the opportunity to replicate my remarks. Give a good example! Put the latte up a little bit! Look at how transparency can be driven forward, go ahead with a good example, at the OMV et cetera it is possible. It is only, I am afraid, that this pro-proporcedural convoluted character, which exists in Austria – another word is no longer in my mind in this context – has unfortunately received new advances through the new constellation and is not past, as the Court of Auditors report here explains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14975	Next speaker: Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e14996	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Circumstances, such as a discussion of this kind, are highlighted by the attention of the Court of Auditors' reports, which are always interesting to read. But if politicians stand out here, throw issues on the table that they have forgotten to be responsible for themselves, then of course it is a little difficult to find a consensus to eliminate abuses. I'm just calling three names: Huber, Ötsch and Reichhold. These are all managers ordered by the FPÖ, and now that it's in the opposition, she doesn't want to do this anymore. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Which Huber? You don't even know each other!]] Mr Westenthaler, listen to me later on. I say to you: In the area of responsibility of blue politicians, these were in the infrastructure ministry, of course, Mr Huber was. Draxler, a successful railway manager, had to leave, and then those like Huber came. That's where you have the responsibility, and you can't steal from it either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to show maladies when you know who caused them and know them too. They caused it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] They know this very well and try to distract from it by means of loud discussion and want to push it into the shoes of others. We won't let that happen! Mr. Westenthaler, your party was the climber of this policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where does the Huber belong?]] Don't forget that! You, too, have no right to discuss this in the form. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have no idea at all!]] Spread ashes to your head, and think a little better in the future in the interest of Austria! We'll help you with this. We will support you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't even know which party people belong to!]] They are not able to drive managers that meet the requirements of Austria. They failed in every way. May Austria be protected from ever having the opportunity to participate in government responsibility for the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15097	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15118	Mr President. High house! Aim of this in accordance with Art. In Article 121(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: 4 report on the average income and the additional benefits for pensions in the federal government's public economy, and it is to provide a regular and comprehensive institutional overview of the income situation in public enterprises, which is average income and is not the name of the disclosure of remuneration. I am pleased if I can see your contributions to the debate that this objective, which the Court of Auditors has linked to this report, has been welcomed and your approval has been received. In the same way, I am pleased that the further development that this report has taken has also found your positive response in terms of separate representation of male and female income trends in 2007 and 2008 or the development of the relation between incomes. The average income is mentioned very briefly. It can be seen here that the management received an average of € 152 800 in 2008. The highest income of management in 2008 was €858 600 for AUA and €840 000 for the group; the average income of management in women was €104500, and for men at €156 400. Women's share in management: 11.6 percent. The average income for the Supervisory Board members was €5 700. On average, the highest Supervisory Board income in 2008 was €29 500. The proportion of women in this area was 16.1 percent in the Supervisory Board. A brief mention is made of the relationship between the average income of management and the average income of employees in such an income situation: Here is the relation so that it amounted to 3.5 times in 2008. For example, it was higher at the ÖBB Group with 47 companies. Here the relation of the highest average income of the board to the average income of employees was the 4.9-fold, in film and news, the 5.7-fold, in art, all year round, the 4.5-fold. If one involves precisely those undertakings covered by the Federal Railway Structure Act, the relationship between the average income of the management of these companies and the employees is the 8.62-fold in 2008. Pensions amounted to € 561 million in 2008 for 26 746 people, an increase of 15 percent compared to 2005. The precautionary requirement amounted to €2,6 billion in 2005 for public-sector pensions, €3.4 billion in 2008, of which €2.1 billion alone are money and credit. This report – and this has been discussed several times in the debate – contains a number of difficulties for individual companies, such as the high average income of employees; for example, in the energy sector, €78 300, or in the ÖBB business sector, a company with €124 500. There was a high increase in the income of management in the energy sector from €557 000 in 2005 to €840 000 in 2008, or in the transport sector in a company from €120 000 in 2005 to €188,000 in 2008. You will also find high salaries of board members despite fewer employees; for example, in the real estate sector, €224,000 Average income of management at three employees or in the research area €152,000 for nine employees, in the agricultural sector €173 300 for 32 employees. That is to say, summing up on this income report, it should be noted that transparency has not been given to public enterprises and the OECD principles of corporate governance have not been implemented in 2004 or the Austrian Corporate Governance Code 2006 has not been applied. I would like to quote briefly these principles so that you can know what is contained in the OECD principle or what the Austrian Corporate Governance Code contains. I quote from section V of OECD Corporate Governance Principles: ‘The disclosure of personal data (...) is increasingly considered to be recommended practice and is required by law in several countries.’ "The disclosure also helps to improve the public's understanding of the structures and activities of businesses...." Or, on the other hand: Experience shows that disclosure can also be a powerful instrument for protecting investors. Not least, it says: Laxe disclosure rules can encourage unethical behavior. - Quote. In this direction, the Austrian Corporate Governance Code 2006 also goes by setting out rules, such as: ‘The total remuneration of the Executive Board granted in the financial year shall be shown in the Annex to the annual accounts.’ Or Rule 30: ‘In addition to the information already required by the law (L-rule 29), the following information shall be included in the annual report: The principles applied in the company to the success of the Executive Board, in particular to the criteria for a successful participation; (...) The ratio of the fixed to the success-dependent components of the total remuneration of the Executive Board. The principles of occupational pensions granted to the Executive Board by the company and their conditions.’ Not least also Rule 31: “For each member of the Executive Board, fixed and success-based remunerations are published separately in the Annual Report.” The conclusions from these principles are probably that according to Good Governance, the OECD principles of Corporate Governance 2004 and the provisions of the Austrian Corporate Governance Code 2006 are fully applied to public undertakings. In conclusion, for eight million shareholders, there should probably be the same right to transparency as for the shareholders of companies listed on the stock exchange. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15225	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-100 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[14:25:33]] 4. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2009/14 (III-101/606 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15272	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Gaßner. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15304	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Today we have a small community day here in plenary, it was already about the financial compensation and about the beverage tax refund. This report by the Court of Auditors also contains an interesting chapter on municipal examinations, and I must say a sentence, Mr President, to that effect. You write: “At the financial compensation of 2008 – 2013, the municipalities were taken more into account and received additional net income.” – I can’t sign that. In fact, it would also be necessary to compare compulsory expenditure with that, and then there is nothing more with net revenue. Then nothing will be left. This morning it was discussed that the financial compensation was unfair because the citizens of small communities were less valuable than the citizens of large communities. We have this debate again and again when a financial compensation is under control. I remember very well – Mr Auer will confirm it – that we are always saying after the financial compensation has been completed: Now we must finally get away from this population key and from this injustice, and we must go to a task-oriented financial balance. – Nothing has happened to this day, until today nothing has happened. If I look at the Court of Auditors' proposals for a municipal audit on the basis of a common audit concept of the Federal Court of Auditors and the national accounting authorities – with all the advantages you can read here in the report – I could imagine that this would make sense – also as a starting point for a so-called task-oriented financial compensation – that we should consider whether the communities should do so, and if so, where they take the money and who gives them the money. I think that would be a right approach. A second comment on this report: It is about the Austrian Federal Forest, real estate and property management as well as participation management. Two points, according to your report, Mr President, are still open, and I do not understand why the point of Lake Survey is not done, because there could be a profit if ordinary lease contracts could be made on the basis of proper survey data. A question that will be asked the Federal Forests. The following point is also open: Federal Ministry of Finance and Agriculture: ‘Regular control of property transactions reports as regards their compliance with the transactions recorded in the Property Account’. That means, Mr President, that what is contained in the reports is not identical to what is recorded. Here too, I believe, there is a need for explanation. One last sentence: ==References====External links== February in connection with the budget renovation and all that is meant here is that the WIFO sees, among other things, a potential for the sale of the Federal Forest. I think that this approach is to be forgotten, because the Federal Forests are not only very important in value, but they have quite different tasks to sustainability in Austria. That is why we should drop this idea of divesting Federal Forests.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15361	Next speaker: Mr Gahr. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15383	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. We are discussing today the Annual Report 2009, in which 13 sub-reports with 106 contributions are reproduced. In my view, of course, the first report on the demand procedures presented for the year 2008 is very interesting. The Court of Auditors has a very large area of responsibility: the examination of the federal government, the countries, the municipalities in which there are cross-sectional audits, and the municipal associations. He also examines the professional representations, chambers and their accounts. Four audits of the European Court of Auditors were accompanied last year, and I think it is quite positive that the Court of Auditors is actively involved in the new administrative reform. The Court of Auditors is actively involved in opinions on draft laws, and I believe that in the future too, we need the political basis of the Court of Auditors in law. The highlights in 2009 – which have already been reflected in this debate today – are certainly the ORF, the ASFINAG traffic telematics, the ÖBB, the AWS, the housing renovation of the countries, the ARC, the Austro Control and also the Medical University of Innsbruck, about which there is a critical report. From these highlights in short form perhaps a look back: Especially in the case of the ÖBB – we are still discussing this report – the Court of Auditors has clearly shown that the corporate structure is inflated and there are still early retirements. I am quite optimistic that Mrs Bures will take action to raise the retirement age. I believe that this is simply fair to all the others in this country, that one also keeps people in work for a longer time at the ÖBB. The next item is the ORF. There is, of course, a clear need for structural and content reform from the Court of Auditors. There's a new ORF law now. It is important that the ORF receives a comprehensive overall strategy in the future and that the organisational structures are brought to the forerman. This Court of Auditors report has caused the ORF to reduce the number of executives by 25 percent and staff by 12 percent and to reduce the number of main departments from eight to four. An open point in the demand process is the acquisition of Eurofighter. In the Committee, the President has confirmed that the cost reduction of €120 million has not yet met the Court of Auditors' recommendations as regards purchase price and remuneration reduction and support contracts with the service. The Transport Telematics Report was also very critical. There was no in-depth cost-benefit test here. The costs were too high and the assumptions were far too optimistic. On the basis of the Court of Auditors' report – thank you once again, Mr President – transport telematics have been integrated into the ASFINAG, the project is now running at a lower level, but it is quite successful, as I believe, and it is also developing positive in terms of road safety. As a result of the Court of Auditors' report, the rules of the game have fortunately changed. One area in which the Court of Auditors has examined cross-sectionalities is the climate-related measures of the countries. It is here that the Court of Auditors has shown that there is a need for harmonisation in order to achieve our climate objectives. The objectives of the Unfortunately, climate strategy 2002 to 2007 was not achieved because there was no consensus with the countries. Overall, the balance sheet shows: Of 662 recommendations, 332 – 50.2 percent – were implemented. At 31.4 percent, implementation is promised, and 18.4 percent are open. It is positive that the match rate is rising. The Court of Auditors also pointed out that the municipalities with 54.9% actually implement the most efficient standards, i.e. they are in charge of the federal and the country, and that, Mr Obernosterer has already said, there are differences in their implementation between the countries. There are currently a number of challenges: the examination of the Skylink project, in which the Court of Auditors, following a resolution of 23 December 1993, is currently under way. September 2009 can now become active; the introduction into the administrative reform, where we need to take steps as quickly as possible to implement consolidation measures; the topic of municipal audits – the Federal Court of Auditors can currently review only 24 larger cities – is also a new test concept for the municipalities in preparation. You just have to take into account that 7.7 billion euros are out of debt, and I think it is important that there is insight here too. In conclusion: Thank you very much for presenting this report, which provides valuable and practical comparisons. He provides us with new challenges for social and economic developments, and he contributes to the fact that policy is based on and can act and respond to things that can be made better and optimised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15459	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15480	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! This annual activity report, I believe, is a very, very good summary of the Court's comprehensive activities. He also very clearly points out that, as important as a control body is, it is always necessary to continue working, to look closely at the impact of the control reports, to filter out what is to be implemented, but also to develop the control instruments themselves. I am here at a point that has already been raised: the examinations of the communities. The financial compensation – which has already been discussed today – regulates the liquidation of public funds to countries and communities, and in reality both institutions cover expenditure of public interest – but often completely different, because while debt is settled in a federal state, for example, and the municipalities are more debt-free, it is reversed in another federal country. This results in an incoherence that we need to unite at some point. I believe it is very important for us that the resulting gray areas are made easier to track the flow of payments and that, above all, we recognize the impact we have with the money we make available to the public in the municipalities and in the countries. Is the tax euro that we give to the countries and communities worth it? Is this the result of the corresponding effect within the meaning of our citizens and our people? This is why, I believe, it is so necessary for the Court of Auditors to be given the competence of the Court of Auditors over all communities – not because it has two or three auditors in one 500-soul communities want to send, but because they have to make these currents comprehensible in order to make them clear to us what comes out when we send money to the countries and communities. In Styria, a study on the financial situation of the municipalities was prepared by the Chamber of Commerce, which shows a clear picture: 82 percent of the municipalities are indebted. What measures will the municipalities take? – On the one hand, investment stop and, on the other, cost increases. These are points in which I wonder whether it is necessary to increase fees, or whether it could be made more efficient by other measures without burdening citizens. It is of particular interest to note that the Chamber of Commerce notes that controlling and identification systems are foreign words. More than half of the municipalities have no control instruments in their financial departments, and 10 percent do not know – this is also very interesting. The Economic and Social Committee notes that it supports the Court's efforts to extend competence towards municipal audits. This is particularly close to the EIA, which is always so vehemently opposed to the Court of Auditors' control rights in the municipalities. One point on the Court of Auditors' recommendations: It is very, very nice, I think that 80 percent of the recommendations will be implemented. However, those 20 percent who are still open are actually the ones who go into action. I think there should be no bulwark here, because these are of great importance, especially in the area of administrative reform. Persecution and implementation should be a goal; only in this way control makes sense and ensures efficiency. I believe that an aid to this would be a report from the Federal Government on the unimplemented recommendations. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It can be easy that very important recommendations disappear in the drawer. But they can't. On the basis of a report, we could work them up at least once a year, see why nothing has gone on. You can also find other approaches to this, which is not the fundamental problem. As the government often deals with recommendations from the Court of Rechning, I would like to demonstrate on the basis of a request I have made to the Federal Chancellery. I have allowed myself to ask about the recent report on the ORF as it stands with the implementation of the recommendations. The Lapidar answer here was that it was a private association, so to speak, that the Federal Chancellery was not responsible. This is actually an increase in the Members' work. I note that it is only logical that, if the Court of Auditors' body can examine – which is also based on a recommendation from the National Council – that is to say a subordinate body of the National Council, it should examine and establish results that these results must also be subject to the law of the Members of Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not think anything else is comprehensible. In that respect, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, thank you for the report. I hope you all will agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15575	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15627	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15648	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! On this report and the classification – soon the usual praise, but Still meant honestly –: The structure of the report has been changed compared to previous years. We now have, essentially, an extensive follow-up programme with the activity report, which the Court of Auditors itself gives itself to look at, but at least also to get an overview of what is important for Members. This is essentially linked to reporting. The fact that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are of course doing much more than just a short report here, is clear anyway, but the service is of course also in the art of summarying. One can see the structural change very well. There are more reports under age, which may be even more time-consuming – but this remains an open flank that does not cause you, but rather other circumstances – and of course more focus on the matter: more concentration on the part of the honourable Member and – I add – on the other hand also to the public, because, of course, the public is also an important factor in dealing with the control system. This results in a parliamentary democracy where, as I believe, the media world is rightly considered the fourth pillar. - So far, so good. On the subject of transparency, we will come to the disclosure of party donations on the occasion of reflections on the reform of party funding, which was also mentioned briefly in the report, but perhaps even more precisely on the question of the control of the communities. We have been following the subject very intensively here in the house for many, many years, but for months in particular, because now we really are going a little further. You see, you should never give up. There are negotiations that are currently outside Parliament, but they will, if everything goes well, of course reach the House again, because it would be a constitutional change, if we were to do so – which is at least the wish of the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors, even if we all took into account, individual Members, whole groups – that we should make the control of the community more efficient – I add. This is something the EIA can quite agree with, because the EIA has always pointed out that it makes no sense to have many different control devices. Rightly, I say, because it doesn't really work – except for the Federal Court of Auditors, and it can't. That's the situation. We don't have to think about it. In some municipalities, the Control Committee does little to help, because the municipal councils working there volunteerly or against a small fee usually cannot keep up, but they must not be blamed for that. In particular, members of the opposition often come from a different committed area than from the economic sector and of course they are difficult to do so. I would keep this regulation in the community, perhaps different depending on the federal state – the mayors and former mayors among us, and we have already come up with it that it is very reasonable to always listen to their calls before the whole thing is misunderstandingally understood as a parish bashing, because that is the last thing we need at the moment; I see that too – but you know even because of your insights that this check-and-balancing principle in the communities often does not work. As a rule, there are committed mayors and committed councillors, which is why not much goes wrong and there is not so much to control for the councils. But that's not always the case – and that's exactly what we're going to get to those trouble cases that unfortunately happen more strongly. Interestingly, there are certain federal states in which this is increasing. There is also an east-west gap – why, and I only note that, unfortunately, the Styria, at least also Lower Austria and phase by phase, draw attention to the Burgenland with the accumulations of certain cases of problem. Why this is so, you could look at it again. I note, on this occasion, that the municipal control also works badly where the district chief teams – depending on the country situation – are involved. I can give you dozens of examples of what has already happened, that the local authorities in the countries, which are, so to speak, always occupied by the Party, in terms of construction, must almost say, often not work either. In Styria as in some other federal states, one has now reached at least that far – in the sense of the system of Checks and Balances – that Red Black controls and vice versa. - We'll see if that really helps. Really would help – and this is the final point – a clear allocation of competence to the billing courts. I would like to say that I have often said that a general control competence is enshrined in the Federal Court of Auditors – there is no concept, but in order to be able to distinguish it better – for the Federal Court of Auditors. Then it will be in the wisdom of the Court of Recuperation, according to which economic, but also other indicators of conspicuousness towards the mismanagement are selected communities are examined. That's a sensible system. The Court of Auditors has often proved enough that it chooses reasonable – and has to deal with its resources reasonably in order to be able to handle all these audit tasks at all. What role the national accounting authorities still play is a point of their own. From me, they can also get all the skills. It will then, just as usual, be located in the clarification of the test plans, that there will not be overlaps that do not make sense. We should do all of this. – If there is a compromise in the middle, as is often the case in politics, it will also be better than not to reach a compromise at all. I'm just telling you, there's really nothing against the fact that the billing courts get this auditing expertise. Last point, because this evening we meet at the party level once – hopefully – a change to the party law: In Austria, there is also the question of party funding, not only of the public, which is extremely high, but also of private party donations. It is precisely because public funding is so high that it should be thought that regulation and transparency in private party donations – essentially about large donations – are also well organised accordingly. Don't do that! Austria is final in Europe with regard to transparency. According to an APA report to the day, most of the EU has an obligation to disclose, not so in Austria. We're final. We are behind Albania when it comes to such things, and that can no longer be taken! It is quite clear what the agenda has to look like: We need to separate the party law and first of all define exactly who will be concerned with all and all – that is, all pre-disposition organisations and also all types of donations. But even more important, it is to sharpen individual provisions in order to achieve a donation ban. In Germany, in the event of punishment, what specifically mentions the law in Austria is prohibited, which can be understood as an invitation: Large corporations can attach money to the Industrial Union, and these in turn to the parties. - Great! This also does not appear anywhere in the form. An incredible condition! In Germany, if you get caught, you go to the Ports. In Austria one goes around funny and shows those who are striving for an honest and transparent policy, the long nose – with the hint of how the Secretary-General of the ÖVP does: We are all clean, because we adhere to the law. You can or need not stick to the law because it says nothing. It is a free letter for real abuses that one does not want at all, and that is why it becomes as important as the parties position themselves here. We will not let Mr Kaltenegger go through it, that he is right – rightly! – points to the SPÖ and says: Clarify this with your foundations! – But we won't wait that long. The foundations are a huge problem because they create transparency per se. Not because of the tax history, because it is legitimate for me – not ethical, not moral, but legitimate – when this is exploited, but it is about not showing one big party to the other and saying: Look at your bodies in the basement before you come to us! We're not going to get far with this mutual body-floating thing. We need a policy that is leading the way, and that is exactly where the transparency provisions are adopted by the Federal Republic of Germany, which the Council of Europe also recommends. – And this one comes in two years and sees what we've been doing. Blocking doesn't make sense, come to reason in good time!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15746	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15767	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Much has already been said about the Court of Auditors' report, which is very comprehensive and very precise. Thank you once again to our group for your house, Mr President Dr Moser. This is a very comprehensive and very good report! We have also noticed many points which have already been raised here by my previous speakers. That's why I don't want to repeat them anymore. I should like, however, to address two small things, once on the question of safety in the off-roads. As far as the 1961 railway crossing regulation is concerned, which has been talking for a long time and where nothing has gone on, it must be said that there is a need for man. We all know the danger of unlimited railway crossings. In this respect, some steam should be made by BMVIT. I would also like to address some of the communities, which has already been mentioned here. It is necessary, we agreed in September that community examinations are carried out. For smaller communities, there is the possibility – Mr Kogler has already mentioned this – of a local supervisory authority. Only I believe that it is not always very objectively examined, but partly party-politically. – I would also like to say the same with regard to certain national accounting courts. A request is made from our side to the President of the Court of Auditors or to the Government. I would encourage you to do a little more work and propose to abolish the national accounting courts and instead position an office of the really unpolitical Federal Court of Auditors in each federal state. The would be a way to ensure that there is really an accurate and well-tested check. – I believe that this would be a common, yes, a good way to ensure that there is no party-political action. In many countries, a lot is being examined according to the party's book, which is not in the sense of this institution. So that would be a good step. One should consider this at a political level, but I would like to place it here on this subject. I believe that many problems would also be solved by your side if you, as an institution of the federal government, could examine different areas and institutions of the countries, both factually and over-participally. – That would be necessary, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I noticed in the 2009 examinations – in short: perhaps the most spectacular – the ORF exam with 57 recommendations. There's already to say that there's something in the arse when you find 57 abuses in an institution. Something should happen. I will keep my remarks short and pay attention to the speaking time because the urgent ones are called. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors once again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15827	Next speaker: Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15849	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The present Court of Auditors report gives a brief overview of all the Court of Auditors' audits in the year under review and of other activities. It also deals with certain specific issues, such as the reorganisation of the regional authorities' financial management, the state of administrative reform, the extension of the audit competences of the Court of Auditors, the impact of the budgetary reform on future audit activities and the fight against corruption. In a clear form, implemented recommendations or the still existing need for follow-up of all audited bodies are presented. Now a few words on extending the audit competence of the Court of Auditors: Especially for me as mayor of a 3,600 inhabitants The Community also has a central role to play in extending the audit competence of the Court of Auditors to smaller communities. So far, the Federal Court of Auditors has been planning the examination of the birth of communities with more than 20,000 inhabitants. These are currently 24 out of the 2 356 Austrian municipalities. ==References== In September of the previous year, we invited the Federal Government here in the House to present within six months, i.e. until the end of March, a proposal for the reorganisation of the audit competences in relation to municipalities. – So for a very long time, the government doesn't have time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the municipalities are key partners in the performance of state tasks, in the Stability Pact and in the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria and, of course, taxpayers have a right to the proper handling of the taxes paid by them. The objective must be to examine communities and, above all, to provide comprehensive advice. However, the extension of the audit competence of the Federal Court of Auditors must be uniform and correct, to avoid double- and multiple-tracks – so no more tests, but less. I cannot get back to the proposal of the President of the Court of Auditors, Moser, in any way. In an interview, it meant that municipalities from 10,000 inhabitants or from an annual budget of more than €10 million should fall into the audit competence of the Federal Court of Auditors. For me, this is a disparity between the communities. Rather, communities should be reviewed if certain key figures are exceeded, because the size of the municipality or the budget volume does not say anything about the caution of the local functionaries acting. I thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his team for their excellent work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15897	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. I would draw attention to the need to interrupt your speech at 3 p.m. to call for urgent inquiry. You've got two minutes left. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15918	Then I'll take a minute. – Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate High House! I should also like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and his staff, not only for the annual activity report 2009, but also for the activity throughout the year. A little self-critically, I should like to point out that the Court of Auditors has not in all cases been given the opportunity to review or review federal laws or regulations before their entry into force as regards the financial impact on the federal or other local authorities. However, the reason for this was often the enormous time pressure that was given to be able to implement effective measures in the 2009 crisis year. The best example was and is the 2008 economic recovery law. As very positive, I would like to highlight the process of the demand process – Mr Gahr has already responded anyway. This morning, we have repeatedly heard from our Federal Minister for Finance Josef Pröll that the municipalities, the Republic and the federal states face huge budgetary challenges. The right and important impulse packages in recent months have reduced the economic downturn in Austria than in many other countries of Europe. However, we are now required to bring the budget deficit back to the Maastricht criterion on the expenditure side. The proposals made by the Court of Auditors for a structural administrative reform and a genuine, genuine red tape reduction are certainly very helpful. But I would also like to make an appeal to ourselves: We should not forget or perhaps even remember that we are a legislative body here, but in the sense of red tape reduction and redefinition of laws could also be a law-making body. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15961	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:34]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning: Austria is unregulated – RedBlack cashed unscathed! (4543/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e15994	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 4543/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e17015	I declare Mr Deputies Bucher as the first questioner to state the reasons for the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e17037	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Members of the Federal Government! The BZÖ is behind this urgent request that it is apparently necessary to remind the Federal Government and, above all, the head of government of the resumption of government, that it is necessary to remind him that there has been a government agreement or that there is still – you do not know that so well – that you have concluded with the ÖVP in 2009, and we remind you to take a look at this government programme again. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] At the time, you from ÖVP and SPÖ pointed out that you have established over 70 commissions, working groups and experts on the various issues you want to consult to deliver results and to outline and formulate a proper government programme. We are now asking ourselves, after one and a half years of activity in this Federal Government, what these many working groups, these committees and experts have promoted in terms of results. In the meantime, one and a half years have passed, but apparently there is still inactivity there, there are no real results that the Council of Ministers can deal with, for otherwise it is impossible to explain, ladies and gentlemen, that last week a Council of Ministers took place, which had to be provided with a decision at all, because half of the government's team had flown out to the most diverse countries and trips, for which there was no justification at all and there is no justification at all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible!]] You have to ask the question: Do you not control your government team, Mr Bundeskanzler, because, so to speak, the members of the government are sailing around the world history without pursuing a proper mission?- Oh, my God! And on top of that: There are hardly any government documents, there are hardly any measures you can take to ensure that our country comes out of this terrible economic crisis and this enormously high unemployment, but you are sending ministers to the Olympic Games in Vancouver, such as the Minister of the Interior, where everyone is already wondering what the Minister of the Interior has to look for at the Olympic Games! What did she lose there, Mr. Federal Chancellor? [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Mr Faymann, you are the head of government, therefore: Answer this question! Mr. Darabos was also in Vancouver. Yeah, he's the sports minister, but why does Mr. Darabos have to fly to the Olympic Games? – To push the thumbs there and then fly off to Mallorca, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! The Minister's travel activity does not tear off. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I wonder very slowly: What will be the next Council of Ministers meeting on content? Will you exchange travel reports? Will there be a slide show or will a picture catalog be presented around, showing whomever one has shaken the hand – in India or wherever – and where has any esorgia been done about it? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, that cannot be your serious! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At last take government seriously and make sure that you implement at least what you did a year and a half ago! You cannot blame us here in the House for not having any reforms, for not taking action, for I must stress, for you have remained guilty of a number of government proposals in the last few weeks and months! There is nothing from the government offices here in Parliament, there is no legislative framework at all with which Parliament could deal with these committees. The number of plenary sessions had to be shortened. The opposition has, as it were, had to bear in mind that we are going to have an agenda here at all! Today, we are dealing with four first readings so that there is no justification at all for holding a plenary session today. That is why it is so necessary to draw your attention to the fact that you, Mr Faymann, are the head of a federal government that you have an order to take action for this country and finally comply with your government activities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We have an economic crisis in Austria with enormous consequences: 400,000 workers find no employment, look for a job! However, the government is inactive! The Minister for Social Affairs points out that there is a difficult situation. – We know this in the meantime, Mr Social Minister and Mr Bundeskanzler, but we expect a government to take action to make proposals on how our country can get out of this difficult situation. We have poverty in Austria, which is spreading ever more. Over a million people in Austria live at the poverty line! In Austria, we have an increase in the number of beneficiaries of social assistance: 9 per cent compared to 2008, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, stop managing poverty, but create a proper employment policy in our country! Take action so that the economic engine will finally start again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But what are you doing about the Federal Government? – You move the budget to next year! You have no ideas at all, you have no recipes and concepts at all, how the budget can be renovated! There is also no consensus between the government parties. Countries and municipalities are moaning under the burden of financing problems and do not know how to carry out their legal contracts and tasks in the coming months and years or years. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, if you have no desire to rule, let us finally talk about making new elections so that an ordinary government policy is made in Austria again – and then leave this federal government if you do not wish to put up with any government activity! – That’s the truth! [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This has never been the case in recent legislative periods, ladies and gentlemen, that a federal government has not been able to present a budget over a period of several months! That has never happened in the history of the Second Republic! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There you don't need to moan around and laugh, ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, that's it. It is unique that a Federal Chancellor and a Finance Minister are unable to present a budget to the House! That's unheard of! The House, Parliament, has a right to know in good time what measures the Federal Government is planning to take to reorganise the budget! Yes, we have a right to do that! Not Brussels should be the first to know what horrors – tax increases et cetera – will come to the Austrians in the future, but you are obliged by the Federal Government to the Austrian Parliament and not primarily Brussels! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Let us take a look at the enormous burden on us in Austria in the future, which challenges are ahead of rehabilitating the budget. And it must be said that in our country we are no longer so far away from the states in Greece! . Now the President of the Court of Auditors is no longer here, but he can certainly predict that to the Federal Government: [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In 2013 we will have a debt mountain of € 280 billion in our country – with ASFINAG and ÖBB! Just to remember: Greece's debt is €300 billion. So we are no longer so far away from Greece; unfortunately, we must also note this at this point. [[Abg. Riepl: With or without Carinthia?]] It is therefore urgently necessary to introduce decisive reforms now, because it is known that reforms in the field of administration, reforms in the education system, health systems, many, many years, are needed until they lead to savings effects and finally take hold. That is why it is necessary to launch reforms now – and not to blurt, not to push away the problems, as your health minister Stöger does, for example. It is incredible, ladies and gentlemen, that we in this Republic are holding a Federal Minister who is unable to identify problems in good time, to analyse problems in good time and to draw the necessary conclusions. I am thinking only of this listriosis scandal, this cheese scandal, which has gone from the Styria, where the ministry has known for many weeks who are the causers of this mess and this scandal, but does not draw any corresponding conclusions from it and makes no decisions. Five Austrians have already died of it, as have two Germans. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is an immense scandal when you know that the ministry has been informed for many weeks and months, and the minister continues to sell “deadly” cheese unsold! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Stöger, you are ready to resign! Free us from your inability and step back! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are experiencing the same mess in the asylum policy, where Mrs Fekter took her leave in Eberau. This has cost only a lot of money, as thousands of euros have been slammed for an absurd asylum project that we have fought from the beginning, where we have from the beginning pointed out that we do not need a third asylum camp in Austria, that it is unnecessary. Firstly, the number of asylum applications is falling, secondly, it would be much more important to invest the money in accelerating asylum procedures. That would be the right measure and not to insure the population and then say goodbye to Vancouver in order to keep the thumbs there for the skiers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the crime rate goes up, the Enlightenment rate down. We have a number of misunderstandings in Austria, and you're pretending you don't touch that as if you didn't do that at all! They are the head of this federal government. They bear the main responsibility for what is happening in Austria. So make sure that the population in Austria gets more security for the taxes it pays! She has a right to safety, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This claim is to be met by safeguarding the borders and ensuring that border guards are set up in Austria, as is the case with Italy, for example. Or the next construction site: the Ministry of Defence. The barracks rust ahead, the material can no longer be used. Even the General Staff says that the implementation of the military reform has been carried out to the grave. And where is the prime minister? - He's in Canada! He is at the Olympic Games and pretends that the whole matter is just a matter of periphery, ladies and gentlemen. This is the chaos in Austria that you manage, and this can be continued, up to the universities, where we have been pointing out for many weeks that it is necessary to finally take control of money there and to ensure that enough professors are available for the students in Austria, that the audiences are equipped with the technology and with the rooms needed to ensure that the students are able to complete their studies. Nowhere are there reforms, nowhere are there approaches to an orderly government policy. This can be further coined up to the justice system in Austria, which is on the verge of a super-GAU, Mrs. Federal Minister. To this end, one comes when one sees what states prevail there. A functioning judicial system, Mrs. Justice Minister, is now the essential feature of democracy and the rule of law. You should keep this in mind over and over again. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Make sure that sufficient staff is available and that this is not carried out at the expense of the complainants! This can be done through to education policy, because there is a mega-dilemma, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as social democrats: How do the Austrians, the parents in Austria, spend 150 million € per year for follow-up hours?- Oh, my God! Explain this to parents! The students have a right to education. It is not for the parents to keep up with their savings, but the schools are responsible for education and not the trade unions! Take a look at this and make sure that an orderly education policy is made in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Since ÖVP always praises itself to be representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you haven't been! You are the representatives of the officials in Austria, you are the representatives of the Ban ken in Austria, but you are already no longer representatives of the middle class and not even the small business entrepreneurs in our country! If you take a closer look at the situation of small businesses in Austria, you will find that these companies are burdened by a huge bureaucracy, that they are punished with much too high taxes, that the additional wage costs they generate, and that for many years nothing has happened to relieve the companies in Austria of this enormous bureaucracy and high taxes. It would be time to move forward the economic upturn, now at the time to ensure that more employment is taking place in Austria again. But we miss that, Mr. Federal Chancellor! We see only that you are currently dealing with completely wrong topics. They deal with the introduction of taxes. If I just think that you want a bank tax now: You don't hear the voice of the people? Wherever we come, this is to be heard in discussions, such as yesterday with your Secretary of State. There were a number of calls at a discussion, and all the callers said unisono: In the final consequence, the bank tax is paying back the bank customer, the borrower. People have long seen how the system works in Austria. [[Abg. Grosz: All laugh!]] If you had ever had a foothold in the economy, Mr Bundeskanzler, then you would not have come to this idea at all. Then you will know that all taxes imposed on a company will be passed on to the final consumer, to the customer. This is the fact that we are not satisfied with this, because it is likely that bank customers will again have to bear the entire burden caused by the banks. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At last, see that we have become a high tax country in Austria, with a tax and tax rate of 43 percent! There we are top riders in the European Union! As a comparison, I always produce Switzerland, which has a tax and tax rate of 27 percent. [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrators: That's not true!]] There is not such poverty as in Austria, and there is also a working infrastructure to which you can rely. But we're a high tax country. We have to go down with taxes, then it will go up again with prosperity and employment. That is why this approach, which you have chosen, is Mr Bundeskanzler, who is completely wrong, because he is also to the detriment of competition in Austria. What do you think companies think if, for example, they are interested in a business establishment in Austria? – They look at the tax culture, they look at the tax rates, and if they see what they have to tax in Austria, then they will not settle in Austria at all, but go elsewhere. You have a completely wrong approach to how you want to deal with this crisis. They are going towards tax increases rather than allowing reforms, and this is the completely wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we do not understand why you are moving the budget decision. We don't understand. Explain to us why you want to decide the 2011 budget only next year! It would be best if you decided in retrospect in December next year, then maybe the hit rate will be a hundred percent, which is the result of the budget figures. But basically, the whole thing is clear: They are planning a load wave for the Austrians. They are planning tax increases in Austria. You do not want to raise expenditure on the budget, but you want to introduce additional taxes and tax increases in Austria, although you know that You have a deadline: You will have to comply with the new budgetary law until 30. The Commission will present its proposals on 4 April. You need us until 30. April will tell you how you want to clean up the budget. That's what I'm asking myself: Why do we even have a budgetary right here in the House? Why, for years and days, do you also urge the opposition to agree to implement a new budgetary law if you do not insist on telling us in time what burdens you are planning for the future? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the completely wrong way you are taking. In Austria, we finally need to tackle the reforms. You know that there are not only 207 recommendations from the Court of Auditors but a number more. I wonder why you stopped the Austrian talks again. Probably because you know that the committees dealing with the reforms are not moving forward, that all have remained ineffective. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really wonder why things do not work properly in Austria. One thing is interesting: As you want to introduce a bank tax in Austria, you know at the same time that the banks actually withdraw up to €2 billion a year in taxes. That's what the Court of Auditors expects you to do. This has not been done by us, but it has been raised by the Court of Auditors. We put a question to the Minister of Finance last May. The question is: How can it be that the Austrian banks withdraw 2 billion € in taxes via representations in tax havens, Cayman Islands, Jersey et cetera? – The answer was: A serious estimate of tax outages by branches of Austrian banks in tax havens is not feasible on the basis of existing data. It is therefore requested to understand that no specific information can be provided. Why do you stay inactive? There are 2 billion euros to get from the banks – but you only demand 500 million, a one-time dispensation! That's something like a ransom for the banks. These 500 million they like to pay, because then they come with 2 billion plus of them. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is also the reason why banks will probably agree to your bank tax willingly: because they get away with a fine once again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the right way! Work for the Republic or take the hat!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e17290	To answer the question, the Federal Chancellor spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e17312	Madam President. Members of the Government! High house! Honourable Members! I would like to ask the question, which contains 36 questions, of which, interestingly, Mr Klubobmann Bucher has not mentioned right now in his speech, but... yes, exactly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you have it in writing!]] [[Abg. Bucher: I have made it!]] But Klubobmann Bucher didn't mention any, and I'm telling you why he didn't mention any: Because he thought it looked a bit funny when he was presenting what he was asking, because that's actually cross and across the surface. You know that very well. I personally think that if you already have the opportunity to discuss with each other in the House, then you should also take the opportunity to really have a serious and intense discussion with each other, not to sum up with any untenable general accusations that have been read in any newspaper in the last three weeks. We have the press mirror, too. There are positive things, there are critical things, there are negative things. But the fact that everything is summarized with the pencil and then presented here is actually a pity from my point of view, because the opportunity to discuss these questions much more intensively in this House, if one made it more concentrated, instead of crossing 36 questions almost on the surface and rowing any headlines across all areas over it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can go deep!]] I still have a request if you're trying to make the government bad, because you think that's kind of part of your business: If you say we're not far from Greece, not our country bad! Greece has provided documents – not the current government, but the previous ones – that were wrong. The situation in Austria is in no way comparable with the situation in Greece! The Austrians have therefore not deserved such a claim. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Pröll did it in the morning! Austria must not become Greece, says Mr Pröll.]] Now to government. - That you don't praise us was accepted. However, I would like to comment on some of these 36 questions, which I believe are serious. We have the second lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. We have the second-lowest youth unemployment in the European Union. Of course, it is our concern that the labour market is working again and that employment is increasing. And we are really satisfied only when we have so much employment again that we are not just the second best but have a real plus of employment. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] For us, the crisis is over only when employment is rising again. We do not measure this in terms of the development of stock markets. For us, the crisis is over, even if employment is rising. And if we want to have a serious discussion on this, we need to think together about how we in Europe – and in the circle of government leaders – can do that together; one of the key issues in the European Parliament is to re-establish growth together. There will be no one who can invent a formula, how to create wealth, social security, additional employment, if one is not able to return to growth through education and research and other framework conditions. But growth alone, economic growth alone would not help, if not also a distribution justice, because growth for a few speculators does not, of course, help to increase revenue in the country and to finance the tasks we have in the state with it. Growth must turn into employment, and it must be fair. But there can be no one who believes, without growth, only through a saving course on a medium-term perspective of 10 or 15 years, that he can maintain the prosperity of maintaining a certain social fairness in Europe. We will also need additional revenue, and this will have to be done if growth results in these revenues and additional jobs being available and the economy can also offer jobs accordingly. So it seems to me to be an important question: How can we prepare ourselves, for example, with ecological challenges, but also in many other areas in Austria, so that in the next few years, through increased education, increased research and development activities, we can contribute to economic growth, so that we do not miss this time to prepare for these challenges. Until then, of course, everything we do in active labour market management, which we pay out to unemployed people – passively – is not ideal. No one wants courses if there are sufficient jobs. No one wants to pay more unemployment or social assistance if the alternative is a good job and economic growth. We are doing so in this situation in Europe and are therefore the second best because we have good conditions in our country to stop the crisis. There are areas directly related to what the government is currently responsible for. But there are, of course, many areas, structures in our country, growing structures in our country, such as the strong structure of small and medium-sized enterprises, and many other things that we now see in real economic terms in the crisis as a special advantage, of which we also benefit, which has a significant share in the fact that we can say at present, we have the second lowest unemployment rate. One of the measures that the government has to take and where it has therefore to contribute in recent months is, of course, a stabilisation of the financial market and banking sector, which I have always known, although, you can believe, the decision at the Hypobank in Carinthia is particularly painful for us, because no one knows what this economy will cost us. Therefore, it is important for us... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] All right, Mr. Strache, you're talking about it. In Carinthia, you can now well see by the example of the hypobank how you would operate in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will look at this very carefully and we should also tell the Austrians. This is a responsibility you will still have to bear. The banking sector has rightly said – and I am also in favour – that we have supported it at a difficult stage, not through the distribution of gifts, but through participation capital, which is also served by a large part with the corresponding interest rates. This also applies to those liabilities that we have taken over for savers, who, of course, have had positive effects in the psychological field, but thus ultimately also in the economically measurable field, as well as very concrete credit actions such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and other measures to be taken by the government. So it was a lot of stabilizers that we have used in this critical phase, which we cannot say today, how much this will cost taxpayers under the rule. I am also opposed to working there with horror figures, as if we were no longer getting back money that we have made available – where we have set clear interest rates for it. I have nothing to do with working with horror numbers here. We cannot say at the hour how much this commitment to stabilise the banking and financial market sector will cost us on resources. He was right and demands – since we do not want a one-way road here – also a performance of the banks in two or three ways: First of all, to support the fact that in the future, damage that occurs is best paid by the banks themselves and not by the taxpayer with too many liabilities. [[Abg. Bucher: So there's no gift?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Street: The biggest gift in the Second Republic!]] These are those discussions that play a role at European and international level in the G20. These have to do with equity capital, with financial market control and should allow for certain interventions in speculation, because ultimately the institution that makes it cannot even pay for the damage caused itself. If one says that some institutions are too large to let them go bankrupt at all, because they would simply take many economic and other important areas for us, then if one has something like an obligation to save, one has to ensure that in the future it is intervened in time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Book]] That's a heated discussion. This will be a conflict-rich discussion. I don't make any illusions either: This will be a hard discussion, because these are issues of capital requirements, of bans on speculation, of restrictions, of financial market architecture, of European credit rating agencies, which are, somewhat apart from current credit rating agencies in Europe, something like a European control. Monitoring, influence – I do not want to say the word “European design” at all, since we are still far away. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let's go to the questions!]] [[Abg. Booker: 36 questions!]] This will be a hard fight, which will not always be pleasant to us. There are a lot of topics. For example, there would be the question of capital allocation, where we are constantly concerned as a medium-sized country in Europe, whether this does not lead to Austrian institutions not being able to afford it, and whether this does not lead to the increase in the size of the large ones. Questions of financial market architecture, which are on the agenda, also call for the persecution of black money, thereby repeatedly creating a discussion on our banking secrecy. So there are a lot of discussions that are about to happen, where we are actively contributing as an Austrian and should not simply watch. But here we have to use the crisis to show the population in Europe that the future of a social European policy is not a savings package, until the benefits to citizens remain, but that this is an offensive investment in the future for growth and fair distribution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to answer your questions, which I respect, but whose answer you probably know mostly, I would like to sum up the answers a little. [[Abg. Bucher: Let's do it!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Thank you! “Respect”!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Petzner.]] The tax cuts, the economic packages, the labour market packages, smaller school classes, school expansion programmes are only an admirable part of what you have partially decided in recent months. I also recall that the liabilities for the banking sector were largely joint decisions and were jointly borne by this House. So it can't be a permanent standstill. At least where you voted, you will see where in our country you have actually made correct and important joint decisions. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Let's start with Question 1!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Answer to Question 1!]] The fact that we also have much more to answer as a government is clear to me, and I am also referring to point-by-point. Let's start with consolidation: The art of consolidation is that we do not delete the benefits of social security in the country, that we do not deteriorate the quality of health care, but that we provide services at cheaper prices. This is – and I can stress this once again – a special achievement of the Court of Auditors that he has made many proposals to politics. They have often triggered a lot of controversial discussions, because different responsibilities and competences do not make it possible for individuals to simply say: Yes, the Court of Auditors, thank you for the proposals I will make tomorrow. – Many of these things can only be achieved with social partners or with federal or federal competences. Thus, the right choice in saving is not to provide half the benefits or, to give an example, to treat only those who can afford it optimally in the hospital. So, not reduction of quality performance is the goal of savings packages, but the elimination of double-tracks, the search for ways to simplify something in bureaucracy, delete, improve something in the processes. We all know that, of course, in Austria with our federal structure, we have a challenge of a special kind. On the one hand, we are very proud of this federal structure, but there is no federal country that makes proposals on its own to deliver competences. There is therefore a need for coordination at national level, often also at local level. You will not be surprised at the fact that this coordination is easy to say and I can easily list a few points, but that they must be enforced in hard negotiations. This is the reason why the issue of administrative reform has been working on us for so many years. I am convinced that when the first discussions took place, no one of you was probably there at the time. Even those who have been in this House for a very long time are shorter than the administrative reform discussion is already taking place. [[Abg. Stache: The Clubobmann Cap maybe!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Parliament has been with Cap for 40 years now!]] So the debate on how we can move forward on education issues and on questions of hospital reform with federal competence and with responsibilities that are very divided in our country is just ahead of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] To this end, we did not set up a working group according to the motto: If you don't want something, make a working group! But in the narrow sense of the word, we have a working group with full involvement of the Court of Auditors, from which many of these correct proposals come. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you don't know any more!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Question 1!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Come to the answer!]] Now our strategy is very simple, and I'm not one of those who already say we're going to make it so easy. I am always very specific to your questions, and questions 1, 2 and 3, the examinations, measures and so on concerning the structural and administrative reforms mean that we are doing very precise analyses to the federal states in order to prove to them that double-tracks in our country in savings programmes... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 19 working groups!]] Yes, but if 19 or 25 or 30 working groups make sense. I measure this on the results and know how hard the results are to be worked out in a country with split competences. [[Abg. Booker: Is there something?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where are the results?]] [[Abg. Grosz: And you believe that?]] There, where negotiations have already taken place, under the leadership of the Minister of Health, for example with the health insurance companies, I could pick out old speeches from you, where you have explained to us that the health insurance companies are practically bankrupt, the patient must already be afraid that there is no chance at all there, there is no longer even light there at the end of the tunnel, there is no hope – I do not know all, but many of your contributions to them. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Maria!]] [[Abg. Bucher: Bad example! The worst example!]] [[Abg. Petzner: The Minister of Health is life-threatening!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Minister of Health threatens your health!]] What is reality like? – The results of the negotiations with the cash registers can already be seen. The savings begin, the reduction in medication has begun. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Deleted!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The cash registers are renovated? Is that right?]] – The Minister of Health has said that he can also, if you are really interested in a more detailed discussion, list this in all the details. For the first time, the health insurance companies have results that correspond to our plans to provide more financial resources, which suddenly – as you can always list everything that could be – cause you no longer to speak of bankruptcy suspicions and dangers of the cash registers because you see that in this area, for example, very concrete progress is being made, namely that savings and the additional resources lead to the beginning of comprehensible successes. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: In Upper Austria?- Oh, my God!]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] This has nothing to do with the hospital. Hospitals are an area of their own. I've already talked about the skills. [[Abg. Bucher: So first question still not answered!]] For budget creation and consolidation: To reduce the deficit by 3 per cent by 2013 and to submit it to Parliament by the end of April in a rough manner, in which areas of this path is committed by us, you can now find it hard to hold hands in February. Therefore, I find the accusation of yours that you do not yet have something from us, which you get by the end of April, rather personally. [[Abg. Bucher: Arbeitskreis!]] I can therefore answer you the following: We are working very intensively – including in our government clause and in the days and weeks thereafter – so that, as the Financial Regulation provides, you can get something presented here in Parliament in good time. I know today – without you knowing our documents – that you will say that all is too little, too little detail, too little good for you. This is in the nature of your self-understanding as an opposition. But you can rest assured that we will put something forward in the framework of the Financial Regulation, which has been decided by Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So anything?- Oh, my God!]] You will not see all the details in this, but they will come in the context of the budget speech and the budget decisions – of course this year – but also next year for the double budget 2012/2013, where the need for consolidation is of course much higher. The figures must then be presented in a degree of detail, so to speak, gradually by us. But you can rely that you get the demand in April, because we work on it. Just as you rightly decided in Parliament, we have the responsibility for implementation. The G20 and the European Union are also discussing whether, on the revenue side, revenue can be shared internationally, as with the economic packages, which are simultaneously or even jointly in the narrower sense of the word. [[Abg. Bucher: Question 1!]] This includes the transaction tax, which includes the bank levy. These include the points you address regarding the regulation of financial markets, which include the points you require in connection with consolidation. [[Abg. Blow: What question are you making?]] [[State Secretary Dr. Ostermayer: 11!]] [[Abg. Booker: Where are you?]] – You need to listen and read your questions so you don’t overestimate your questions, but read it again! [[Abg. That's not an answer! You just go over the questions! You can't answer questions like that! There's no such thing as that!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Just because you don't like the questions...!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Arbitrator: Question 12!]] [[Abg. Grosz: A search for traces!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] They have received many details from us on the issue of 12 – security, intelligence and crime prevention – that we agreed in the government programme to train 1,000 police officers more, despite savings measures in the human sector. [[Abg. Grosz: Where are they?]] That they are not trained in the minute, but that the Minister of the Interior has committed itself... – But we do not rule for three years in this responsibility that you address. [[Abg. New builder: You knew that three years ago!]] [[Abg. Street: Since 2006!]] We have presented the plans to you in the Government Declaration, and you are happy to measure whether we are fulfilling the plans promised by the Government Declaration and also by the Minister for the Interior with concrete steps to increase the number of police planning posts. [[Abg. Neubauer: You already ruled in 2006!]] That social peace, a good education, an integrated society are the best prevention and that I want to reduce the discussion on crime not only to police equipment, you know. However, the equipment of the police includes, in addition to increasing staff levels, the additional assistance provided by employees from the postal and telecommunications sectors, which is carried out gradually. In addition, we have extended the German army's assistance in order not to use the police in the border regions of our country, in Lower Austria and in the Burgenland, because we need them even more urgently in other places. The interaction of police and assistance is an aid to the activity and intelligence of the police. This reconnaissance can also be demonstrated and proved. You can also ask the population there. The assistance is therefore further supported by us. On issue 13 concerning asylum and procedural acceleration: I can only say once again that legislation has been passed in this House which allows the Minister of the Interior to fight more effectively against asylum abuse. At the same time, we always note that in the political debate, we do not let all be thrown into a pot. Someone seeking asylum is not at the same time suspected of misusing this protection. We divide very precisely between those who need asylum and those who misuse asylum. We do not want to beat political change at the expense of people who need protection. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Amon.]] We want to shorten the procedures and are convinced... – With the Asylum Court, with the measures you have partly decided on, which we have all discussed here. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Who?]] The situation is such that a decrease in the number of applications is currently to be noted. We will take the opportunity to observe the situation in the next few months. Then we'll see if a new first recording center or several small ones are necessary or not. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where?]] [[Abg. Strache: In Simmering one is planned!]] We will continue to shorten the procedures, we will continue to carry out the measures we have decided on, and we will continue this way of having as short a procedure as possible to ensure that people get to their right or thus also fight abuse quickly. On question 14 on the staff of the judicial system: They know that the Minister of Justice here has also publicly presented her plans, that 70 other planning posts will be made available, and that discussions with representatives of the judiciary will take place this week. [[Abg. Bucher: Arbeitskreis!]] As in the other areas, we trust the appropriate Minister of State to use what she knows well from her personal experience, in order to promote reforms on the one hand, and on the other hand to improve equipment in cooperation with other departments within the government on the other. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the question 15 concerning universities, domestic and foreign students and quotas: You also know that for medicine and dentistry, 75 percent of all study places are reserved for Austrians, 20 percent for EU citizens and 5 percent for non-EU citizens. I also know that the project to extend this scheme with the European Union, which is not an active scheme, but is more or less a memorandum, does not provide a solution to the problem. But You know as well as I do that higher education and higher education policy in Europe are so different that the fact that a country has the Numerus clausus would only result in a person who wants to avoid it – I am not talking about different examination and entrance stages and different study fees – because he does not create access under this requirement automatically to another country. That would mean that, hardly does a country make anything restrictive at its universities, we have to rethink it so that no student elsewhere in Europe is avoiding it. Finally, we have put together the most restrictive regulations. This is not the meaning of higher education policy. [[Abg. Bucher: What is your proposal?]] That is why it is not the task of European higher education policy that we are doing everything that can be done restrictively – rightly or wrongly – and that we automatically copy it, but that we come to a European higher education policy, which provides more places for students and, of course, offers a common solution, whether with compensation, the creation of a common education policy or the anchoring and shaping of a common education and science policy. [[Abg. Bucher: What are you doing?]] Each of us knows that 27 countries have extremely different models. Even in the German-speaking region, there are differences between our German neighbours and Austria. This leads to what I think is right, that Mrs. Karl says she will work both for the extension of the current memorandum and actively – with me, with all the others in common at European level – for the creation of a common higher education policy. That doesn't rule out, it belongs together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] On question 16: The Federal Government has adopted its National Action Plan for Integration. You know the interplay between the federal government, the states and the municipalities. For a long time, I was allowed to work in Vienna in an area that of course plays a major role in social policy integration, namely housing and urban renewal, supply and demand. [[Abg. Strache: Today we have a shredded pile in Vienna, which you left behind!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Reines Chaos in Vienna!]] But also in education policy, a interaction between competences is an essential point of integration, even before school, in order to recall only as a measure the pre-school year in kindergarten, the last kindergarten year. So there is this National Action Plan for Integration. I know that there is a great need here for us to advance this issue from education to childcare to housing and, of course, to the economic sector over the next few months, because in the end we are also leading the population in our country to think that integration is serious if it feels that we are making a difference between combating crime on the one hand and integrative measures on the other. This constant mixing – all one thing, whether crime or integration – does not lead our country to success, but only leads to indifference, and I have nothing left for me to do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Question 17 – Strengthening research –: A new strategy will be presented by the summer until 2020. Why? – We are already discussing this research strategy in the next few days, because of course research is something you need to think about in the medium and long term and where you cannot change the conditions too often. The question of the extent to which research with so-called indirect research funding would be better lifted than with direct research resources, in order to promote projects, such as in the ecological field, more targeted in order to form targeted research clusters, is one that I strongly support from their point of view. However, it is necessary not to put forward a new measure every month as a Fleckerlteppich, but to vote together on this 2020 research strategy. With regard to questions 18 to 28, which are raised in connection with Federal Minister Stöger, who will speak in the debate, I can only stress once again: The Ministry, as well as the health authorities under it, in the interaction of indirect and direct federal administration, quickly examined the situation and took measures, blocked the undertaking concerned, removed the food from the market and informed the public. [[Call FPÖ, BZÖ and Greens:But where?! When?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strache: The cheese scandal is all yours!]] – Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, then speaks and tells you. We don't have any secrets. However, it is likely that you will be unable to take back health effects that occurred before the time you get to know them, even if you do not need medical advice. [[Abg. Grosz: No! Eight Mo nate...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, in addition to the measures taken, which he has already announced publicly and which he will explain here today in this House, the Federal Minister also wants a consistent control of food, by introducing a quality mark law, in order to strengthen, in general, even more reliable national quality marks and independent controls, in order to strengthen the safety and information of consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek:... This is a dangerous threat!]] I can't take it seriously that you demand that you intervene before you get to know an abuse. [[Abg. Grosz: 14. August, Federal Chancellor! Half a year!]] [[Abg. Street: Half a year later!]] The awareness of an abuse depends on the controls in order to get on with it as quickly as possible. However, it is not possible to have retroactive influence on health effects that have previously arisen. You know that. The Federal Minister has no responsibility at all. He has assumed and also exercised his responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. That's great!]] On questions 29 to 34 – Federal Government, operational capacity, assistance use –: We will also have the opportunity in the National Security Council to hold this discussion with those responsible for the federal army. You yourself have heard the public statements of the last few days from those responsible for the federal army, including the Federal Minister, namely the fact that, of course, construction programmes are under way in individual areas which have not yet been completed. – What a surprise! In other areas where more money is needed, of course, money is missing, but in times of scarce cash, it is not expected that we can simply strengthen the funds, even though I can imagine in the area of disaster protection that the resources needed to be optimally prepared should, of course, be stronger. In the economic crisis, it is simply not the hour and not the time to meet generous demands, but there is a plan presented by the Federal Minister, the Federal Army and the administration, which have a lot to do with investment. But of course, if you asked me if I knew areas in a ministry where, if I had more resources at my disposal, I would like to use them, then the answer would be: Yes, but you have to earn it. The situation of our economy and economic development will certainly also, as soon as the revenue has risen and the economic crisis has survived, cause us to finance further improvements, which we would like to have, but which are not all currently manageable in our country at the same time, in addition to the improvements we can make. On questions 35 and 36 concerning employment: You know that the Social Ministry and the Labour Market Service are implementing measures that do not represent any kind of transition and are ultimately unsuccessful. The evaluation clearly shows that these qualifications of people, of young people who are unemployed, lead to a high proportion of them being found afterwards. If Austria is one of the countries in Europe where the time spent in unemployment is the shortest, for example, of young people, then we also note that in difficult times our businesses help, for example through short-term biting models or through coordinated joint training programmes, not simply to get rid of people, but in the joint responsibility with the companies of our country to create transitional arrangements, to create qualification programmes to help overcome this thirst route together even in difficult times. This is a merit of the labour market service, which is a merit of our joint decision-making policy, but it is also a merit of the companies of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e18328	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. I call Mr Grosz. I'll set the clock up to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e18355	Madam President. High house! Thank you very much to the Socialist Group for the continuing applause. I'm very touched. And now for serious. Dear Mr Faymann, I assume that I am dealing with the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria, because if you explain at the beginning of the answer to this urgent question, that is so many areas, then I can already remind you that the Austrian Chancellor does not have a policy competence – such as the German Chancellor – but still has a coordination competence. If the Federal Chancellor de facto is not responsible for anything and is actually there for nothing, we could save this function. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Are you submitting him with competence?]] That you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, need 10 minutes for the assessment of the questions and then come in delay in answering them, we cannot do that either. If you are swaddling about the autumn potatoes, we can hardly believe that then there will be no time left for the essential questions we were concerned with, because the failure and failure of this federal government will pass through all areas, and that is quite impressive. The most tragic and dramatic failure is the case of the seven deaths since October 2009, provisionally ending with today's knowledge of a death case, which occurred in February – or in January – and which was announced only now, a month later. [[Abg. Krainer: January! Start January!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who knows what else is coming!]] Never in the history of the Second Republic has there been such a direct and visible link between the political failure of a functionary and the tragic fate of people to death in Austria. 21 Diseases and seven deaths – including those in the Federal Republic of Germany, where in Germany the Robert Koch Institute announces that they are still expecting further cases of illness. Mr Federal Minister, I can read something to you in the first place, namely your own report, which you have in January – in January! - have given control to the EU disease centre and the control centre on 4 April. February 2010 has been published – 11 days before you said after the Council of Ministers that you would not have known anything about this affair in Austria until that day. ‘We report an outbreak of listeriosis in Austria and Germany due to the consumption of,Quargel’ cheese produced by an Austrian manufacturer. At the time of writing this report, the break was able to account for 14 outbreak cases in 2009, including four cases with lethal exit.” [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Holpriges English!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Deimek: In German, you don't understand!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Take a course!]] ==References====External links== August 2009 the outbreak of this disease – not a single disease, but three diseases! - was to be reported. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Scandal! He says he doesn't know anything! He tells everyone that he didn't know anything, and writes on 14 April. August already a letter! Unbelievable! Incredible!]] ==References== August, in a letter to the European Union, reports that there have been diseases in Austria. In September – 2009, only so that we do not misunderstand; You may have been misinformed by your own Minister of Health – mentions your place of business and also receives the Director-General for Public Health in Austria, Dr. Hrabcik von der AGES reports that two other diseases were reported; in October five more diseases, in November one, in December three, and in 2009 – not 2010! – Six deaths, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Petzner: He says he doesn't know anything!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: October!]] What do we read, Mr Bundeskanzler, in your own minister's diary, in the Ministry of Health's crisis diary? We read on 27. October 2009, when we were already responsible for some deaths in Austria: Reporting on the incidence of human listriosis cases from the AGES to the office of the Federal Commission. – A report of frequent occurrence where we had to record the first dead! ==References== October 2009: First meeting in the framework of the working group. – A dead person who threatens to die for the second time, several diseases: First meetings in the framework of the working group! – That of those working groups that you have quoted! ==References== November is noted in this diary: First confirmation of a listriosis death trap. ==References== December – a month later – is announced that the first boxes of two patients had arrived. At a time when six people already had to die in Austria, at a time when 11 diseases are present, at a time when your health agency has been working since 14. August knows that the bacterial strains are related, please note in the diary of your AGES and your health ministry that the first boxes of two patients have arrived! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's never happened before! An incredible scandal!]] ==References== January 2010, a month before you have admitted publicly that we have this problem in Austria, order the Styrian food supervision with further surveys. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You didn't believe that we did all this...!]] ==References== January – so honest, Mr Federal Minister, at least in this paper, if not to the public and this House – is the report to the European Commission on these incidents. ==References== February explain to us that you only learned about this scandal that day. [[Call the BZÖ: Unbelievable!]] Mr. Federal Minister, I'm getting it to the point. ==References====External links==* Official website February at 5:23: “The” – Austrian – “authorities have left the information work to a captive company and have negligently violated their duty to take care of citizens’ health. When the cheese products were clearly identified as the cause of four deaths in Austria, an unmistakable warning of consumption would have been the only right measure,” criticized foodwatch managing director Thilo Bode – no unknown to you. Mr. Federal Minister, what you've been doing since 14. August and no later than 22. didn't do it on September: You have not carried out any current risk assessment in your own ministry or at least the reason for your food authorities to do so also within the framework of the indirect and direct federal administration in the federal states. ==References====External links== There was no protection in February as we now know from other diseases. They have not allowed information to be provided to the population. ==References== You don't warn yourself. You did not send any representatives of your food authorities to Hartberg. No, you have made the mistake of leaving the crisis management in the January of a company that should already be regarded as suspicious and not reliable, since the false identification of this “Hartberger Farmer’s Quargel” has only made it striking. Dear Federal President Grillitsch, a “Hartberger Farm Quargel”, which contains ingredients of Dutch milk and German pot, and then in Hartberg, although he has never seen a farmer, which makes wonderful metamorphosis a agricultural product from Styria, is a scandal of our Austrian food label. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Retire!]] [[Abg. Petzner: Retire!]] This company has still given you the confidence to decide in Austria on life and death, dear Mr. Stöger! Therefore, you and also your staff have been guilty of the suspicion of the aid for negligent bodily injury with death. This is the clear finding of your inactivity to this day. Mr. Federal Minister, we are therefore expressing our distrust. They're a danger to health. They are professionally and objectively unable to carry this place in this difficult phase of a food scandal. You may have been a good cash officer. They may have been a sparing local health phone in Upper Austria. They may have been many things, but you do not understand enough of veterinary and food diseases and are therefore unable to lead this country out of this crisis. Therefore, it is the minimum – also to the victims – that you withdraw. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e18617	The request just submitted is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19060	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19092	Madam President. High house! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Help him out of the...!]] I'm actually surprised that after months of abstinence, the BZÖ, which is rather lost in the valleys, meadows and forests in Carinthia, is finally able to stand up for political action and activity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven dead...!]] [[Abg. Bucher: The situation is serious! Seven dead!]] But the difference is: You should actually know how to rule, because you have been in the government before. That's why I'm really surprised by the urgents you brought in today. Weeds and beetroots, up and down, no one knows each other! There everything is packed in it, the Grosz makes his private election campaign, the Member of Parliament Klubobmann Bucher is, so to speak, the Republic-globalist – that is what you are bringing in here. When we talk about the banks, we have to talk about why we need to discuss a bank solidarity levy at all. [[Abg. Bucher: When answering the Chancellor, no one knew what question he was dealing with!]] [[Abg. Grosz: Rather take a position on seven dead!]] – For a simple reason: because so much tax money is simply poured into the Hypo Alpe-Adria, because the Republic has 18 billion euros to assume liability! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And then you come here and say, No, you can't! I can't do that! [[Abg. Street: 1.8 billion for raiffeisen, 1.6 billion for...!]] Then talk about tax havens. – Well, you should know about the Hypo Alpe-Adria, what's going on with tax havens! You have had political responsibility for years! [[Abg. Bookers: Who are the guilty? Who are the guilty of the scandal? –... Manager! That's how it looks!]] And you can do that. You are not "disgusting" and I am clearly telling you that, neither Kurt nor Uwe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You can't hide it. You were there! – Yes, you may have forgotten when you were wandering around in the woods and meadows in search of the delegates votes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you say to the Minister of Health?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Minister of Health?]] I'll only tell you when you talk about who worked for Austria: Well, the Federal Government has worked for Austria! [[Abg. Bucher: That's what we see. Five dead in Austria!]] – They’ve done quite a different thing in the meantime. You've had a conflict, a conflict, a dispute. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Minister of Health?]] At least you didn't work for Austria. This, I think, can be clearly stated, and I think that must be said clearly in the context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I think it's so brave to go out there and keep these Philippines as someone who worked! – And you even admit it! If you explain how bad the whole education policy is, you say: “The country of poor education policy – home, are you stupid sons?” – this sluggish against gender, also making fun of the fact that women and men are to be treated together in writing and language – and then quote the 2006 PISA study, which impressively proves that you have not brought anything together in the government in which you have cooperated in this field! [[Abg. Bucher: This is a quote!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: So what about the seven dead now and the Minister of Health?]] Yes, if this urgent matter is to be understood as self-criticism, as a criticism of your work in the time of your government participation, then I see it quite differently. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven dead!]] This is a good effort, but then you should have worked through all the chapters. We could have met that I could have made a contribution – all of us here, our local speakers – about what you were responsible for when you were in the government. [[Abg. Bucher: Parliament has been waiting for your contribution for 40 years!]] [[Call:... for 27 years here]] [[Abg. Bucher: For 27 years we have been waiting for your contribution!]] And I think it is courageous that you have taken this quote out of the PISA study – in the meantime, and you know it quite well, educational investment is running, the new middle school is running, and there are really initiatives here, despite the crisis-like development everything is being done. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the Minister of Health?]] You don't want to hear it, but it's in the final effect. [[Abg. Bucher: What about Minister Stöger?]] But I was actually with the banks before. In the time you were at the government: the highest tax and tax rate! Skill You remember? [[Abg. Bucher: We saved the BAWAG!]] The highest tax and tax rate! – Every time you look for this style of discussion, you will also hear from us what you were responsible for at the time. There were over 43 percent, don't forget that! And I could continue this endlessly, up to what has affected the crime rate, the intelligence rate – everything in your time. [[Abg. Petzner: What do you say to your Minister of Health?]] [[Abg. Bucher: To the Mr. Stöger? – Go with Mr. Stöger.]] But I found another point in there. You know, I really read your urgents. In this urgent situation there is still the following quote: ‘BM Darabos: “I am only three years minister – the German army has existed since 1955”. – That was Your place! You've been sitting there! And then the great set comes on page 20 “The only realistic alternative was the SAAB flu. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven dead!]] This was 3.4% cheaper than the Eurofighter. That is almost 70 million euros, but they would not have made sustainable progress by the German army as a whole." Under the motto: 70 million € do not make the herb fat either. – Well, you're on the sand, I can tell you that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven dead!]] If you judge this, if for you only €70 million are air baggage, then I can only say, I'm not surprised at anything. You have to account for the high cost of the Eurofighter purchase. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Seven dead!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What do you say to the Minister of Health?]] And, well, you could have renovated the barracks even more then. The Minister Scheibner is sitting there. Check it out! He's got all this to answer. And at least you were there at the time. So, please, not such urgent – except you come out once and clear up once again with your entire policy of the years when you were in the government. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Seven dead, and you say no word! Don't say a word to the Minister of Health!]] That would be interesting once. That would be a contribution to democratic hygiene. Please do that at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19572	Mr Klubobmann's head is now on the table. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19594	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that it is a sad moment and a tragic matter when, as a result of this list of diseases, seven deaths in Austria are due to complain. I think we should talk about it in peace – of course, that is also our responsibility. But such hysterical screaming and such a talk, especially on this issue, that is, I don't think it is the right form to talk about such a tragic story, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And also on the issue of seriousness, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ: Introducing an urgent one, with herb and beet intertwined, in an insanity, also the language, and thus then connecting the debate on these tragic events, which shows in fact how infernal [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tax increases are “crouts and beetroots”?]] [[Abg. Booker: We don't have so many urgent ones! – We could do one every day!]] You are dealing with this very serious matter. This is really not the way you treat such a thing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Prince: If they can't do it better!]] To the urgent, colleague Bucher: I mean, what is there to criticise the fact that the Federal Government is on the road internationally and has contacts? We do not live on an island of the Blessed, where we have nothing to do with others! Politics is international in such a way that it is, of course, absolutely necessary to maintain these contacts. And you criticize that?! - That's really incredible. [[Abg. Bucher: What does the Interior Minister do in Vancouver? What does Mrs. Fekter do in Vancouver, the Minister of the Interior?]] Secondly, Mr Bucher: You criticise that there is no budget for 2011 in January 2010 yet? – It has, please, never been given at that time! And there will never be, that wouldn't make sense either. So, to criticise this and make it a matter of urgency, is no longer to be exaggerated to absurdity. [[Abg. Bucher: Not for the subject matter!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: They criticize that there is only one plenary day in February. – There has been a budget for the last ten years, except for the elections in the autumn of the previous year, either zero plenary day or a plenary day in February, as in February. What is there to criticize? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There was only one in January!]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: There is not even one!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The heading of this urgent request is as follows: Austria unregulated? – Yes, who has decided on a bank package, which has ensured that the savers do not lose their deposits, that the small and medium-sized economy continues to receive their loans? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We!]] Who has decided on two economic packages and an employment promotion package that has helped us to have the second lowest unemployment rate in all countries? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And who by means of a tax reform has made sure that the taxpayers, the service providers of this country, have been relieved with over €3 billion? – It was this Federal Government under Chancellor Faymann and Vice Chancellor Josef Pröll, who did this, supported by this House, at least of the two majority groups of this House, to a good part also decided on by you. Is this to be criticized? - I mean, not. [[Abg. Bucher: We ask yes! That's a urgent question!]] I mean, it's to support and praise. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bucher: Should we stop asking questions? – These are questions!]] Next item, ladies and gentlemen: You criticise this Parliament's failure to work? What do you want to prove this to? – 32 meetings last year, without the allocation sessions, more than in 2008! 152 laws that were passed! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Special Meetings...!]] [[Abg. Bucher: First readings!]] This is quite similar to all the other years before. And I mean, I'm not very anxious to exceed the average of the last few years in law-making decisions, because there's enough bureaucracy that comes from law-making decisions. So, anyway, we should consider every legislative decision well before we take it here. [[It was in favour of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ as well as Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] But just to remember a few points: Violent package, family law, school and university laws, EIA, environmental liability, agricultural law, ÖBB, Telekom law – from each department a wealth of government documents and subsequent legislative decisions in this House. And the so highly criticised health minister has also made an important contribution with a rehabilitation package for the health insurance companies – a first step, as one has to admit, but an important first step towards rehabilitating the health insurance companies. So, from all the departments, there have been substantial proposals that have contributed to the fact that we have taken a proper step forward in the design of our country than before. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One last point, ladies and gentlemen: That's what it says: ‘RotSchwarz cashiert’. They fantasize tax increases and downfalls. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: We will see everything!]] I don't know. Are these hallucinations, or what are you suffering from? [[Abg. Bookbooker: Stability programme!]] Yes, we need to clean up the budget, no question at all! And no, we don't want to do it about taxes, but about savings, savings – but that structurally and with balanced, socially balanced and performance-oriented. That'll be the credo we'll use in budget recovery. And we will not forget – the Federal Chancellor has pointed out earlier – about offensive measures in the field of research, education and innovation. The future lies in this, and we must not forget that in this area. Save on the one hand – cleverly, structurally effective – but on the other hand, do not forget the gas supply, because in it, as has been said, the future lies for us. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] This means, of course, that at the end of April we will have the Financial Framework Act here in this House, as provided for in the law, and we will have the budget for the next year in good time in this House. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: When?]] Then we will have to discuss it calmly. Finally, just one more appeal to the opposition: You have the choice in this difficult situation in which we are in and in which it is a matter of putting the budget in order after the restructuring phase. You can act in a state-political way with us – or you can continue to do so as today, namely populist, but to the detriment of the country. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Go!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19900	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e19922	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, What you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have offered here today was about a picture of how it is normally offered on the Tschun Stegreifbühne. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] You have not addressed in any way what has been asked about questions to you. You have completely withdrawn here, and in fact you have disregarded the Rules of Procedure here. You've been giving some statements here for almost an hour. Questions 1 to 10 have not answered at all. In between, you have said that a block of questions will be answered later. – This question is addressed to you, Mr Bundeskanzler, and it is your duty to answer these questions here! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] But it is already true that the Austrians are now used to the fact that political responsibility has been abolished in Austria. We have been able to observe this in recent months: Ministers will not be sent to the investigation committees. There you try to sit everything out because you know very well, the next scandal two weeks later covers everything again anyway. But what has happened here in the past few weeks has nothing to do with money destruction, with post-chakers, with other friend economies or with any tax billions that are going anywhere. Federal Minister Stöger! In recent weeks, seven people have died in Europe, five of them in Austria – and you have not informed the public about it. Mr Federal Minister, I have the impression that this cheese scandal is completely infested with you. We can fully document today that at the latest on 20 July. Years of this year have known that this cheese is the contaminants. It is also confirmed by the spokesman of the AGES that you will be on 20 June. January was informed and that the relationship between the consumption of a cheese and the disease affecting so many people and, above all, the death toll is definitive. And what happened then, Mr. Federal Minister, in fact, was nothing. You haven't been informed by the public in any way! [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] But obviously, the Carinthian Health Councillor Kaiser must have been very well informed by you, for he did on 16 May. February in a press release said that everything had been examined in Carinthia two weeks ago and that cheese was no longer on the shelves in Carinthia. [[Abg. Strache: Because Carinthia is working!]] Now I ask you, Minister of State: Why can a Kärntner Landesrat know if you have not yet been informed at that time? [[Abg. Strache: Because Carinthia is working! That's the difference!]] How does the Kärntner Landesrat know, who is also your party colleague? And why, if the Carinthian Council knew it, didn't you know? Why didn't he tell you? Or have you just not told the others? – Something is wrong here, and here your statements are contradictory, Minister of State. And that's what we blame you. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] What has happened here is an informational scandal, and you have to answer it, Minister! Now you can't talk out and say you didn't know. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the Federal Minister Stöger, pointing towards his colleagues on the government bank) don't put too close! He won't last long!]] It is very bad if you also send out your officials, Mr Herzog, who then stands down and says he warns the Austrians against eating a raw milk cheese. – Mr Federal Minister, this quargel was not a raw milk cheese! That's a completely different product. They have not yet found clear words to warn people. And I'm telling you, You do not know in how many refrigerators the Austrians of this quargel after the 23rd century. It's still in place in January. And quite honestly: People look very differently in the fridge and check more precisely whether they have anything of this product at home, if they know that it can be fatal than if there is any recovery action of any company that, by the way, – and this is the problem with it – has been carried out by a group, where perhaps a hangout on the business was appropriate with the information: This cheese you can bring back, you get your money back for it. – Not every customer in Austria goes to the same business every day, and not every customer in Austria has ever experienced anything about this recovery operation. As Minister of Health, you are obliged to pay attention to the health of people, and you have disregarded this duty! Mr. Federal Minister, in fact you have highly qualified people at the AGES who have discovered this. In this context, one must really congratulate the people at the AGES who have discovered this in microfeiner work. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] But they are actually destroying this highly qualified work! Federal Minister Stöger, the minimum you have to be accused of now is that you are completely overwhelmed in your ministry. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't want any more!]] That's the minimum you have to blame. [[Call at BZÖ: He doesn't want to!]] However, the management of the health resort is already connected with a huge responsibility. This is one of the most important resorts – that is responsible for life, for human health. There you can't work with a bird-strout policy and put your head in the sand once there's a little trouble. If we didn't keep you from being overwhelmed, we'd have to spin it on. Then I'd have to say you've had dejected reasons. But I don't want to blame you at all. Mr Stöger, I would advise you: Step back for yourself! Stay as quiet as you have been in recent months, and step back! [[Abg. Grosz: Very quiet! Just go!]] Otherwise, Mr Federal Minister, we will support this motion for a reluctance.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20071	Mr Walser has now come to speak. I'll set the clock to seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20092	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the government! High house! Mr Klubobmann Bucher, you make it easy for the government to steal from responsibility. They really link herb and rubble themes. They address topics that are really enlightened – I am thinking of this tragic case of the food-related dead – but that is combined with all the other issues. This is, of course, going in the right direction, because what needs to be found at the moment is a standstill in the government; Don't stop in the sense of how it was often read in the media in the last few days and weeks and unfortunately has also been transported by the right parties over and over again, so because of alleged laziness, because of travel or other – this is really also one of the tasks of the government! . but, because of the inability to deal with the problems, a standstill is still because the necessary reforms cannot really be addressed. If you look at it climatically, then you have to realize that this house is once again drawing such a hint of Gusenbauer-Molter, a hint of an epoch that unfortunately hurts our country in the present, because we have really not addressed the specific problems – and on some of them I want to go into some of them briefly. This crisis offers tremendous opportunities: for example, the opportunity that has been used in Germany as an energy transition, an opportunity to use this crisis as a job engine, to make our country a pioneer, just as Germany has managed, for example, to achieve photovoltaics or wind energy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] You don't have to look at Germany at all. Rudi Anschober in Upper Austria has proposed: 16 000 jobs, 16 000 highly qualified jobs. [[Abg. New builder: Where? Where are they? She doesn't know anyone, these jobs!]] – This is green manuscript when greens rule! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The economy has created it, but not the Rudi!]] Just a few numbers of how to deal with the future of our country: The photovoltaic boom is the global economic growth engine. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Mitterlehner.]] 117 percent increase last year, in the last year there were similar figures. And what do we have in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] – Although we have created several new jobs in the years until 2006, up to 100 plants per year, since then? – I picked it out: In 2007 only ten more plants, in 2008 seven and last year no new plant. That is your economic policy, that is your answer to this crisis, and there would be a real need for us to move in a new direction! The Wifo confirms these figures: The Wifo has carried out an analysis of the OECD's economic packages – and I would like to stress – and it has concluded that on average 38 percent of investments were those that can be described as so-called future investments. Now we are accustomed to Austria being not a leader – I am unfortunately especially used to it from the education sector – but at least on average we should be. But we are not in this area at Weitem: Austria has just reached 29 percent. – These are the real problems, and we should talk about them here objectively! Then the problem of poverty, to which nobody – at least not this government – really is devoted with the necessary attention in this country. There are over 1 million vulnerable people in Austria, manifestly poor is nearly half a million people. – There is an urgent need for action, and we need to get away from these figures! “Lohn dumping, precarious employment conditions, people who need two or three jobs and cannot even live on them. That's unworthy. We don’t want that.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, the quote should appear familiar to you: It's from you. You said that two months ago, and we can only agree. But what are you doing about it? – Unfortunately, we lack the concrete measures. We want to know who is paying for this crisis, we want to know how we get out of it – and after all, it was rare to hear today that we might come to a budget in good time, that you might be willing to comply with the budget timetable. We're excited about it! In conclusion, there is another issue that is not the subject of the future, namely education. What you have reaped here with your measures is uprising: The uprising of kindergarten teachers, the uprising of students and also of the teaching staff at the universities and also the early uprising at the schools in this country. This is the response of the population to your inactivity, the answer to the following facts and the following figures: Although the initial study rate in Austria has increased by 13 percent since 1995, we are also far behind the OECD section. There it is – also on average again – 19 percent. We must finally get away from a system of education in which education is inherited, where there is a need for the educational budget of pupils, and we must come to a system in which, as far as possible, all children have the same opportunities, children in which they learn in school, in which the idea of performance is in the foreground, but also the social competence of children, in which there is no false idea of eliteism: a school, as you theoretically imagine it, but of which we do not hear anything else and concerning which we do not know anything about measures that go in the right direction. One word, Mr Bundeskanzler, to the New Secondary School mentioned by you: The New Middle School is not even a step in the right direction, as the President of the Chamber of Commerce has formulated, and I can only agree with it. Although there have been improvements in the primary school, that is undisputed, what we urgently need in this area, namely energetic steps towards a common school, has not been achieved with the New Secondary School. And, of course, it's clear where the guilty one is to be made up, these are the blockers in the ÖAAB, and they have names: Mr Amon, you have to mention earlier, as President Neugebauer is to be called, but there is, of course, also Vice-Chanceller Pröll, who is preventing these necessary reforms. Let us therefore turn to these topics of the future of Austria! Let us take these topics seriously and do not do a theatre here and discuss herb and beet – important topics that are then hardly really taken seriously by everyone. We must address these problems urgently, otherwise Austria will fall back further in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20190	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20211	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! My colleagues on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that I have the opportunity to report to Parliament through the BZO's motion for a distrust, as was the case with the Listeria outbreak. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you could have done that without any mistrust!]] Since last week, the BZÖ has been trying to construct a “listeria scandal” in the choir with the FPÖ. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's not there?- Oh, my God!]] They misuse pitiful deaths for a shabby political hack – for a shabby political hack! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Get back a little bit! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now it's enough! It's enough now, Minister! That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] This house didn't deserve it! They represent the excellent domestic system of food control as if it had failed, while the very opposite is the case. [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Krainer: How to call into the forest...!]] – Listen, then understand! [[Abg. May. Stadler:... should be ashamed! Seven dead...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Oberhauser: (in the direction of BZÖ)... you should be moderate!]] The opposite is the case! The only scandal is that in recent days and weeks you have spread falsehoods via press releases and press conferences. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is really a..., the Minister! Get him down!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Listeria outbreak has been cleared. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Dead, Minister!]] I say it again – listen to me, honourable Member; listen to me, then you understand: [[Abg. May. Stadler: You should listen, Minister!]] [[further calls to the BZÖ]] The Listeria outbreak has been clarified, the company concerned has been blocked relatively quickly and the food has been removed from the market. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The accusing Member of the Government Bank!]] The public was warned as soon as it was clear what kind of food could be associated with the Listeria outbreak. I can say quite clearly and clearly that this rarely takes place in this short time: We needed less than three months to do this – all on the basis of existing laws. It was immediately established whether such products were brought to other countries. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It would have been a mistake if you were...!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Worst ministers of all time!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Silhavy:... this is incredible!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I recall that Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia were also affected, and these countries were warned by the Austrian Rapid Warning System. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This minister is a cutback! A meat-become a preparation!]] At the time, the authorities in Germany were still far away from a clarification of what food could actually have caused these infections. [[Abg. Bucher: What was that time?]] [[More calls at BZÖ:When?]] In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, there are no reports of disease. You see, the Austrian monitoring system runs significantly better than in the neighbouring countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Just now – listen! – play the BZÖ and the FPÖ as a detector and consumer protection: May I remind you that in 2002, there were most salmonella deaths and diseases in the last 15 years in Austria? [[Abg. Bookbooker: You should answer our questions, but not in history...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] Ten people died at the time, almost 7,500 were ill. That was under Prime Minister, then FPÖ, then BZÖ – where he is today, I don't know. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] An efficient outbreak or warning to the public of one or more particular foods did not take place at the time. [[Call the BZÖ: Well, of course!]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] The then Prime Minister and his State Secretary Waneck have no time – at no time! – inform the public about these deaths. One question, Mr Grosz: Skill You remember who was his press speaker back then? [[Complementary and He-Rufe at SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, due to appropriate measures and increased monitoring, salmonella could be severely reduced. The number of patients has fallen to one third of the 2002 value: In 2009 we had 2 500 sufferers; Salmonella deaths are no longer reported. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a cynical argument: Because there are no more salmonellas, we need...!]] – To speak of a “chronology of failure and obscurity” testifies to ignorance of the system of food control in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're always ratting in and not knowing!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I regret the death of five people to the lowest. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you write this on a note?]] My compassion belongs to the survivors. I say quite clearly: If people die because they have eaten food that contains harmful bacteria, then this is a commission for the Minister of Health, and I, together with the food authorities, insist with the monitoring authorities that we also need a good, functioning system. For two years, food infections have fallen significantly, by almost 20 percent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The dead rose by 100 percent!]] In the years up to 2008, there were still well over 10,000 food-related diseases per year. In 2009, it was around 8 400, with the vast majority still due to salmonella infections, which are mostly only expressed as a breakthrough and rarely lead to diseases or death. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Everything “best”!]] Unfortunately, this is not the case with Listeriosis: Here the mortality is remarkably higher. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] [[Call BZÖ: Harmless!]] Very recent on the clear listriosis outbreak: I would like to thank especially and in all forms the employees of the AGES. The head of the National Listeria Reference Laboratory at the AGES is due to the rapid investigation of the outbreak. Without this commitment, we probably do not know anything about the link between Listerius disease and Hartberg cheese. When the product and operation were established, the placing on the market of the products was immediately prohibited. The operation concerned in the Styria is still closed. There is currently a sample production under the supervision of the University of Veterinary Medicine. The aim is to find out where the cause of these contaminations remains unclear. Products from this holding are not currently being placed on the market. A clarification, where the cause of the contamination lies, is particularly interesting, because there seems to be no even contamination either. In the case of the products themselves, they are likely to have had different contaminants. I remember that last year the company produced 5 million pieces of the quargel, 21 cases of illness have occurred, and unfortunately, as we know since yesterday, there were five deaths: four in 2009 and another in 2010. Yesterday, this death case was added: It is a 57-year-old man from Lower Austria. [[Abg. Bucher: Everyone knows that...!]] ==References====External links== January one; the infection must therefore still have occurred in December or early January. [[Abg. Bucher: 48 hours you need to...!]] Unfortunately, we don't have a clue when and how often the deceased quargel used, but he wasn't in a good general state and had liver problems. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well then!]] ==References== The last isolat was transmitted to the AGES in February. Since then, in other words, for more than two weeks, there have been no more new diseases. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the recall of the company's products and their warning have been used. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I hold: All requirements of EU food law and of Austrian food law are and have been complied with. I and my employees in the food supervision field must be rejected decisively. We have ensured that the potentially dangerous products are from the market, that they can no longer be placed on the market and that the causes will be examined and these will be clarified. The Federal Ministry of Health and the supervisory authorities of the countries work efficiently in the background, do not push themselves in the foreground and ensure that the food that is on the market is also safe. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. May. Stadler]] Mr Grosz, lead the Styrian municipal election campaign where he belongs, namely in Styria, and do not abuse the National Council stage in order to insure Austrian consumers! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Even you wrote that down?- Oh, my God!]] I emphasize: The food authorities and the AGES have worked well, the Austrians can continue to rely on the high standard of food controls.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20717	Mr Grosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions: first, the part to be corrected, then the correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20741	Madam President. The Federal Minister for Health has read in his speech that there would have been no food collection and no food warnings under the Federal Minister in 2002. [[Abg. Silhavy: He didn't say that!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I'm correcting: Rather, it is true that in the context of the crisis management BSE, the foot-and-mouth disease, the pig mast scandal, chloramphenicol in Shrimps, and in pesticides-polluted tomatoes and strawberries, there has been complete control, warning and food collection. In 2002 and in the years that followed, there were the highest number of food controls and withdrawals and a complete review of food safety, including with regard to the implementation of Genmais et cetera, as I can remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20798	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. I'll set the clock up to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e20819	Ladies and gentlemen! We have now really heard a unique idea of a Federal Minister. Mr Federal Minister, if there were no reasons for a resignation, then your “presence” here would be a unique reason for an immediate resignation! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bucher: The Last Political Cuckoos!]] Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, I do not have to beat a municipal election campaign, but I am really outraged – really outraged! – about this idea you brought here. There is no reason at all for any cynical hustle and bustle in your ranks. [[towards SPÖ]] They would have to be ashamed: ashamed of this talk and also ashamed of the speech by Klubobmann Cap, who has been bringing the same performance for 30 years, but today has taken part in the completely wrong pot and has not mentioned with any single word this scandal, which Mr Grosz has revealed. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Call at BZÖ:For 40 years!]] [[Abg. Bucher: For 27 years!]] [[Abg. May. Josef Auer: Shame for your Members!]] No, we do not have to be ashamed if we ask a Federal Minister here, what he says about him – at least his ministry – and Mr Grosz has demonstrated that he has been informed about this food scandal for weeks and months. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And over the dead!]] It's not about any little things. I tell you, people have been in prison for months and years at the wine scandal! This has been discussed worldwide, as there have been political consequences and measures to prevent such a thing from happening! [[Abg. Booker: No dead man!]] Now there are seven dead to complain about, and the Federal Minister is here and reads insults from members of the opposition. It's a horrendous thing! A real immeasurable thing that we have to experience such a thing here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Grosz has clearly told you that your ministry has been informed about this scandal for weeks and months, and you are putting yourself in the public and saying that you have just learned about it. Either you, Mr Federal Minister, have really not known anything, then you are ignorant and incapable – or you have known it, then you are dishonest. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Not capable!]] All together is more than one reason for you to relinquish your office immediately! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you still say here that we should be glad that such infections rarely lead to death and that in the last death it was someone who was already old and in a bad general state, then I must ask you: Yeah, should we still be happy about that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's incredible! That's a joke!]] [[Abg. Grosz: It's a despicable human being!]] Mr. Federal Minister, have you read what has been written to you in advance? That's really awesome! Now you're not saying we should be ashamed. Do you still feel comfortable with such a health minister, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties? So, if a mistrust request has its right – a ministerial contribution would be the right one in this case – then it is this mistrust request from us, ladies and gentlemen, because that is really a monsterity! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now all of you, Chancellor of the Federal Republic, are laughing! At the beginning, you celebrated a party on top of the government bank, made fun of this urgent request. You too, Mr Bundeskanzler, have a joint responsibility if you do not ensure that there are proper conditions here at last. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mr Klubobmann's head! “Crowd and Beet” you mentioned this urgent request. In reality, it is a cross-section of your inactivity. The outstanding thing in the negative sense is your health minister, who appears somewhere else, and when he appears again, then with a scandal. We've kept this to you before. Unfortunately, we had to make so many points in our urgent procedure. We would like to focus on a few points that we are intensively discussing where we think there is a need for action. But unfortunately there is a wide field where there is a need for action. But you're not doing anything! Member of the Head, Mr Bundeskanzler: Is it “crew and beet” when we worry about the wrong approach to dealing with the economic crisis? Is it “crew and beet” if we say that the banking tax, which would only again pay consumers, is the wrong way for banks to buy out measures at the end of speculation? – That’s what we fear: that the banks have made their contribution, and that we will not discuss any more about arrangements so that this year’s market, this casino thinking on the stock exchanges and in the banks at last ends. Is the “crew and beet” where you say it is an opposition that doesn’t come in any more? Is it “crew and beet” when we say that we want the need for action in the budget to be addressed not on the revenue side via tax increases, but on the expenditure side via a real administrative reform? - You seem to have cancelled them again. The “Austrian talk” has been cancelled. We do not know anything about new initiatives in this area, although they are so important and necessary. The President of the Court of Auditors has predicted impressively that there would be up to €3 billion in savings potential. Is it really "crew and beet" if we want to remind and discuss this, ladies and gentlemen? Is it “crouts and beetroots” when we worry about safety and criticize that you work with placebos, such as in the use of assistance? – The Minister of Defence says that this raises the subjective sense of security. Yes, of course, but why only in Burgenland? That's where we need soldiers all over Austria! If soldiers walk there without a mandate and without power, then the subjective sense of security of the population will be increased. Millions are spent for this – without any real benefit! These are the things we want to discuss, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Bundeskanzler, we want the existing resources to be used at least efficiently and properly, regardless of whether they are sufficient or not. For example, in the field of safety. These are the things we want to discuss with you about! If you believe that our borders are not sufficiently protected, I can say: Yes, we can discuss this! Then we set up a proper border guard force from the area of the police and from the areas of the federal army and equip them with executive powers! Yes, we can discuss that. The callers at the SPÖ are now suddenly silent. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, that you don't mind. But implementing this idea would be really interesting. Or: Is it “crouts and beetroots” when we say what concepts we need to adopt in the pension system so that the confidence of young people in the state welfare that has been lost is regained? Is this all “crew and beet”, what you can make fun of and where, once an opposition party has the opportunity to make a urgent request in a few months, one goes over it and says: Well, what you guys brought back there?- Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, this alone shows how little serious you are not only taking Parliament, but in total your task as the Federal Government, namely at a difficult time, to work together with us here in Parliament on solving the problems. You can make mistakes here and there, you can take the wrong path, you have to correct it, but you don't have to do anything because you can't agree on anything, that's negligent – negligent, if not intentional! A real crime of the future of this country! The Minister of Health has shown us what consequences such an inactivity can have.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21028	Mrs Oberhauser is now speaking. I'll set the clock to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21049	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you have agreed on nothing and written a lot, because the urgent request results in how we can all read from this text, because it is obvious that in the BZÖ club one could not agree on who should ask the questions. Then: You asked the questions to the Federal Chancellor, and Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, should not have answered them. That is to say, we are here today praying that we cannot agree on whether we are leading Styrian elections at the expense of a minister with extremely cumbersome and extremely false arguments or whether we are putting this mixed set of questions to the Federal Chancellor. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Scheibner and Mr Grosz.]] Once you reach the BZÖ Club, ask yourself, and then torture us with this mixed set of urgent inquiry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the BZÖ.]] I quote from the mixed sentence Her urgent question: “... economic packages do not deserve their name. ” They say companies don't invest. – Yes, we are not surprised because the entrepreneurs do not, of course, invest if they do not know when the economy will start and what the order situation will be in the next few years. But we know very well that investment in the public sector – and they are also taking place – is exactly what makes sense and purpose of these economic packages: You're securing jobs! Let us look at, for example, the 700 million economic package from the area of the Federal Minister for Railways Bures! – 60 individual projects: Railways, construction of railways, safety of railway crossings, thermal renovations. In order to get well over the winter, all these construction projects have been carried out over the winter so that people do not get into unemployment. These are our economic packages! And that is the way in which economic packages work. Second quote from your urgent inquiry: The lack of labour market policy leaves unemployed. We have put two labour market packages, initiated by Mr Hundstorfer, which have brought us to the second best position in the European comparison with regard to the unemployment rate. They say we have an increase in youth unemployment! – True is: We have a stable decline in unemployment among the 15-19 years of age. There is the “Action Future Youth. ” In 2009, 18 200 young people were assigned a job. A course offer was made for 22 500 young people. It goes on just as well in January 2010. We have 1,370 young people who have got a job, and we have 1,905 in a course. The Federal Government has provided a job guarantee for young people, and we currently have 8 900 young people in over-company teaching workshops. We still have 3 300 free places. That is, the claim that this federal government is abandoning the unemployed is clearly wrong, is populist and does not correspond to the facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Grosz, because the urgent question also says that young people with special needs are not taken care of: He should look around in the Styria, as there is the model “production schools”. Four sites were opened in Styria this year, where young people with special difficulties are to be led from school to training or to a workplace. There are 19 locations planned throughout Austria with a total of 750 seats. This Federal Government, with the two labour market packages, the training guarantee, the “Action 10 000” for long-term unemployed and the qualification measures to take account of the changing labour market, has taken twice as much money for active labour market policies as in the previous year. In other words, in view of the fact that the Federal Government or the Federal Chancellor claim that nothing would be done for the unemployed, it is a smooth premise, which does not correspond to the facts. I quote from the urgent: “The Austrian health system can no longer be financed in its current form.” On the previous points, the Court of Auditors was praised as a serious source. Therefore: Read the Court of Auditors' report, then you know that the Court of Auditors has also clearly stated that the burden of the local health telephone in the years 2000 to 2006 has led to the fact that they stand today as they stand! [[President Neugebauer shall take over the chairmanship.]] For the first time, this Federal Government has taken over tax money – 100 million – for the health insurance companies. This federal government has relieved patients with a prescription fee cover. Black/Blue has been burdened – Red/Black defies! Now to the Listeria case: All deaths, including the death toll that has become official today, have occurred before it was clear what the cause of this Listeria infection is. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Wrong!]] To blame a minister here is obnoxious and populist. They say we negate deaths – that's not true! But you use the death of people to make cheap currency policy here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen from BZÖ! I think it needs it. You can't be surprised: We are fully behind our Minister of Health and also fully behind our Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Scheibner: I think so!]] And the treatment of such “mixed-rate requests” is pure waste of time.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21163	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21185	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads this urgent question of the BZÖ exactly, it should be noted, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, that this is not a very serious matter, and I would also like to tell you why. They begin by accusing you of having 61 evaluations, 16 working groups, commissions, 14 concepts, quality reports et cetera, according to the Government Convention. For me, this does not sound negative, but rather a lot of work, which is basically nothing bad if a federal government does a lot of work. On our own it will be, Mr Klubobmann Bucher, if you criticize that in 82 cases – you have apparently spent a lot of time counting things through – there is a budget reserve. They criticise this in order to further accuse a few sentences that the budget for the federal government, for the countries and for the municipalities is expected to run out of the row. I think, Mr Bucher, you have to consider what you really want: Do you want a federal government to deal seriously with the budget – and therefore there is also a budget reserve in different areas – or do you want a federal government to throw the money out to the window? You have to decide what you want! Then write in your urgent request: “... unemployment and poverty are financed and managed, but not fought. ” I would like to oppose this because if more money is taken into account to combat unemployment in a crisis situation, then not unemployment will be financed, but people will be helped in a difficult situation. I would like to tell you this clearly. Mr Bucher, I do not know if you have really read the urgent question. I would also like to find a few words in connection with the attacked Federal Minister Stöger. Under point 9 – I quote literally from your urgent request – you can read: “The Minister of Health lets deadly cheeses resold for half a year without hindrance. Instead of implementing a health reform that deserves the name, only financial holes are stopped.” Apart from the fact that this sentence probably does not meet all the grammatical requirements, I ask you: What do you want with the sentence: The Minister of Health lets deadly cheese resell for half a year, rather than making a health reform!, express it? – Either They want to imply that, as it were, he is knowingly letting this cheese sell – this is a very tough accusation, Mr. Bucher – but “instead of making a health reform”, that can’t be serious! [[Abg. Head: Just like the whole application!]] [[Abg. Bucher: (in the direction of Abg. Head) That's a request and not a request!]] I then came to the issue of education in the context of your question. And what do you write about it? – I quote: “Land of poor education policy – home, you stupid sons.” First of all, you are insulting all the children and young people of our country because you all call them stupid. And the second is that “sons” are more likely to come out of the Carinthian dictionary than what you seem to be planning in education policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Bucher: If we are not allowed to hold any more meetings, you will have to shut down Parliament! You're a little jokeball!]] I have looked very closely at your urgent needs, Mr. Bucher, and there is something you suggest to be from PISA and PIRLS. But they don't suggest where the quote really is. I quote from your question: “Austrian students compared to medium-sized – PIRLS 2006 study shows very similar results to PISA. Austria has 16 % risk students similar to Taiwan.’ I thought I had to look at that, because I remember it differently, not as you said, that the Austrian students are under-average. They're average, we're not enough, but at least they're not below average. But Taiwan, Mr Bucher, is somewhere else. I quote literally from the 2006 PISA study, which is first of all about the scientific competences. That's what it says: In addition, Figure 3 shows that in addition to OECD countries Finland, Canada and Japan, the partner countries Hong Kong, Taiwan and Estonia also achieve particularly high performance. And it says even more clearly in mathematics: In addition, Figure 37 shows that the partner countries Taiwan and Hong Kong achieve similar results to Finland and Korea. So this is not comparable to what you have tried to present in your request. I therefore believe that these urgents, as you have designed them, are indeed a herb-and-rubber-driving. In the way you put it up, you can't make a serious policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21270	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21291	Mr President. Valuable members of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! I am really positively surprised at what we have heard from the government bank. The Federal Chancellor said he worked so well as Vienna City Councillor, and immediately received applause from SPÖ. That's probably why we need the housing sheriffs now. True is: We have 400 000 unemployed, and there is nothing to laugh about. This is the highest number since 1945. That is, it seems that all the measures do not take place, and new measures do not exist. To the economy and the economic programmes, we must say: The AWS has not yet issued a bank licence after several years, despite the pressing WKO, so there is a credit terminal, which is now also determined by the ÖVP. However, in your opinion, everything is good and dazzling and there are no problems, as you said in your answer to the BZÖ's requests. But let us now come to a subject that has moved the population very much in recent times, namely to this listria case. This is not a new issue, because, among other things, the child of a Member of Parliament who is among us today died in 1986, meaning that this issue is known that it is not new. And it's mainly known in the industry. Mr Federal Minister, you know exactly, even if it is – freely according to Fichtenbauer – the highest and most honest duty of the opposition to criticise, we will then criticize you if it is necessary. If you do good work, we praise her, you know that from the field of genetic engineering. But that not everything you said before corresponds to the truth is a fact. They said a farm was blocked and the food was removed from the market. That's right! But you also said that the population was informed. – From you, Federal Minister, from your cabinet, your officials have been in between 21. January 16th and January 16th. He doesn't know anyone! That means you said the untruth here today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are not only millions of advertisements and other contacts in the newspapers from your resort, but also from the other resorts, there has been no single deployment of your department on this subject. They obviously use the means of the health budget for their own consecrations. Let us, however, come to the other institutions which have not only boasted. Let us perhaps start with the other national councils responsible for consumer protection. The Red Emperor said first that he controlled anyway, and then he said: No, it hasn't been controlled. How does it look in Upper Austria with Mr. Anschober? Has he controlled, yes or no? We don't know, but he's already dealing with the solar panels again. Another great green leader, Mr. Floss – Managing Director of the VKI – has hit the top at all. He says in an interview with the ORF: The citizens need to do nothing but cut the bark off the cheese anyway. If this is the information policy of the VKI, then this institution can also lock up again, because if already Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer has to forbid that the VKI informs the population, then it is already quite late. [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Other organizations such as the VKI, for example the organization foodwatch, which truly organise the information, have done so in such a way that the Lidl chain in Germany really had to react immediately, so much so that in Austria, for example, they also had to advertise in the “Press” and the “Kronen Zeitung”, for example, in order to inform them that only the German Lidl branches are affected, the Austrians are not. At that time, there was still no official information outside, neither from the VKI nor from the Federal Ministry. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Let's go to the media now. It's probably not one of the ladies and gentlemen' editors here now who sit with the Heurigen and write their contributions for tonight's evening. But it would not be bad if they were really informed and if they were to inform people above all. There is Mr. Atha. Thank God he is gone now because his journalistic quality was lower than the Greek financial system. They really deal with everything and everyone, they're dealing with issues of light and border issues: the internal I, the gay rate, and whether migrants should come to the police. But that in this case, which is dangerous to health and where there are dead people, the newspapers would write about it on their own, you can't experience that. This is also a scandal, a media scandal! [[In the case of the FPÖ and the members of the BZÖ.]] Clearly, it takes German newspapers to get the Austrian newspapers on top of what is being played in this system. Then the Austrian newspapers write down and boast that they are so good. That's a real scandal. If you ask what was actually there, the government says: Well, we had to react a little bit, but still farming and company-saving. I assume that this is the reason why the ÖVP is still reviewing this SPÖ system and probably is not involved in this mistrust request. I say now that the motive of the ÖVP may be good. [[Call the ÖVP: Explain this now! What do you want to say? “Farming”!]] The Austrian farmers are not affected by this, it was, as has been said, Dutch milk from which German pot became, and that is just saying that our quality seal and quality seal system is a embarrassing. But They probably wanted to save the farmers, and now they are the sufferers if nothing happens. Why are they the sufferers? - Because people don't buy pots, no quargels and nothing more. That's the point. [[Call the ÖVP: You have no idea!]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's not business-friendly either, because if you know that in Upper Austria a trade chain has already taken out the products of this Styrian company in the autumn – they know the company, because they know both the producers and the trade chain that it has taken out – and that this Styrian company has constantly delivered corrupted products to the Upper Austrian dealer, who has displayed molds and lists, and this has been known because it has examined the chain itself, then you can only conclude from it what there are other problems in this system and in this Federal Government. The point is: Consumers have lost confidence, consumers have paid for it, there have been deaths, and there is no one in this government willing to stand up for it. Even if no member of the government is personally accused that it has made mistakes itself, but their cabinet, Mr. Stöger, Federal Minister, is just as attached to it, and you are responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21392	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21414	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! I welcome the last of the spectators too! High house! It has now been discussed and addressed very widely and in many ways in the discussion and also in the urgent question of the failure or failure of the Federal Government. However, I am particularly lacking in a subject area, and I am surprised that this issue of an opposition party does not occur either, namely the whole area of the climate. [[Abg. Bucher: herb and beet...! We wanted to leave you a little bit!]] He has noticed us, because the failure is really very blasphemous. [[Call to the ÖVP: What have you done now?]] Yes, we are the only ones who have noticed this, and we are also the only ones who have been addressing it for years. Nevertheless, nothing continues to happen. I think the failure is quite clear, the climate balance is terrifying. Still, our goal for Kyoto is to save minus 13 percent CO2, we remain at plus 11 percent. It's all right. Before the Copenhagen climate conference, it has become known that we are the final light throughout Europe – nothing else is happening. We know that we have to buy fines at billions – and nothing else is going on. The Federal Government is acting in the same way as before Copenhagen: Nothing happens. There are no approaches to solutions, and I think that is really more than grossly negligent. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bucher.]] There are enough examples to show this lack of time: the Climate Change Act, which has been announced and promised for years, but it is not heard anything but disputes between the federal government and countries. We have made a proposal on how to escape it. This proposal has been postponed. It is the same with the energy strategy, which should say how Austrian energy policy is to continue. There too we have been comforted for years. We have made a proposal, but it has also been postponed. My colleague has already referred to the eco electricity law on how the eco-sector in Austria has developed: The expansion has gone down, there is an expansion stop. Since this year, we have again had an eco electricity law, but that is still anything but an eco electricity promotion law. Heuer will be able to build a few plants, but that was it. An expansion is not really possible in the eco electricity sector even this year. We have also made a request, a proposal which has also been postponed. With all these proposals, which we have made in the field of climate, energy and the environment alone, we would have been able to fill tomorrow's plenary session safely. So there is no action by the Federal Government to bring real momentum into the matter. On the contrary, climate action is being committed if I think only of how many billions are invested in motorway infrastructures, in giant power plants and pipelines, and there you already wonder: Why is that? I have been at many events during the last weeks and months, where energy and energy independence have been discussed, and the people in Austria have a very great interest in becoming energy independent and also in having the most sustainable energy in the future. People get really angry when you say it's actually going, and they see it doesn't happen anyway. One reason why it doesn't happen is to refresh the fossil economy with politics, and for that we have another recent example: Former Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has recently worked with the energy group RWE. This is a nuclear power group, and it is also in the consortium for the “Nabucco” pipeline. It then becomes clear why there is nothing going on in Austria in terms of renewable energy as far as energy change is concerned. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl.]] This is only about the preservation of power, and you are completely exploring the opportunities contained in the field of renewable energy contained in climate protection. They feel it is up to people to continue to be dependent on oil and gas and to have to pay expensive oil prices. I think that's irresponsible. They do not recognise the chance that people in the energy supply can be independent, that they can afford energy and mobility in the long term. They also completely ignore the opportunities that exist in the labour market. Thousands of jobs could be created if you were finally to invest in the energy transition and in climate protection, not only in your powers, but also in the billions you are now in these lobbys. These points seem to be only with us Greens. Unfortunately, especially the ÖVP has shown little interest. The first step to do the right thing is finally to install an independent, independent and committed environmental ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21480	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21501	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The picture that the government is giving here today is already a remarkable one: a German chancellor who turns down questions from Members and then fails to answer them. [[Abg. Booker: He has already resigned!]] I tell you, Federal Chancellor, even if you do not like the questions – and that only speaks for the quality of the questions – you have the obligation to answer them and not comment. This is the task you have here in the House. But if a so-called Minister of Health comes here and in a mixture of superiority, arrogance and now life-threatening incompetence, then this is really killing the barrel. They did not warn people in good time about the dangers there are. You looked away, yes, you have no idea at all, and that's why seven dead are suing today. Seven dead are suing you today, your system, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Grosz has brought you in an impressive way – you probably didn't think we had that, but he has – with the internal crisis diary, Minister. He has brought you – quite penable, step by step – that you either knew it at an early stage or simply pushed it to the side and put unnecessary people in danger. That is why you should withdraw, Minister, and that is why the request for distrust is fully justified. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... preped!]] But the government lives in this red-black chaos of luxury – at 400 000 unemployed, Mr Jarolim, with the highest tax burden, with the highest crime, with the lowest income, but with the highest poverty we have in this country. They put their hands in the lap and develop any dubious taxes, but otherwise make She's nothing. You don't bring government documents to Parliament, you move the budget to the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. You do not even have the opportunity to hold a Council of Ministers properly, because half of the government is gone – although none of them notice it. [[Abg. Bookbooker: A travel agency is this!]] Instead of ruling, set up a travel agency at Ballhausplatz, with address Ballhausplatz 1, with frequent flyer bonus for Pröll, Fekter and Darabos. - Congratulations! This is the work, Mr Klubobmann, that this government is doing?- Oh, my God! To drive around in world history?- Oh, my God! Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, has traveled from Mauritius over the last few weeks to the United States until last India, where he has walked around with a ridiculous turban and has even taken off his shoes to show the world that he is simply footy, Mr. Finanzminister from Austria. Is that the policy you're delivering here? No, I don't think so. It is, in fact, a witness of poverty. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: Should I bring you a travel list of your former ministers?]] I'll tell you something. The only place that this government has not yet visited is the desert where the voters will send you after the next election. This place you will then visit after the choice, on it you can rely. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Head: You better do this, Peter!]] You move a budget, you put your hands in the lap. Only two budget items are already fixed, two: One is travel, fees and buffets for the government. That's fixed, you need a budget because these are ongoing costs. The second budget is the tax increases that you have already unpacked – from VAT on mineral oil tax until now to bank tax, which is not a bank tax, but a bank customer tax, because it hits customers. You burden people, that's your program. That's why you also put your hands in the lap, because you hardly have time to do anything else because of the many trips. That's where the Minister of the Interior travels to Vancouver. What's the Minister of the Interior in Vancouver doing at a sporting event? If at least she had gone to study the Green Card model in Canada, which is reasonable and we have been demanding from BZÖ for a long time! That would have happened. But no, she's driving because she's got to shake my hands, too. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She's coming back, unfortunately, that's the problem!]] Only, a problem still has this government: As long as the two ministers were there, this aura of failure even colored on the athletes, and we did not make medals. Hardly were the two ministers gone, there was gold at once for Austria. I congratulate the athletes in Vancouver. Hardly were these unsuccessful people gone, there have been the successes. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you something. Do you know what's really serious? That you still do nothing against crime in this country. Now I am also addressing the Minister for Justice. Minister of Justice, I appeal again – and I will do so in every speech as long as no change has occurred: Finally, stop your predecessor's socialist displeasure, with this insane release package! We have already discussed this in the Committee on Justice, and now the “Kronen Zeitung” has written: How foreign murderers get free at an early stage – penalty for serious criminals. Mrs. Minister, mafia's contract killers are there, there are serious sexual offenders in there, child abusers who are released from our prisons early on under the title "Detention Package" when they say: I'll go back to my home country and do nothing more, dear Justice, then you'll get rid of me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] They'll come back, of course, they won't stay there! 11 000 offenders were released early last year. But we've got a stand of 8,100 in the prisons. If you were very cynical now, Mrs. Minister, you could say to the criminals today: You can do whatever you want, for everyone who is being arrested here will be released in advance. You have nothing to fear at all – provided that you are caught at all because the education rate is so low. This is a shame to security policy in this country. That is why we will request in this House that this detention package will finally be suspended and that the perpetrators will also have to lay down their punishment – until the last day.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21658	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21695	Mr President. I always find this exciting when convicted criminals talk about crime here. I also find it particularly exciting when he speaks about the fact that ministers are at sporting events, where we all know that, if we have plenary sessions here, the honourable Member Westenthaler notices that he is going to police in the stadium. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ursula Haubner:... Minister of Defense!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] So it is always very interesting to talk to him. He has again shown that he lacks a perfect one, namely respect for people, but he also has no understanding at all of the fact that an Austrian minister who visits a sanctuary abroad is holy to the people who live there, as a sign of respect for men, takes off his shoes. The fact that you don't understand this may be linked to the fact that you just don't have respect for other people. That's what you see in your policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now to your urgent request, it has already been said a lot about it. Let's take a look at what this government did and compare it with what you did when you were in the government! [[Abg. Grosz: We'll be right back!]] You have been in the government for seven years, and you have now mentioned almost all the issues, except the environment, which the Green Group has brought in so that we can accommodate the whole subject area in a question. They spoke of asylum and criticized the duration of the procedures. [[Abg. Oils: Be careful!]] Let us look at when the duration of the proceedings has become the longest: when you were in the government. What happened when we came to the government? We have changed the structures and the procedures have been accelerated. This is the difference between what you have done – that is to say, long procedures – and what we have done since we were in the government: The procedures are much shorter. We are not at all afraid of this comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein: Everything's better!]] Let us look at the criticism of the ÖBB-pensions: They have created a law in 2001 that allows the company to send employees necessarily in early retirement, and now they are excited that they do the same. Minister Bures says that she will now propose to him a barge so that this law, which you have decided, will no longer be applied and the actual age of arrival, the average age of retirement, which is one year per year, which is a huge challenge. That's the difference: You're talking about doing the opposite of what you're saying, and we're doing real politics with real actions and real progress in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] They talk about crime and say there are too few police officers. Yes, then let's look at what was when you were in the government – whether blue, orange, blue or just some color in between. There are rumors that the colleague Stadler always hangs a post-it on the mirror in the evening, where he writes the party so that he knows in the early days when he gets up, which party he is in there with. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're a humourist! I'm a funny man! Who's writing your jokes?]] I'm telling you, I don't care, I totally lost the overview of who's blue, orange or anything in between. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We get new seating plans and any messages at each meeting, who is back there or there or who is wild or no longer wild. In principle, it is also totally no matter what the policies you have made, the contents are always the same. So when you talk about crime here, you have to ask: Who made sure there were significantly fewer police officers? And what does this government do now? It ensures that at the end of the legislative period, there are a thousand police officers more than today, the thousand you abolished! This is the difference in politics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They complain – how was that? “Home, are you stupid sons?” or something like that; it has already been said enough about it – about education policy. What did you do? - They saved them in education. They have reduced the number of hours, thus ensuring that the students are as few in school as possible, that there is as little education as possible. What did we do? - With us, the budgets are rising. There is more money for education from year to year. There are smaller classes. There's the New Secondary School. There are steps towards a modern school system. That's the difference. In fact, you only criticize your own policy or the consequences of your policy with which we have to beat around and we are gradually improving. That's the same with taxes. What did you do? – You're raining on the manager bonuses? You yourself have decided here in the tax reform that Manager Boni will receive €35 000 tax-free share options. And when we abolished it, you didn't even agree. And then you're raining on tax bonuses? After all, they have exempt it tax-free. What you've done! Group taxation, ambulance charges introduced, accident pension tax. That's the policy you've made. The policy we've made is that we've made a tax reform of €3 billion and the people who work for their money have done a massive tax relief. This is the difference between your and our policies. When you talk about the labour market and say we have high unemployment: Yes, we have. But we are active that it remains as small as possible and that it is reduced. Only when you were in the government has unemployment increased in relation to the European average, and since we are in the government, the gap has increased. That means we're making a better policy than all the other neighbouring countries, and you've made a worse one. You can be sure: As long as we are in the government, labour market policy is x-fold better and a good policy for the labour market as opposed to the time you were in the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21847	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21869	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister! I think Austria in the European comparison is a lot better than many other countries. The second lowest unemployment rate, one of the lowest youth unemployment rates, a budget deficit below the EU average, speak a clear language that is being worked here and that there is a proper policy for Austria's economy and for Austrian workers. I think travel, economic delegations abroad, such as the last one to India, are very important, because there are contacts, there one connects for the Austrian economy, there one gets orders. I'm sure it's better than waiting at home to see if you get any call to give you an order. I mean, we are on the right path with these economic delegations abroad, and I also thank Minister Mitterlehner and Minister Pröll for these initiatives for the Austrian economy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the location is well known to determine the position, and my position is always marked by the economic interests of Austria's economic location, because what is positive for the economic location, this also brings Jobs, secures growth and, above all, contributes to the prosperity of people in our country. Now we have the biggest economic crisis since the 1930s. This is a new challenge for everyone, a new situation. It is about the future of our children, it is about the future of social systems, but it is also about the future of the economy and the entrepreneurs of Austria. That is why we must also see that the public budget is in order, that it is Maastricht-compliant and that we are taking the right measures here. I think that we have a certain wrong in the discussion, as we are mainly talking about new taxes. But I think we should talk about expenditure savings and structural changes. The Court of Auditors report clearly showed that there are potential savings in the field of health, public administration and education. I think that if we all work together here, we will find a solution. It is currently true that in 2010 we pay €7.5 billion for our debts. If we continue this way and do not make savings here, we will pay €11 billion in 2013. I think we as politicians are not at the service of the people in this country, and so we can only apply that we do not introduce new taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, another point is that black work flourishes in Austria. However, the economy escapes revenue of about €20 billion, and there is an urgent need to counter it. I think we can do something here for growth and employment if we introduce a craftsman bonus that we have long called for. That would be something for consumers, that would be something for traders and that would be something for the public budget. So we should use these potentials. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we need to be afraid: Making a system more cost-efficient does not automatically mean to worsen it. There are enough examples of this. The whole discussion on banking tax today has already shown, I believe, that: We must not punish the saver, the borrower, the house builder and the entrepreneur, but we must see that we catch the speculators who caused this crisis. It is gratifying to read in the “Kronen Zeitung” that Mr Pröll, Minister of Finance, will abolish the credit contract fee. It aims to facilitate lending to small businesses and house builders and therefore abolish the credit contract fee. I think that is another right way, a very important measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21939	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e21960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The only positive thing about what my previous speaker said was the abolition of the credit contract fee. We've been demanding them for years. It is not clear that someone who takes up a loan for an investment will also pay 0.8 percent of the taxes for investing and creating jobs. This is the only reasonable thing you've given of yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Mr Bundeskanzler and the speakers of the government parties, you are so upset about this, because in this urgent question of the BZÖ there was supposedly an inconsistency. That would have to give you some thought. There is no place in your government at all where there is no construction site. That is to say, a urgent question to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany must include all the sites that would be in need of renovation or where there is a need for action in all cases. I would rather have wondered if they had just asked a urgent question on one or two topics, because then you would have felt that all the other things in your government are absolutely okay and are running best. But what shook me a lot more is your answer. You have not given any of these urgent requests even an almost useful answer, with which you could have started something. The only thing I think good for you is that, unlike your counterpart, your vice chancellor Pröll, who has already been sitting here in the morning, you have clearly said the truth, because you have clearly stated here that a purely expenditure-side reorganisation of the budget will not be possible and therefore, of course, taxes, additional burdens for the population can be expected. This is what Mr Vice-Chancellor put in a debate on the morning. It has clearly stated that this budgetary reorganisation will take place on the expenditure side and that taxes are not possible. Now we are coming to the bank tax you are referring to, which is now in all mouths. I have already explained this to your Mr. Vice-Chancellor in the morning that it is nothing but time to win to calm the population now, because you know exactly that because of the banks, the people's anger has grown so much in the meantime, because you read daily that managers get millions of payments to bonuses and that they stop their hands on the other hand so that the state puts billions on it to secure the banks. And in order to calm these people down to keep the common people in peace, as they say so beautifully, you have now debated the bank tax. The population is calmed, it says: Yes, those who have caused the crisis are now finally asked to register. That this bank tax will not come that way, at least not with your partner ÖVP, is also clear. This is what ÖVP-internals have already announced: from the Economic Federation, President Leitl, to all the bank representatives sitting in the ÖVP series, to many more, to the industrial associations. And Mr Vice-Chancellor has already weakened today that it will not be a bank tax, but a solidarity tax, and if at all a tax, then only on speculation and not on anything else. Mr Vice-Chancellor also said that a credit terminal still exists must be prevented. That's what you've kept silent. It was also discussed that bank customers should not be taxed. How this is supposed to happen or how you want to control it, but you didn't say anything about it. Mr Krainer has said here that the opposition only criticizes, and you do policy, you put action. Now I ask you: Where are the actions you have committed? The only act that was committed a year and a half ago was the decision of the bank rescue package. All the opposition parties voted in favour because otherwise it would not have been possible to rule this situation in a very short time. That was the only thing you've done. The economic packages have never arrived where they belong. You know that in the meantime. You did not take any necessary measures, such as the thermal renovation, which was good that you should have raised. We do not know how this will continue in the future either. And then you're always talking about savings potentials. The Court of Auditors has been pointing out for years – the WIFO also jumps on this train – that there are savings in billions that would be possible here. On every occasion you go here, take the word administrative reform, health reform into the mouth, but you do not! Do you think that there is some opposition politician in this House who would be opposed if you said we were to start the administrative reform or the health reform tomorrow? We would be anxious to participate in order to make it possible for this state to save and perhaps to put the budget in order. But you don't! For a year and a half – that is now a quarter of the government period – we hear only lip confessions. You have absolutely no concrete ideas as to how you want to implement what, from the administrative reform on health reform. I'll tell you one thing: They are now calming down the population until the upcoming elections in Styria and Vienna are over, and then a load package will be given to the population that has grown. And then your argumentation is probably much faster and safer than you do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22011	Next speaker: Mr Grünewald. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22032	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! It's right, there's a lot to criticise the government, and if I've heard now, the government has opened so many construction sites before itself or that one might already think that it's part of the second economic recovery package, then there's already to think about. But if the BZÖ – which has been cut by some – so to speak, lets the criticism focus on cheese and end up in cheese and then in the argumentation finally has such gaps that one thinks one reads a press release of an alderic folklore club, you don't really meet the government where one should meet it. In my opinion or in the opinion of the Greens, the government is mainly concerned with itself and expensive advertising on its own. What remains of activity is used for the control of the political partner, and ultimately there are really essential problems – not only since this federal government, but since many – and one goes beyond the needs of the population in that one has been driving them around for years and does not ask what people need. Only one example now: education policy. The BZÖ de facto has not shown any presence in this dialogue of universities and colleges. And I wonder, How do you want to form part of this? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] That's right! In fact, almost nobody was there, and even the words and reflections were not insanely good. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Finally, the students have taken the initiative that the Federal Government has, as it were, awakened from the low-level high-level sleep. That's what rectors and others have connected to. And I believe that if a signal is not sent here soon, Austria will first lose the connection and tens of thousands of students will be standing in front of closed doors of universities and colleges. There's a need for action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But what about health policy? – The checkouts are not rehabilitated. Anyone who claims otherwise doesn't know what he's saying, or he's almost sickly optimist. The Federal Government grants cash to Kassen, but it is intended to save them in at least four or five times as much on the other side. And everything should go so that no one can feel anything. I say to you that there are a number of social inbalances, not just between the poor and the rich, but in different levels of population. There are people who can no longer afford health care, because the checkouts naturally restrict, they quota, for example in psychotherapy. There is a huge private part of self-financing. All of a sudden, only more than five hours are paid in physiotherapy, and they only take more than half an hour. Old people are barely finished taking off, they have to dress again because the hour is over. That's not good! Social discrimination against the poor is particularly effective. For example Children's home St. Isidor for severely injured, disabled, disabled children, spastic children: They need physiotherapy three times, four times a week, otherwise they can be left to their fate. In some cases only more than one hour is paid. Parents would have to catch up for four hours. They can't do that! What happened to hospice and palliative medicine? – There is a stage plan for the implementation of these services. We're going down the schedule for years. There is no sustainable financing security. There is no clear implementation plan. In Tyrol you do – thank you very much, Mr Landesrat! – now a pilot project, as if palliative medicine and hospice had emerged as a term only yesterday or had come to the people. A pilot project! And many more things. Neurorehabilitation lacks at least one third of treatment sites. People have to take or go to invalidity pensions, come to care levels because there are no treatment places. I know it costs money. But you know that reasonablely invested money in health not only reduces the suffering of individuals or many people, but also helps the economy and the Republic. We have nothing to do with the increase in disease when mental illness continues to increase in times of crisis and in danger and so on. But if then a high-level scientific institute such as the WIFO alternative financing plans for care – and I don't want to talk about that at all, because this is a scandal that happens there – is presented and these people are then deunified by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and by the Industrial Association as left-wing scientists, only because they bring alternative financing plans if they are threatened to withdraw funds or orders, this is a picture of the Republic that should make you afraid. But I do not recommend fear here, but one should get angry. And I wish you didn't keep monologues and teachings, but dialogues as to how it could get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22088	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22109	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! It is already an unfrozenness, High House, ladies and gentlemen, when a party such as the BZÖ, whose representatives in Carinthia with the scandal bank Hypo Alpe-Adria have taken the Austrian taxpayers into hostage and led Carinthia almost into bankruptcy, now in a urgent request claims that Austria is unregulated. We know, rather, what government by BZÖ politicians means. Carinthia is the current example: Carinthia was almost led into bankruptcy. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Similarly, the argument regarding the so-called Listeria scandal is similar. I've been dealing with food law for 30 years. I have rarely had to notice and listen to so much expertise, expertise of Members. I have experienced distortions, personal beliefs, untruths and insults, especially to our Federal Minister Alois Stöger. This is not a style for Members, and this, ladies and gentlemen, does not correspond to the dignity of this House. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Leave You hold me: For the diseases and pitiful deaths caused by Listerosis, not Federal Minister Alois Stöger, officials in the Ministry of Health or AGES staff, are responsible for the diseases, but only for the establishments where the contamination with Listeria took place! [[Abg. Grosz: 10 months ago...!]] Massive errors in quality assurance should be responsible. Those responsible must be found and punished. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] The second finding: All infections with deaths – listen carefully, colleague Grosz! - found before the 20th century. January 2010 event! The cause – and this is the third finding – of which food was the source of infection was established on the 20th century. January out. ==References== January 2010 has become known that it is this Hartberg cheese. [[Subsequent calls to the BZÖ.]] Then – the fourth finding – the report came to the European Rapid Warning System. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Grosz, do you know about the PC? [[Abg. Grosz: PC or BSE?]] When were You last time on the AGES page and on the side of the Federal Ministry of Health? – I just want to hold on here: From this point on, the report was found on the side of the Federal Ministry of Health and the AGES! [[Abg. ==References== Feber or before? When did the Minister know?]] To accuse the Minister of not informing him is a plumpe, primitive submission on the part of the BZÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Why did he say...?]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me hold on to this: Federal Minister Alois Stöger has decided in accordance with the law and the AGES has worked exemplaryly. All requirements of European law, the basic food regulation and Austrian food law have been complied with. Mr Grosz, I would like to remind you of one more thing: We are talking here about a law written by Mr. Federal Minister. In the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, Federal Minister Haupt has stated that it is not the Ministry but the entrepreneur that has to be informed. Only when the entrepreneur is not informed and does not perform a recall action will the Federal Ministry be obliged to carry out such information activities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] This is in line with European law, and this is in line with the Austrian Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grosz.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The argument of the BZÖ is transparent. It is plump and represents a private election campaign of Mr Grosz, which he is supposed to lead in the Styria, but not here in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, we need action at European level, and I am entitled to put forward the following motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. [[Abg. Grosz: Oh, that's it!]] Johann Maier, Dr. Rasinger on information to the public in the event of food-related outbreaks and harmful foods. This application provides for several measures. In this way, the European Rapid Alert System should also become a rapid warning system for people and for citizens. At EU level, the ministers responsible for the negotiations on the EU Information Regulation should take action to ensure that, in addition to unprocessed food, processed food – that is, cheese! – a mandatory designation of origin. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] I am correcting the argument of the BZO and the Freeman: This is not Austrian law. This is European law and must be decided at European level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: Those guilty...!]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The Federal Minister for Health should also be given the opportunity to warn the public accordingly in the event of such infections. The current regulation is limited only to food harmful to health. We also want to have a report on food safety, as there is a drinking water report. And we want to spread the information chain for consumers, involving the economy. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This is a catalogue of measures aimed at Europe. Let me conclude by saying: Food is mainly a matter of food safety and policy on the credibility of political statements. This also concerns the statements and political activity of BZÖ officials. Food can be analysed and, of course, risk assessment, as well as the statements of the BZÖ. High house! According to these claims of the BZÖ, a clear public warning comes out, and this warning is: Never choose BZÖ, believe No one from the BZÖ, this party is a danger to our country and our population!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22297	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and has been distributed because of its size. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22392	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22413	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really concerned today not to say upset. We have seven dead, that's actually trouble enough that you can show, also in this high house. And I'm upset at how this is discussed to find solutions. This is not at all a matter of debate, but rather an attempt is being made to earn party-political small money at the expense of consumers' health. I strongly reject that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Let's try to work out what happened together! If there are shortcomings in information when there are deficits in control, then we owe consumers the second time to show these deficits, to inform them clearly so that consumers in Austria also have the appropriate protection and security for the future. [[Abg. Grosz: Exactly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! I would ask you to also give us information on where these shortcomings have occurred, whether in the Federal Government or in the Federal Government. I also come from Styria, and I have not heard a single word about it from the Styrian Food Authority, for which Franz Voves is responsible, until the hour, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Owl: No change!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] That's why I really ask you, it's a scandal that happened. It is a scandal that the term Hartberger Farmer Quargel may also be used for this. That's fraud! [[Demonstrative applause with BZÖ.]] In the end, this is also fraud against consumers, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I say to you: Let us create framework conditions here in this House, but also at European level, to finally stop this consumer fraud, ladies and gentlemen. Because if there is no single drop of Austrian milk in there, that's just fraud. It is therefore important, in my opinion, to take action at European level to ensure that there are clear designations of origin. This will be too little nationally, but we also need to intervene in the new regulation at European level, Mr. Federal Minister, that is why I ask you, to ensure that there is a clear designation of origin. The damage, which has already been done in the last few days, is in any case great enough: seven deaths, damage to farmers, although there is not a single litre of milk inside Austria, damage to the economy, damage to those affected and, ultimately, a risk to the 110 jobs in Hartberg. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you: Let us together create clear framework conditions, clear laws here in this House too! Let's not just try and earn political change. On and on we have very good conditions with the AMA seal, that is, Austria is in there at a hundred percent. It must be concluded that there is not a hundred percent of Austria in where Austria stands. That is why we have launched an initiative to draw people's attention, in addition to these health issues, to the fact that, in this economic crisis in particular, they are increasingly involved in domestic food, because the purchase of 10 percent more domestic food is to be equated with 10 000 jobs in Austria. So here there is really a wealth of questions that we have to solve. But the most important and the primacy of all these efforts must be the safety of our consumers!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22487	Mr Zanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22508	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Yes, there is a standstill in the country. That is what we see on today's agenda, which is to say that some 700 opposition requests are in the committees and are not being dealt with. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, they're just being postponed, that's the tactics of this federal government. For this, your ministers were running around the world history, currently at the Vancouver Olympics. I am glad that Minister Darabos has already left, because if he continues to transfer the failure as Minister of State Defense here in Austria to the athletes, then it will only have fourth places. Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter seems to be looking for a location for her first recording center in Canada – she is supposed to stay! No federal state would be a better brand for the standstill than currently the Styria. At this point, we are concerned about the level of minimum security, and the SPÖ really wants a much better equipment of the same. If it's your argument Is that you don't want to create a two-class society, then I say: That's what you do with it! Because you create the one who earns money through work, and the others who lie in the hammock and get as much for it. It can't be! We should not think about how much someone gets who doesn't work, but we should think about it: How do we provide work for people in this country so that they can earn their lives so that they can maintain their family? – That would be a question. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have recently held a very intense discussion, and this has initially led me, I must say, to be very positive. It was, as it were, a cross-party body that found itself on a more or less voluntary basis and began to think aloud about it: What can we do, in particular, for the Upper Styria crisis region? – The ÖVP was there, the SPÖ was there, we were there. It has begun very well with the idea of creating an aeronautical competence centre for the Obersteiermark area, which would have provided everything necessary, from the companies already working in aviation technology, from the infrastructure that is available through the airport in tentway. I still take the stationing of the Eurofighters on the edge. This has therefore begun very well, until then – and this is the sadness of history – the ÖVP has come down in the country day and has so to speak without the knowledge of the partner a request, but the SPÖ has then agreed to it, because it seems that this group has had its effect at least in the minds of the responsible ones. Here in the House, this proposal has been in the committee for about a year and a half and a half and is constantly being postponed. In the meantime, I brought in a new one, and we have to deal with it first. But the sad thing is that the SPÖ is obviously so offended that the blacks have introduced it in the country day that it is blocking here. At least that's my assumption. Correct me by finally treating it, because it was initially a cross-party idea for the people in Styria. I think that's our responsibility, whether from red or black or anything else! There's something we have to do, there we have to act. At the moment, the Steiermark standstill. This year we have the municipal council elections in March, and we have the country elections in autumn. Our call was to put these elections together, to carry them out at once. This would have saved us millions of taxpayers, and it would have saved us a year of campaign. During this campaign year in Styria nothing happens there! People stand on the street, have no money, can no longer afford their lives, and the SPÖ, like the ÖVP, does nothing about it. That's why, ladies and gentlemen of red and black: Let's sit together – this is an offer from us – and let's do something! Otherwise, you will certainly get the bill presented during the elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22578	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. – Bitt e.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22605	Ladies and gentlemen! We are close to the end of the debate. One thing that I have listened to all the time is completely unsatisfying to me, and I think for most of you as well: On the one hand, this BZÖ herb and herb affair is obviously designed to divert from its own responsibility in the Hypo-Alpe-Adria disaster in Carinthia, and on the other hand, it is not appropriate to deal in depth with the shortcomings of the food control sector in Austria in a parliamentary request. It's not really possible either. I will still take out some points here and try to bring light into the dark. It is therefore an accusation to the Minister, whom you, Minister Stöger, have removed very quickly from the table, in a way that I honestly do not think is sufficient. In the way you presented it, this is also contrary to exactly the request that the government parties have now made. In fact, the motion for a resolution we are going to support Greens explicitly addresses information deficits between countries, the AGES and the Ministry and within the institutions. You have not said a word about this, Minister of State. This would have been an opportunity to address precisely the shortcomings that have occurred in the context of this Listeria scandal. The fact is: You informed the EU in good time, that is true. They also, or in the end, the entrepreneur has ensured that the product has been withdrawn. But you have not made offensive publicity, and you have not explained from when – Mr Grillitsch – that is relevant – a sample to the suspicion. From when does risk management begin, and when does the red lamp begin to shine? – So far, there have been four samples, four suspicious samples; my knowledge has now reduced this to two. It would also have been good to chat a little out of one's own box to simply understand the question of food control. One thing, in my opinion, is also unexplained: We have a Director-General for Public Health in Austria. What is the task of such a Director-General for Public Health, if not in exactly one case, as soon as a case is clear, to do everything to inform consumers and to inform you, the Federal Government, of the dangers, to inform the market, to inform consumers? – There is enough to discuss this from our point of view, because there is enough to look more closely at. However, we will not support the motion for a reluctance, because you still have one of my opinion quite rightful deadline. There is, of course, a five-party proposal that we decided here in Parliament in November, and we are now waiting for you to implement these steps immediately, including those measures which we requested in November. A point has already been raised by Mr Grillitsch: The Hartberger Farmer Quargel is consumer fraud, is fraud against the citizen, the citizen who in the right belief that it is a regional product, buy this product. But what's in it? – A German and wherever the product or raw material is cut! It can't be. Foods are sensitive products, a designation of origin is mandatory d. A first good proposal would be to ensure that, if you bring the quality mark law here into the Parliament, you are also only in Austria or the region concerned, as we have already stated in the AMA seal, in the case of quality marks, where Austria stands. This should generally apply to quality marks in Austria. These are the things, or the funding gap of the Agency for Health and Food Safety, of which we have a negative annual financial statements of almost € 1 million in 2008. We could also have discussed this in detail. When we talk about food safety, we need to ensure that food control is ensured. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, and addressed to the Federal Chancellor: You are quite right that you have agreed that it would be necessary to discuss much more intensively in Parliament. There's an open ear on the greens. Yes, please, stop the blockade from the government fractions! Bring your template to the house! Also, make sure that we discuss in detail the really difficult issues of the next budget with experts in the committees and also set out measures so that the Austrians can say with certainty that the future is positive and that we can look to the future with good conscience. You should do that, and then you will also see our contribution and our support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22659	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22680	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary! I would like to take a little protection from this work, already called herb and beet: herb is known to be relatively healthy: For example, you can make a herb soup, and herb is popular and tolerable. [[Abg. Grosz: That can't harm you! That's very healthy and defiling!]] Beetroots can be consumed as red beet salads, and they supply sugar. What you deliver, however, is neither conventional nor useful nor a special contribution. You've mixed everything there's somewhere! We therefore have nothing left but to process the part in part. I would like to address that part in which you also quote me, namely the question of the extent to which it makes sense to tax banks with respect to respect for speculators and to proceed with taxes in the field of financial products. – We can lead this discussion seriously. We have already dealt with the first part in the current hour. It was written in the BZÖ’s parent book: They were the party that, with group taxation, produced those tax loopholes that have allowed the billions to no longer be paid! They have created the conditions for the fact that speculation assets and their achievements are de facto tax-free! We strive – and our thanks goes to the Federal Government, which has just taken the first step at the banking summit on Monday – to register tax amounts there again. We would like to re-cash where very large profits have been made at the expense of the real economy and consumers and from where hardly any more tax revenue comes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] But BZÖ doesn't want a bank tax. It's in this paper! I didn't know that Members Bucher and Grosz are now part of the ÖVP! They were insisting on it, and that is to say that there should be no bank tax! That means: The BZÖ acts here as the party that wants tax freedom for banks. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Let's move on. Let us consider the issue of capital increase taxation on company shares. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grosz.]] – I would like to explain it to you, Mr Grosz. In your district, explain to the butcher's master, why the full tax applies to the sale of his farm! Explain You'll have to pay a full tax on the sale of his place of business! Explain to the hostess once he sells a building, why he should pay the full tax! And explain, Mr Grosz, why, if the speculators are to pay the same, the BZÖ is coming and Mr Grosz is acting as defender of the speculators and the Zocker! “BZÖ” only stands for “bank and soccer party of Austria”, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You, Mr Grosz, are acting here as representatives of the Zocker and Banks, but then the Federal Government, which ensures that the budget is going to be fine, is going to burden it. This government relieves and acts! That's also written to you in the herb and herb tree book!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22754	Mr Jury is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22775	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to return to a serious and objective level when dealing with this urgent question. If you look at the statements of the pro- and counter-voicers here at the pult, you have to ask: Have some not understood that, or are they really so ignorant? – The government proclaims itself as a great savior in the crisis, as a major crisis leader. And some in the opposition act as if they had simply thrown overboard the moral and ethical principles that are repeatedly demanded in economic life. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] If you talk about moral and ethical principles in economic life, then you first come to the financial sectors, where mad painting, lazy products and extraterrestrial banking managers – as anyone has said – the half-world is thrown into the abyss, and if you look at the morals and ethics of the food-producing industry, you actually see the same thing here as in the financial economy, namely criminal machinations. [[Abg. Oils: Are you talking about the hypo?]] Mr Oellinger, it's nice that you too are my opinion! However, the hypo has nothing to do with a food scandal. [[Abg. Oils: Who knows?- Oh, my God!]] Let us first work on the food scandal and then come to the banks and the financial scandals! By the way, there is not only the hypo, but also the BAWAG, the “consumer, ” and there, 20 years back, the Voest. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] You could do that again! But now we are at the food scandal, ladies and gentlemen! It is already very striking, Mr Grillitsch, when a seal of goodness has been cried out, which the opposition has been calling for for years! The opposition has always called for a seal of quality for domestic products, but this has been largely negated by the government parties. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] In connection with this food scandal, Mr. Health Minister, anyone has to assume political responsibility. Who is that? Should this be our farmers who produce, process and market only healthy food? Who is to take on this political responsibility? – I believe, Federal Minister, that you have to take on this responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22845	I now give the floor to Mr Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22867	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! As a doctor, I'm really the last person who wouldn't regret this death victim. It should be remembered! In addition, as a doctor, I am also the last person who would not like to prevent this. But I'm also the last one who supports instrumentalizing these incidents to flick someone on the stuff. I would like to draw your attention to this: Infectious diseases are present worldwide. They occur daily in Austria, and it is a great task to reduce them. There's not just the list giant. A few months ago, we talked about the pig flu. There are salmonellas, there are Shigelen et cetera. I really don't want to bore you. So there's not just the list giant. But thanks to God, various measures in food law and in the production processes – following hygiene rules is our daily task – the number of infectious diseases and, above all, the number of deaths also fell dramatically in hospitals. Austria certainly does not need to hide. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Just in the case of the lists you can see very well that the whole thing had meaning. First of all, it was remarkable that one has even come up with lists. That's not a matter of course! [[Abg. May. Stadler: In August of the previous year!]] – Mr “Doctor” Stadler explains this to the world now! If you realize that, I congratulate you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] You will get 100 € immediately if you detect an infectious disease once in your life. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Thank God you are a lawyer and not a hobby doctor! Let's stay at the bottom of the seriality! It is really criminalistic fine work that the Germans have not brought together or had that one has found out at all what business this is. But it is very likely to ask questions. – First of all: Has this company carried out sufficient checks? Secondly, Can we get even stricter in the process than we are? Thirdly – Mr Grillitsch has already mentioned it –: Does it make sense that Hartberger Quargel actually comes from Holland or elsewhere? – I think we should try to get tougher. I think that the accusations that have fallen today are absurd! Mr Bucher, if one is about to accuse a minister of having a cheese sold for half a year, I think that this is quite deep from the level you like to hold up in the media. The latte you laid down is very deep. Even the claim that one protects the farmers or the companies is really embarrassing. It's not embarrassing anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bucher.]] As a sign of this herb-and-Rüben question, Mr. Stöger is still being accused of being a so-called minister. – I really recommend: Take a look at your own door! Put a level slat higher than on ankle height! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We really don't need hell in health policy. The Minister should have been Hellseher! We also do not need health-policy rambos that sweep empty shelves. Would the ministers have had all milk products and other products removed from the supermarkets? I would have looked at the scandal if it didn't even know where this product came from! He would have been liable! So we do not need lights and no rambos, but we need, especially in health policy, competent and above all correct people and federal politicians! [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This minister is correct and competent. I have found this myself, and that is why we will not fail to trust the Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22955	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stadler. Your group's remaining speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e22977	Mr President. High house! There were several urgent requests from the then opposition SPÖ here in the House, which was shocked by the cultural shock that it was in the opposition at that time, until today we do not recover! At that time it was about BSE and against Prime Minister. However, you were unable to prove to Prime Minister something that we have been able to prove today to Mr. Stöger that he needed months after a disease was diagnosed to warn the public. Head warned immediately. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's the point: We do not accuse you that you have contaminated the quargel, but we accuse you that you or your ministry have been inactive for months and have appeared in the house today with ignorance and indolence! That is to blame you, Minister, and nothing else. This ignorance and indolence allows conclusions to be drawn to the entire government. Federal Chancellor! It has not been a single time since I was a member of this House – with interruption since 1994 – that a cabinet meeting has been held almost because of the fact that all members of the government are around the world at tax-paying costs. Ladies and gentlemen! There's never been that! Do you think that's a lack of BZÖ's perception? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There's never been that! I've got to do a bite now. Under him at least all the Cabinet members were there! I don't want to talk about their work, but at least they were there. Faymann doesn't even bring his cabinet together again! That's not supposed to be a job refusal? The government members are counting on tax pay costs! Since I was a member of the National Council, it has never happened that there has been almost no agenda for a National Council meeting. Rather, we had to limit the speaking time because we even talked over the night! Ladies and gentlemen! The government parties did not want to do that at the time. Today we are embarrassed that we do not even know what we should even talk about, because the government does not bring anything together. Is that a lack of perception? Do you think the public is cheating on this? You need urgent coordination, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and there is a need for you to exchange a minister, who today is through legendary people. has shone contemptuous or cynical ignorance and indolence. [[President Neugebauer gives the bell sign.]] This minister is a problem for your Federal Government! And this request, which Mr Rasinger has signed and which is present today, is proof of the accuracy of our concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23056	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grosz, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence in the Federal Minister for Health in accordance with Art. 74 para. 1 B-VG. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Maier, Dr. Rasinger, colleagues on information to the public in the event of food-related outbreaks (food infections) and harmful foods. If you join this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 82.) [[18:25:35]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23114	We shall now proceed to a brief debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Ing. Mr Hofer, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the request 100/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts and colleagues with regard to ensuring the training of nurses a period of up to 24 years. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker is allowed to speak for more than 5 minutes, and the first speaker is available for 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government and by-word state secretaries should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. Hofer. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23149	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated members of the Federal Government! In the last few days, we have discussed the fact that there are apparently too few proposals for the National Council to carry out a second working day in this Parliament. The allegation was that this was only due to the evil opposition that refused to treat two-thirds materials. Ladies and gentlemen, I have therefore chosen a request which has been allocated to the Committee since 2008. This application concerns the maintenance and training of nurses. – As you know, there have been scandals in Austria until recently about politicians who were responsible for illegal care in the private environment. That was also the reason why the so-called care emergency was proclaimed. An effort has then been made to ensure that legal care in Austria is feasible and manageable in the framework of a 24-hour care package. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the practice now? – The fact is that a nursing mafia has established itself. At present, someone who needs a 24-hour care and wants to make it legal is turning to a club. This association will first collect around €1,000 a year for the placement of a caregiver. Furthermore, costs of about 50 to 60 € per day are due so that this 24-hour care can be carried out legally. The sufferers are also those who carry out these care and care activities, because these persons also pay a certain amount to this association in Austria, but also to the association in the home country. – For example, an agency will become active in Slovakia. This means that a person who carries out care activities here, and this agency must be paid. In addition, the agency in Austria still has to be paid, and in the end, the money that the caregiver pays for the caregiver or the caregiver is not so much left! It is therefore necessary for us here in Austria to make every effort to give young Austrians the chance to become really active in this profession of the future. We need to launch a training offensive here, health and nursing schools must also be taken over in the general school of the federal government, and there must be a degree with specialist matura, so that these people will have the possibility of access to the university later, if they want. It was our proposal – and this is part of it – to set up a Federal Association for Care and Care so that these mediation activities are not carried out with profit, so that the person in need of care has the opportunity to get a replacement when the caregiver is on vacation, and so that the training of caregivers is ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, all these are points that have been tabled here in the House, and these applications are postponed and shaken, and the figures speak for themselves. I now only mention the opposition’s requests – there are also requests from the government’s mandates who are active. There are 711 applications which have not yet been dealt with in the plenary session. 711 applications! [[Abg. New builder: This is incredible!]] Of these 222 applications for negotiation in the committees and 449 applications have not yet been allocated. And then go here and say, In fact, the opposition is due to the fact that this second plenary day cannot take place. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is dishonest, and we strongly oppose it! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The refusal of work, ladies and gentlemen, is taking place in the committees. Let me give you an example: A committee meeting, 14 agenda items, two of them government proposals, twelve opposition requests. Twelve opposition applications are postponed, often with adventurous reasons. You all know that! Some representatives of the government parties are often embarrassed if they are required by the political group to present a justification for the postponement. That's why you've chosen a new way: You don't even reason any more. That's what happens. One simply makes the request for a postponement, and it is not justified. I still have an example in my mind: It was a request to determine which public buildings would be suitable for installing photovoltaic systems there, i.e. an evaluation of those buildings, where this would be possible due to the location of the building, due to its orientation and so on and as far as possible. The application was then postponed by the reason that a survey is not necessary because at present the municipalities have the possibility to carry out thermal rehabilitation measures. – One has nothing to do with the other at all, but that was precisely the reason for this request for a postponement. Or, you all know the problem with the answers to the questions. We mandates, including representatives of the government parties, ask occasionally questions to the competent members of the Federal Government. And what comes in here as an answer is very, very close to an increase in the mandate and in this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An example – also mentioned by the Greens – was a request concerning flu protection masks by the Austrian Federal Army: Where are these masks stored? What happens to these flu protection masks? – The answer: The question of military security cannot be answered. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] A second question: There is a federal state – you know it in this federal state – from which the Federal Minister for Defence comes, and there are assistant soldiers. They are also housed in a building belonging to a close relative of the minister. [[Abg. Neubauer: Randomly!]] - That's nothing bad. There you can say: Why should this close relative be excluded? But they asked: Where are assistant soldiers? Is there any close relationship? – The answer: For reasons of military security, this question cannot be answered – although everyone knows where these soldiers are located. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] But military security, ladies and gentlemen, is going on here. [[Abg. Weinzinger: Enemies!]] [[Abg. New builder: enemy hears with!]] Or a question to Mrs Federal Minister Fekter, which mayor would have been interested in a first recording center. – The answer: It was agreed with the mayors silently, so one cannot answer this question. I do not care what Federal Minister has agreed with whomever private anything. There is the right of Members to interact in this House, and that is why the question must also be answered. And we also need to talk about that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what we need to talk about. [[Abg. Head: She answered her!]] – Yes, she has replied that she does not want to answer it. That too is an answer. We must, however, talk about how the right of the mandates to question is really dealt with. Finally, every party can find that it is also sitting on the opposition bank, perhaps even sometime the ÖVP – you don't know – and then it would be very bad if the government parties were to deal with the opposition the same way. [[Abg. Neubauer: Hopefully!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is so much to do for this Parliament and for the Federal Government! The administrative reform that you really have to address and what Mr. Federal Chancellor is telling us today: This is not so easy because it is necessary to negotiate with the national leaders! Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition is ready to provide the necessary two-thirds majority for a genuine administrative reform! One fears from the government parties only that precisely these heads of state are represented in the federal boards of these parties. That is the only reason why we do not have any administrative reform to date. And that is disgraceful and very, very bad! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are also many requests that cost nothing at all. An example: Set the minimum height of road signs. That's what you're going to say, it's not that important, it's just a small thing. However, blind people have a problem when they are on the walkway and hit the road sign with their head. It would be no easier than to put to the vote and implement such a very simple, very simple proposal, which really does not cost anything. Or: Recognising deafness – this too has not happened to this day. So the overall impression is that this federal government is not the best we have ever had. I wonder today why Alfred Gusenbauer was muttered out of office. [[Abg. Neubauer: Because he only wanted to work up to 60!]] I don't understand. If I compare his personality, his intellectual access to the skills that the official brings in today, then I don't think you've improved it. I think cast builder was a better chancellor. I think so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And this weakness of the chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, is also symptomatic of the weakness of this federal government. It'll start again. We know this: Disputes and conflicts begin. And I can guarantee you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: As soon as the survey values for the ÖVP go up, there will be new elections.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23320	The speaking time of the other Members who have been spoken shall not exceed 5 minutes each. Mrs Oberhauser spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23344	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am usually only used by the BZÖ to the use of a proposal for a deadline or a short debate, starting from the training of nurses, through photovoltaics to the intelligence quotas of certain individual politicians. [[Abg. New builder: Caster!]] The fact that Mr Hofer's report, from which I am otherwise used to a relatively serious debate on the subject, especially in the field of care, care or also in the field of disabled persons, has really surprised me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grosz: So you are a rhetorical...!]] The motion for a resolution, which is being used here, I say, to discuss the question of how resolutions are dealt with in committees or with requests from other political groups, mixes quite a lot between care and care, as you did at the beginning of your statement where you referred to this request. They speak of the training of nurses, but at the same time say we have care and care. They call for the integration into the regular school system, a three-year training course, training with Matura, all these things and also speak of care and care. I think we both agree that these are two different pairs of shoes. This means that we need caregivers for the 24-hour care, for the care of the elderly, for all kinds of things, but we will also need trained and very well-trained caregivers – that is, much, much more than is hidden here in this motion for a resolution. It's actually too short for me. What we need is a system that allows permeability as regards the age of people who want to take care of the care profession and a permeability as regards the levels of qualification. We know that the urge in care professions now comes especially in higher age groups – I say so once. These are partly people who fall out of business, because the job is simply gone, because it will no longer come in times of crisis, and who are then interested in going to a care or care profession. We may need a relatively low level of access to old-age care and care, which, if it is optimal, is also uniformly regulated throughout the country, so that a fluctuation between the individual states is ensured, but we will also need qualified caregivers for the review of care and care activities, which will then in principle also be trained in tertiary education. That is to say, there is already a working group in the Ministry of Health, which is concerned with how we can carry out a modular system from low-level care to high-qualified care at academic level. That's also what we need. What we need is what Mr Hofer said, namely a qualified discussion on these things. And a qualified discussion cannot be conducted in the context of a deadline. We are not going to say: Yes, there is a need to discuss, but, as has been said, from low-sensitivity to academically trained health and health care, but in a proper process within the Committee and not within the framework of a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23403	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23425	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that on my first working day, I will be able to deal with a subject that is very important to me: the future of care. Mr Hofer, you may be surprised, but I generally agree with you on your findings on the situation of care. We have a problem here, and I also agree with you: If we do not manage to eliminate the staff we have in the care sector and will also increase, then we are heading towards a veritable crisis. I can give you an example. For example, we have in the district of Linz-Land – this is my home district, but I also know this from other districts in Upper Austria – homes that no longer give their rooms to the whole, not because they do not have anyone who wants to go there, and because they would not be needed, but because they do not have any staff going there. - Well, it's a topic. You have rightly pointed out in your motion for a resolution the demographic development and the fact that the foreign nurses – and we are very happy about them – will not be available to us forever, and we must be as honest as they are, to help us get out of a rather serious care crisis at the time. The topic of training – how do we reform training? – has already spoken to my previous speaker. There this modular system is certainly a very, very good and very common way. But it also has to be paid. Care professions are traditional women's occupations. This has been done by women for many centuries, of course, out of their own understanding and not paid. This is a bad consequence now that – and I cannot take the trade unions entirely out of responsibility too – the topic of remuneration in this area has never been a big topic, as in other women's professions. I am thinking, for example, of kindergarten teachers. This reward is a big topic. This means that it will not be cost-neutral possible. I'm not with you anymore, I don't understand your hurry. If we can get this We want to reform the area in such a way that we don’t cry “fire at the roof” next year that we don’t have to start reforming the reform next year, it simply takes the time. This will, of course, be about the involvement of all players, and this will be the crucial question: What does it cost? Who pays? And how do we share the extra costs? That the communities – and we have heard this more often today – have come to their financial limits, we all know. It will therefore be necessary to find a good, wise solution with the appropriate time, which attracts care, which modernizes care accordingly, and which also distributes the financial additional burden accordingly. Therefore, there is a clear yes by us to the comprehensive treatment of this area – thank you also for the initiative – but there is also an equally clear no to set deadlines.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23482	Next speaker: Mr Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23503	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, full support for my colleague Norbert Hofer. [[Abg. Riepl: I thought that!]] He is a very, very profiled policyist in the field of energy policy, in the field of social policy, as well as in the field of social and disability policy. Mrs Oberhauser, you can't just do this if a representative of this House addresses a very sensitive area, where there are obviously large deficits and a vacuum, as if this were the last polemic, according to the motto: That's what we're doing, and we're not going to break up with it. What Mr Hofer has addressed is not only a material deficit, but also a structural one with regard to your practice of dealing with parliamentary instruments. This includes the question and the application policy and your way of dealing with it. And this is anything but a dignified handling of the House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What caught me up with information about two years ago was even the most absurd thing I've ever heard. It concerns a colleague of yours who is no longer in the House. It was Mrs Haidlmayr who once again wanted to set up an initiative in an deliberation in the Parliamentary Transport Committee with two requests, which would have been anything but the great ideological stoppage and which would not have cost much. These were just small things where they wanted to achieve improvements for the disabled in the area of transport policy. This has once again been rejected with the grace of the coalition parties. She then pointed out that she had been having this request in the Parliamentary Warehouse for 13 years. [[Abg. New builder: Incredible!]] It has re-opened these applications, as they always expire with the legislative period. And then, when she was still in the high house, she did not find the grace that you, ladies and gentlemen, from the red-black government, are about whether you are for it or against it. I am telling you that this is simply a cowardly and inappropriate way of dealing with the initiatives of opposition mandates. Have the courage to reject that! That's not a problem either. I would like you to have the courage to debate it honestly and in terms of content. Why do we not use the parliamentary committees to discuss ideas wherever they come from and to try to achieve anything that brings something positive to the population under the line? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They're going to delay everything! I have, for example, allowed myself to make a request on the subject of the change mark Auto-Motorrad, an initiative that you have called for over many years that your motorcycle organisation calls for loud. You said: No, we do not vote on that, we postpone it! – Now, with a certain degree of criticism, I say: You always have a corresponding grinser ready, if you delay! They do not only baden the initiatives of the opposition mandatare, they also do a bad service to the House in total. Why can we not have more committee dates, where we can honestly discuss them, with a wider area also for the debate? It's not media-public anyway! It is not possible to discuss, in two hours, once in the quarter, a few materials, but more often, once a month and from time to time, honestly, proposals, no matter where these proposals come from, whether they come from black, orange, green, blue or red. Let us talk about it and try to gain something and extract from it and negotiate what is beneficial for the people! Its approach to Parliament is: a quarterly committee, in two hours, going through everything, all of the requests arrive in the waiting room. And there are not a few, there are over 700 – Mr Hofer has already explained – who are not treated by you. I think the representative has at least the right to vote on his application within a reasonable time limit and to at least experience ‘no’ or ‘yes’ and to follow up the initiatives. - It doesn't work that way. We are here at a later hour, and the media release is only more conditional, but maybe go They also consider once and for all whether it would not be possible to live up to this Parliament more, discuss more, debate more and, with all these wonderful initiatives, which are available from all parties, to extend valuable lessons here, which could be of good service to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23570	Next speaker: Mr Oellinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23592	Ladies and gentlemen! Somehow today I have the bad luck of always talking to Mr Vilimsky in front of me. And at least I have to give him right in a few points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] To the address of the colleague Oberhauser or the colleague: Thank you for the contributions! But it's kind of scratched around the back. They provide both wonderful examples of how a debate on content should take place. They deliver them here in plenary on the occasion of a debate on time-limits, at the same time declare that they vote in favour of the time-limits. You do not agree because you want to debate content. Only: The content of the debate which you are presenting here is never held in the Committee, because if we have on the Committee's agenda the individual requests made by Mr Hofer or the other 70 requests which have not yet been debated, then it will come very quickly after the debate has been opened and the request has been presented, the note that it is necessary to postpone, either without reason or with reason. The debate you have here, Mr Oberhauser, and you, Mrs Colleague, are also having very good arguments, such as a poisoned, fragrant bait, where you think it would be really worthwhile to continue to discuss – you are immediately involved, would be interested in taking up the debate on what you both said – is exciting. Just, we all know exactly, that's all just for show here, because what happens now? The deadline is rejected by you. We wait forever in the Committee until the request is finally put on the agenda, and then, when it is put on the agenda, no matter what the request, we know that it will be postponed. And there are examples, some have already been mentioned where this is no longer on a cow's skin. Now, just as Mr Vilimsky or others have done, you can go here for moral reasons or with a moral impetus and say that you can't, but you can also find out – and that's the question you have to ask yourself – quite soberly and simply: If you continue to do so, if we continue to do so, Parliamentaryism in Austria has already played its future. No one will want to listen to us anymore, just as I wanted to listen to you now, and then we have played the future of the political system as a whole when we put on democracy. I believe that this self-evision and this political culture, where there is only more of the hustle and heat – if the government says one thing, the opposition says the other – where you do not actually listen, where you do not work together on a topic that should have done so. I didn't. It celebrates joyful originals in Parliament, with the processes that exist in the committees – that has already been described – with the procedures that exist in response to questions. We have said last week that requests are not answered, and this failure to answer takes place in a quality that I have not experienced for a long time. I want to be careful, but that's disastrous. It is disastrous how ministers do not answer questions – examples have been mentioned – and It is disastrous what the impact this has on Parliament's ability to control, criticise and deal with a government, no matter where it may be. All of us should take our noses: There is no such thing as a question of contention. And we are all required to make them take place primarily in the committees and, secondly, if this were to work in the committees, let them take place here in plenary. That would be worth the attempt, and that is why you should actually agree to the deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23649	Next speaker: Mrs Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23670	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yesterday in the “Kurier” a comment was made: It governs the “long bank. ” This designation applies precisely to government work, but also to committee work. It is a standstill, it is a refusal to work, it is blockade in all committees in which I too am primarily represented. The most recent example in the Health Committee has again shown: There has been no meeting of the Committee on Health to date, as negotiations in the last committee have said: Yes, a government template, but no opposition requests. . So, ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be done, because it is enormous how to deal with oppositional applications, how to disregard the contents of these applications. You've seen it today, you're partly making fun of it. This is not in the sense of this House and not in the sense of what we and what we were elected for. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs is one of the most important committees at all, and in the social field there are so many construction sites. Construction site one is for example the pension. We always hear from the Minister's announcements that at the end of the year something will come to the disability pension, to the heavy work regulations. He says, probably we all have to work longer. People are not insured, but no concrete things are put on the table and no new ideas are brought. Construction site two – this has been addressed by Mr Hofer today –: the care. In 2006, the care emergency has been declared, and now we should call the care stop in 2010. We from BZÖ have just submitted many applications in the field of care. An application provides the teaching profession for care and care, a training that can be a good link, but can also close the gap between a caregiver and those who have a very high level of training, because we know we need a lot of young people for this field in the future, for these activities. Or: a BZÖ application for the voluntary social year. This request has been postponed since October 2008! In principle, it is only about paying the family allowance for this year. You do it, of course, but you could also put it on a legal basis. Or: the area of health. We have heard today what inaction in health care has been achieved by the Minister, what miscarriage is done, and especially in the health field there is so much to be done, whether it be the merger of social security funds, whether it be a uniform system as regards self retention as regards prevention as regards the discharge of children and young people in medicine. We from BZÖ have submitted 13 applications to this area alone in 2009, and no one has been treated until now. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ! If you already accept our requests and perhaps discuss a little, then at least you refuse them if you don't want them to, but this delay and in-the-sheblade layer, which is actually the worst thing that can happen to you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If Mrs Oberhauser says that you have to look at the requests carefully, because they are messing up like herb and beetroots, then you are so honest and say that in the committee, and do not constantly delay her! Most applications are postponed. Reject her! But we know exactly: If you reject them, these requests will be discussed here in the House and have the public, and this public does not want you because the opposition brings in good applications because the opposition has correct answers to the necessary questions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, I ask you from ÖVP and SPÖ to: As an opposition, at least do not hinder us in committee work, because we all and especially we from BZÖ want to work permanently for this country and for the people. We want to see fundamental reforms finally created, we want finally to start saving in the administration, and we want social security and social balance to be ensured in the future. If you have already decided to be inactive in the government and also in Parliament, at least you do not prevent us from working because the BZÖ wants to shape the future and has many correct answers!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23765	The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hofer, fellow Members, the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on reporting on the motion for a resolution 100/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Courts and colleagues with regard to ensuring the training of nurses a period of up to 24 years. ==References== If you are in favour of this deadline request, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[18:59:45]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23804	I will resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. I call Mr Mayerhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23828	Mr President. Estimated Minister! My contribution relates to refugee care. This follow-up review points out that, unfortunately, some of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations from 2007 were only partially fulfilled. The newly created asylum court, the one responsible for the reduction of long-term proceedings by 1. According to the Court of Auditors, on July 2008, it will not be able to deal with the setback, the huge backlog – that is, we would also be able to cope with one of the major construction sites that we have just spoken about by 2010. This would, however, be a cost-saving measure of at least €37 million – this is the “smallness” of 500 million schilling. [[President Dr. Graf takes over the chairmanship.]] The number of open asylum procedures in 2009 was around 30 000. The number of employees in the asylum court has been increased in a plausible and reasonable manner from 20 to 60. I do not think that is enough. It is assumed that 260 cases are handled per employee per year. This was, of course, far too optimistic. The work performance there is very high and the employees are very committed, but unfortunately there are still too few. There would therefore be a need to invest in more staff there. What would really bring great savings, these are the Dublin-out procedures, where one would have to invest in more organizational power and, above all, in more personnel. This would be urgently needed, because it reduces costs. This procedure is aimed at those who come to Austria and call themselves asylum seekers, but are actually economic refugees. In my opinion, in these cases it must be decided within days, as is the case elsewhere and in civilised states. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is only in Austria that we have a long-lived and patient attitude in this respect, which does not go at the expense of the government, the government parties, but at the expense of taxpayers, that is what I would like to say. The Austrians have to be aware of why the social networks in this country are becoming thinner and thinner, because the money is flowing there: 12,5 million € per month for asylum care! You can't repeat that often enough, that's quickly said, but very hard earned and takes its time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would have to be much faster to deal with the backlog instead of trying to invest in the impact, how this has now happened in the back in Eberau – in the particularly intelligent and popular nature of the woman's interior ministers. The Burgenländers probably did not like this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can offer you a chance if such initiatives are launched in Thalham or in various other communities: They will all be rejected by the population! You have to take note of that. Why does Austria organize work – and therefore costs – for which Austria is not at all responsible? That's my question. Why is Austria declared a reservoir for economic refugees from all over the world? Who ever asked the Austrians if they wanted to? In relation, the question arises whether one can simply determine this as a politician. It is the money of the citizens used here. If the President of the Court of Auditors is always praised with his team, we should take account of these very reasonable results and demands of the Court of Auditors as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23907	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23928	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The annual activity report of the Court of Auditors is so diverse that it is not possible to avoid focusing on the main topics, be it two or three. Theme number one: This activity report for a whole year covers mainly the control of the ministries with regard to whether or not the Court of Auditors' suggestions, recommendations and reasons have been taken into account. I believe that this is the most important activity, namely to re-check, because the suggestions have been so to speak, and the institutions concerned may not be concerned about them. That is why this report of activity is very valuable to me. I would suggest the following, Mr President – perhaps you would encourage this publicly –: Ministries which are unable to comply with your suggestions within a period of two years must budgetly expect consequences. It is necessary to introduce practically a ponale for those ministries that are preoccupied with the implementation of the Court of Auditors' proposals. This would be a useful approach which, in addition to the efficiency that lies in your hands, would bring additional efficiency, because either one will save one's budget money, or measures will be put in place that will also lead to savings. [[Abg. Head: But not the Court of Auditors!]] – Of course from us! If, as it were, the Court of Auditors were properly controlled and then we were going to go through things with the ponale – that is our task, I already see it as our parliamentary task – then the whole thing would be even more effective. This brings me to the second general issue, to the administrative reform: I think there's a ponale right here. Your activity report also shows the standstill here. We discussed this in the committee and you said there was another discussion on Monday. There are four packages completed: two are in discussion, two have already been pushed to the side again. – Please, we then need the instrument of a penalty for the next financial compensation, for the unwilling institutions and bodies that are constantly opposed to administrative reform. Only in this way can we really save money and manage efficiently. And finally the third and last: Mr President, Mr Moser, you yourself have once again explained in the committee how powerless you are in relation to the control of party funding. My colleague Kogler has already presented this in great detail: We need a better, European-oriented party financing law, which finally ends with these black money flows, with these indirect financings through the Industrial Union and other bodies. We need transparency in order for voters to know whether and to what extent the individual parties of lobbyists, individual bodies, interest groups, and then perhaps their policies are based on them. I see this report as very stimulating and hope that our proposal to introduce a pönale will really lead to a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e23992	Next speaker: Mr Huber. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24013	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! In 2009, the Court of Auditors submitted 13 reports with 106 contributions to the National Council. I think it is not enough to stress the importance of the Court of Auditors. But I believe that it is necessary for the Court of Auditors – and we must ensure that there is also an appropriate request from us – to finally start examining the communities. [[Abg. Wheeler: Here you go!]] Because who is testing the communities today? The Control Committee, the County Head Team with the District Captain, the National Accounting Court... – This is not a national treason! [[Abg. Hörl: Huber, that's country treason!]] As a Tyrolean, you need to know what a black spot Tyrol is on this matter. [[Abg. Hörl: That's country treason!]] The communities are not transparent! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As an example, I can cite my home community, the city of Lienz: We have one scandal after another. [[Abg. Hörl: How in Carinthia!]] That's where we built the high stone. Mr Hörl, there have been no public calls for proposals in the building of high stone, and that is a million project! [[Abg. Hörl: There's no such thing as that!]] I will then forward the documents to the President. We finally have to ensure that the communities are properly examined, because the ÖVP mayor is not adequately audited by the ÖVP National Accounting Court; I do not think we need to discuss this. If we keep looking at Lienz: There is no transparency, there is only a standstill and silence – and this silence is broken. I would ask that we in the House at last ensure that the communities can be adequately examined by the Court of Auditors. It has also been seen in the Skylink how important it is that the High House – we from the BZÖ have set the initiative – take steps in this direction. This test is very, very important. I think if we want to make a policy with brain, heart and house mind, we all have to be for it. Support this, especially you from the EIA, so that it will finally continue in the communities to ensure transparency for citizens! – Yes, you can see in Lienz how excellent the mayors are: one scandal after another, one deed zero and the headlines do not implement! [[Abg. Wheeler: Here you go!]] [[Abg. Hörl: We have excellent mayors!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24138	The next speaker was Mr Linder. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24160	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The excellent work of the President of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors has been praised at every meeting. Pretty slowly, I think, one must be afraid and wonder if there is something behind it that is so much praise. But in principle, it is true. If we have heard today in the report that, in addition to all the other examinations, only 17 reports have been submitted concerning the communities, I believe, it is really time for us to work even more strongly on the fact that the Communities are being reviewed by the Court of Auditors. And if today we have listened to the words of Secretary of State Lopatka and have thought a little about it, that he has listed abuses in the various communities in Burgenland, Styria, Upper Austria, in Lower Austria, and that he also believes that many communities are wasting their lives by affording to give food to all children in kindergartens free of charge, I believe – in Carinthia we have a very good system as regards community controls. [[Abg. Hörl: Carinthia don't forget!]] That's where you Tyroleans could cut off a wheel from us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hörl.]] However, I believe that in relation to these issues – even the State Secretary criticises this – it is time for the Court of Auditors to review and get comparable figures from all over Austria, so that we have benchmark numbers so that we can have a basis with which to go into the next financial settlement negotiations. Because it cannot be that we in the House shudder that the graded population key is a problem for us and is a difficulty for the small communities. It can't be that we know today that there is a real imbalance between work communities and residential communities; here the municipal tax belongs more justly distributed. Nor can it be that there is a West-East gap in the distribution, and we mayor, our municipal representatives are resisting an examination. I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that everything you have here scoffed and criticized is a matter of honesty if we are not prepared to review ourselves and let the communities throughout Austria undergo an objective audit by the Court of Auditors. If you want us to have fair numbers and abolish this inequality, I urge you to work hard to ensure that the Court of Auditors can review all communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hörl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24218	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24240	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! For the President, the discussion of the reports is obviously always the same. There is only praise from all sides – and therefore, I think, it is only fair that we are very quick to ensure that all communities come to such an examination. There are a number of examples from the past, not only in Burgenland, but also in other federal states, which undoubtedly nourish the considerations that this development is good. The requirements for this are also very clear. Indeed, the municipal departments that are assigned to them have proved to be inadequate for these tests. The Government Convention provides for the reorganisation of competence, and the corresponding resolution from September of the previous year also states that we are coming to a decision on this subject within six months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is, I think, not primarily the Federal Court of Auditors, the national courts – they are all there and they will also be there in the future. There will also be the need for this because it is too little that the municipalities will only be tested in a sample way. I think it makes sense for us to ensure that all communities can be checked regularly, including with outsourced companies. It is not a question of who, but a question of how, and if the existing accounting courts vote, it will work. It's not about politics, it's about efficiency, and I think we're obliged to do this to the taxpayer. It might also be good if the Court of Auditors were to develop its image of the indicator and the indicator towards the image of a partner; to a partner in whom everyone who is being examined is pleased that he is there because he is ultimately can also provide assistance because it can help to improve and optimise the work – in the specific nature of the communities. I think that if we try to move in this direction quickly, this will also contribute to the limitation of damage, because I believe that what we know up to now is only a fraction of the problems that will actually exist. There is no way that the Court of Auditors will have jurisdiction for the examination of all communities. The Burgenland has already taken on the pioneering role, and I am pleased that as many as possible follow this example.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24300	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24321	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, The Bundesaussungshof submitted a comprehensive annual activity report for 2009, which reflects the variety of suggestions and measures made, which should lead to more economy, efficiency and efficiency. I therefore welcome the fact that these reports can show an increasing degree of implementation from year to year. At this point, I would like to thank the Federal Court of Auditors, as did many colleagues in front of me. This thanks relate to the work mentioned in this report. Ladies and gentlemen! This report also deals very closely with increased competence for the Court of Auditors, and in particular with the extension of audit competence for the municipalities. With a resolution of September last year, we invited the Federal Government to develop a reorganisation of the competences for the community's conduct. I welcome this reorganisation of examination skills, but examinations alone do not result in any change. Because, ladies and gentlemen, why the communities – and especially the small and medium-sized communities – are financially bad, we know. In particular, Mr Jakob Auer has shown this morning a variety of reasons that have led to this. We must use all resources to create structural changes. In particular, in the final coverage of hospitals and the financing of care and care, that is, those areas that are mainly affected by demographic development, we need solutions. Today, changes in financial compensation have often been presented as a cure. – Yes, I also recognise the need to implement improvements for small and medium-sized communities. However, only those means that can be used can be distributed. As we know, however, we unfortunately have to take note of a downward tax situation. In reality, therefore, we will not be able to cover the settlements of the communities either through the financial compensation or through more audits. We need to deal with the causes and find solutions to this, and the Court of Auditors can make an important contribution there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24373	The next speaker was Mr Faul. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24394	Both Mr Presidents! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I speak to the mayor of all the couleurs, Mr President, one of the previous items of the agenda, because I have just read it in the paper: It is interesting to ask you how incomes develop in Austria; on the other hand, I have just read about the problem with rents. – This means that in everyday life things develop that confirm income and a certain income level, but on the other hand do not confirm purchasing power. As far as renting is concerned, I would ask you – this is an approach, an incentive, or maybe there is already that, and I have not yet read it – to filter out the comparison between purchasing power and income growth. I think this is very important, because otherwise, the situation is that people actually have to pay 60 percent, 70 percent of their income for living alone, and actually don't have any money to live. The second issue concerns demand, Mr Moser, and I share the view of my mayor colleagues: Everything that is not asked for has no effect. That's what your results say, confirming that so much has been improved and so much has been changed and so much has been designed to improve as you have stimulated. With regard to the discussion about the communities, I think that if one now introduced a border, it would automatically be called: The communities that have more than 10,000 inhabitants are those that may speed up and cheat, and the communities that have fewer inhabitants need not be checked, which is the honest one anyway. In reality, it should not be kept so apart – and I am also speaking to the colleagues of the ÖVP: I think it is very important that small communities be examined by the Court of Auditors in order to be able to consult them there. If you look around in your districts, as a church representative at the churches – stop interpreting, Hörl, you know exactly what I'm talking about! – then you will insist that very small communities need disproportionately much to allocate needs. I just mention one example I've dug out now: In my district, the 300-inhabitant community needs the same allocation of needs – I didn't say it politically, red and black, all are the same – as the 3000-inhabitant communities in order to meet the basic obligations of the community. It can't be in the future. The 3000-inhabitant communities would also have to say: What's going on? We have quite different tasks to perform – schools, hospitals, hospitals, and, and, – and get as much as the small community that consumes all the money for its operations! – You should think about it and not always think in box! I already know that your communities count up to 3000 inhabitants and we are more successful about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But that can't be it: It can't be loud little communities good communities and the larger communities of cheaters communities. That's not how it is!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24458	The next speaker was Mr Petzner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24480	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If we are discussing the 2009 Annual Activity Report today, I am also allowed to join and interfere with a wish for 2010, namely that we read more in this report on audit competence of the Court of Auditors and audits of the funding of the parties and of party donations in the future. This means that we are massively expanding the audit competences of the Court of Auditors in the area of party finance, thus ensuring greater transparency and control among all parties. I am saying this precisely because this evening a first round of talks between the parties on party finances is taking place. I very much welcome this and hope that, in the course of these discussions, we will also be able to make concrete improvements to the legal provisions, such as the extension of the audit competence of the Court of Auditors, in this area, because I believe that we need urgent action here, as seen in the European comparison. An example: In the majority of European states, no matter what the level, there is an obligation to disclose. This does not apply in Austria. In Austria there is the limit of €7 260, from which you have to report party donations to the Court of Auditors. That's what it was. The Court of Auditors cannot control it, nor does it have any sanctions. – This is an example of how to tighten the rules in the area of transparency, control of party finances and also to tighten them up. A second area, briefly mentioned, is the area of foundations: The SPÖ is responsible for a scandal of the foundation in Styria; it is also the ÖVP of the foundations not entirely lupen-clean. I always wonder which foundations the ÖVP has like that, including the various national parties. – In Upper Austria, for example, there is also such a foundation. So don't point your finger at the SPÖ, but return a little at your own door. We from BZÖ are the only ones who have no foundation. In this context, I should like to stress that it is important that we receive a ban on the foundation in Austria, because it is unacceptable for parties to invest their money in foundations in tax-free fashion. Therefore, I should also like to make the following motion for a resolution by Mr Bucher, Mr Grosz, Mr President of the Commission: The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is asked to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, excluding political parties from being able to use the legal form of the Foundation for themselves." I am already very excited about how the People's Party and the SPÖ will act today in this motion for a resolution on the prohibition of the foundation for parties. It all makes this big on the subject. Mr. Kaltenegger and Mr. Herbs are already in the area of hair. Let's pull one strand together! Let us set a sign, also towards taxpayers, that the parties also save, and we will create this Stiftung ban for parties in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24546	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24604	Mr President of the Dr. Moser Court of Appeal, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, spoke. I'll give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24628	Mr President. High house! Allow me to thank you very much, too, for the excellent cooperation, for the positive control climate, and for the possibility that the reports of the Court of Auditors can be discussed in depth, both in plenary and in the Court of Auditors. In this context, I would like to mention that the value of the Court of Auditors is that of the staff of the Court of Auditors. I'm going to be natural. Their praise and positive response are to be passed on to the employees, because they deserve their praise, and I think they have done excellent work in the last year, as shown in the activity report. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kopf and Mr Stummvoll.]] As far as the demand procedure is concerned, the Court of Auditors' activities are becoming increasingly effective: 81 percent of the 1 140 recommendations have been implemented or are in implementation. It is precisely this that in the area of the communities, too, the recommendations of the Court of Auditors are very much implemented. For example, I should like to point out that 55 percent of the recommendations in the municipalities have already been implemented. This also shows the good control climate that the Court of Auditors has with the municipalities. This control climate is also reflected in the fact that, for example, the municipality has invited the Court of Auditors to cooperate in the preparation of guidelines for the municipal financial instruments. Here too, the constructive cooperation and the consultation approach has brought a lot to the communities, and the statements of words, including by representatives of the local government, can confirm this. So I would like to thank you very much and also ask you to take advantage of your parliamentary possibilities and to further increase the effectiveness of the control and to ensure that the use of funds can be carried out even more efficiently in the future. – Thanks again for the cooperation and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24680	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-101 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this adoption to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on the Federal Government's report on the failure to comply with the Court of Auditors' suggestions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on amendments to the legal provisions of the Foundation, thus excluding political parties from being able to use the legal form of the Foundation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority. Rejected. [[19:30:09]] 5. Point First reading: Request by Dr Kurt Grünewald, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Organisation of Universities and its Studies (University Law 2002) (915/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24755	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24783	Mr President. High house! Allow me to briefly discuss our application for university funding with you and present it. Its objective is to provide 2% of the gross domestic product for the tertiary education sector, in line with EU standards. The application does not stand alone in the research and university landscape, it was also represented 1 : 1 by the University Conference, that is, by 21 rectors of Austria. The EU on the one hand and the rectors on the other, unlike the Federal Government, which originally wanted to achieve the 2020 objective, initially left the year undefined and then put the target ahead for 2015, and not without reason. We are not blind and do not explore the difficult situation, and the Economic Research Institute and numerous experts are also talking about the fact that, in more crisisd financial and economic times, investment in education and research is a driving force for recovery. I hope that the Federal Government will see this too. If one pursues the university dialogue in the ministry, this is a central issue, however – which is completely disregarded – the Parliament has passed a federal financial framework law, which does not show any budgetary increase in the tertiary education sector by 2011. Discussions about the rolling continuation of this four-year federal financial framework are currently beginning and being conducted with the Ministry. I would like to draw your attention to the Ministry and the Federal Government: If there is nothing going on here in the budget, nothing moves, the entire university dialogue and the entire reform of the tertiary education sector are not only questioned but simply hopeless. In other words, the Federal Government must take money to stimulate research, to make Austria competitive and attractive, and to enable universities and researchers to enter into a competition that is also under fair conditions. Without adequate international comparable basic funding in teaching and research, Austria will not be able to start a pick-up process, but it is necessary for the economy to drive jobs so to speak. This is also an opportunity for young people, because without education their opportunities in the labour market, their opportunities to expand scope for action, their opportunities to emancipate to critical citizens. That is, Vice-Chancellor Pröll will have to express himself to this university dialogue. If he doesn't, he wouldn't. I do not wonder if further student protests are now joining further circles. This is not a threat, it is reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24825	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24846	Ladies and gentlemen! I absolutely share the intention of the Greens' request. We have stressed the relevance of science and research for not only the scientific location – as rightly stated in the application – but also the economic location here often. Not least because of this, in the analysis on savings potential presented yesterday, WIFO has explicitly stressed that, as in the field of social science, education and research, it is not saving – on the contrary! – to be invested in the interests of future development of the country. This also supports the argumentation of the request I share. On the question of the financing of universities in the university dialogue, which is difficult to estimate in itself from the moment on, it can already be said from the current point of view that one of the few points that I believe is being dealt with very consensually there is the fact that we need more budgetary resources for our universities. I therefore support, as has been said, the fundamental intensification of this request. I would like to point out that, although the government programme is set out to achieve the target of 2% of the gross domestic product without establishing a certain period of time, a few weeks ago the Council of Ministers decided in a Council of Ministers that this objective should be achieved and implemented by 2020. This is, as it were, a little slower than you mentioned in your proposal, but I would also think that this objective is a very ambitious one. If we were to achieve this goal, I think important steps would be implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have decided here in this House to make a request that I, together with the then-scientific speaker from the ÖVP, with colleague Karl, was able to make, in which exactly this objective was addressed and the Federal Government was asked to implement this objective gradually as well. Since Mr Karl, who has made this request together with me, is now the competent head of the department, I am very pleased that she will also praise and enforce this concern with her party colleague, Mr Finanzminister.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24892	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Cortolezis defeat. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e24913	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Of course, the Federal Minister is behind all the political concerns she has already supported, including as a Federal Minister. I believe that in the first days of her term of office she has already demonstrated very clearly how important this continuity is to her. All the concerns she had before are now also valid – and now they are also supported by the entire Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is our goal to further develop and design the best universities in a European area in Austria and to strengthen Austria's scientific location. The strength of universities, the strength of the scientific area, includes money – not a question – but not only money, but also a number of measures. It takes the assurance of quality. Therefore, there are now also ambitious projects in the direction of quality assurance, which are still to be recorded and can also be made much better evaluable than before. We need the promotion of excellence. Therefore, we also need new models that ensure that the teaching does not go at the expense of research and research at the expense of teaching, but that research and teaching can take place at a very high level. The 2-percent target applies to the entire tertiary area. The universities are an important part of this with their education, with their training, but also with their further education. We have confirmed in all comparison studies in Austria that the public share for universities is above average compared to the private share. This is part of our problem: that we do not yet have sufficient incentives for the private sector. In particular in the tertiary area, it is not only about initial training but also about further training, and we also need private commitment and private offers that are used. We've increased the university budget. This is a sign, Mr Greenewald, that it is important for us to equip the universities accordingly. I can remind you once again: from 2008 to 2009 increase of € 115 million; 2010 by € 192 million. What we are now doing with the university dialogue is creating a common data base. In contrast to other opposition politicians – you have already said this today, Mr Green Forest – you are one who is very active in this, and you therefore also know how different the data is at present and how much it is necessary for a good strategy to create a common basis once. I think it is unique that Minister Karl – before Minister Hahn – is engaged in such a dialogue, with all the figures being revealed and a common view made: Where are we? Based on this, appropriate concepts and recommendations for the Federal Government can then be made in the university dialogue, together with all representatives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The tertiary sector, however, does not only need public funding, and I believe that we should not always be equal: tertiary is university, is public funding, but: The universities are a major part, public funding is a very important part, but we need different funding models, and we should discuss them without ideological barriers and look at how other countries in Europe do. We also like to learn from others in the field of education: an overall concept in the field of education, where we put our education system in a European and international context and develop a variety of models that ultimately ensure excellence and that students choose not only a few courses of study, but also from the whole range of courses of study, because if six out of ten students use only 10 percent of the courses we have to start much earlier in higher education. We must try to ensure that the students have all the information available and use the entire palette. We have study courses where we have the negative phenomenon of mass university – and this has been solved. But we also have courses of study, which have too few students, so too little demand. That means we both need: We need more students in individual fields of study and in other fields of study more evidence that more education is not yet available. More of teachers means, because if you are active in the science of pedagogy, you are not automatically a trained teacher or a trained teacher. But we need more teachers. So many questions that concern us in the university dialogue, which concerns us in the Scientific Committee. I am looking forward to the joint activities and recommendations that we will then give to the Federal Government together.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25000	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Karlsböck. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25022	Mr President. High house! Of course, we can contribute and support the request, which is now present and is a small extract of our demands, but in this debate on the quality and financialability of education more and more comes the train of scrutiny, which threatens the future of our young people and the scientific and research location Austria. The main problem facing us in this context is wrong answers to false questions. At the latest since the abolition of free access to studies, which took place several years ago almost overnight and which presented a massive system break, it was clear that immediate action should have been taken. Our university landscape is part of a grown culture and cannot be fundamentally changed without thoughtful accompanying measures; this does not work. When Austria has also converted the study system into an English-speaking model, the system is simple and simple to crash. One has forgotten to integrate two essential elements of this Anglo-Saxon model: to use more academic staff to support students and to make smaller study groups. Now, when professors gather together with students for protest measures, this exposes the wretched state of Austria's education policy. Our higher education is now overbureaucratised and under-financed. Alternative strategies are largely lacking as they exist in the Scandinavian countries, for example. As an example, it can be mentioned that the Scandinavian countries send their students, who want to study a certain amount of study and do not get a place in their home countries, abroad, taking over the costs of the State. By the way, it is also a very cheap matter to train his students, and it is evidence of creativity. As far as higher education is concerned, we are unfortunately not taking part in a parliamentary discourse. This decision-making has moved to the extra-parliamentary area, where many opinions are expressed, without qualifying them now, but we all know that these opinions, the in these areas, which are not binding on us in any way. That is why I call for the debate to be brought back to where it belongs, namely here in Parliament. As the first and most urgent measure to get some ground under the feet, we suggest that the actual costs per course of study at Austria's universities be determined and evaluated. Based on established and proven study place costs, a study site-related funding of teaching at our universities must be made possible. If public funds are to flow, it is normal and common to evaluate. By the way, as I have been told, this request was already decided in September 2008 at this memorable meeting here in the National Council to be taken out after the elections and on the operation of some university rectors. It cannot be mentioned at this point that several, if not many, applications for the financing of higher education, which we have submitted by the FPÖ, have been rejected or postponed. We have heard a lot about how the opposition is being handled. In any case, we liberals have a real stack of postponed requests in the back. I would just like to make one more brief comment on our most important demands. We have presented a so-called twelve-point programme for Austria's universities, and I would just like to mention the most important points: Free access to higher education without restriction is a matter of course for us. We also call for a commitment to the principle of research-led teaching. We don't want a classroom university. We want to ensure an evaluation of the activity of university management by means of customer or student survey. Of course, as has already been said, we are holding fast to the 2-percent GDP target by 2015, that is to say, the university billions for us liberals. We want to provide additional study places for Austrian students with the aim of enabling 300 000 study places in 2015. We want 3 000 additional posts for teaching staff at Austrian universities by 2015. We want, as has already been said, the creation of study-place-related funding, which should first be evaluated. We want an overall concept for the renovation and replanning of universities. And last but not least, we want an evaluation of the Bologna process. In this context, I would like to refer very briefly to this Bologna process and mention that the Bologna process itself is a positive thing, precisely from the basic trends, because the required and desirable permeability of the curriculum and so give students the opportunity to change their place of study within Europe can only be welcomed. This is a very positive matter, but unfortunately it is not even working in Austria at the moment, because of a misunderstanding autonomy of universities released into independence. There – I see that – a falsely understood “island-humanity” within the universities and faculties has come to grips with it. A change of place of study at Austrian universities is currently not even possible, let alone abroad in Europe. It must be noted that “Bologna” has failed at present. We will cooperate constructively here when it comes to resolving these abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25126	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Widmann. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25147	Mr President. High house! Allow me to say a few words about Austria's largest construction site, namely higher education policy in this country. The green proposal goes in the right direction. He foresees that we will do better in higher education, by € 1 billion by 2015. I have heard today from the speakers of ÖVP and also from SPÖ, if it is allowed to go a little slower, then it is also right. That means you want to increase that by 2020 – I alone lack faith. It would be important and right to hold the higher education debate in Parliament, in the Committee. But I can tell you that at the last Science Committee meeting, for example, we had 20 agenda items, of which 16 were said and written. A similar situation exists in the Environment Committee and in other committees. That's what we heard today. This means that this government listens to the call of the Party Secretariats, to the call of the members of the government, but the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP are in principle only more puppets of these Party Secretariats. Parliament is essentially out of control. Have the courage to discuss with us in the committees, and also have the courage to reject requests you do not like! Then they're done. Because if I hear today that we have 700 applications in the pipeline, then in four years it will simply be around 3,000 applications that will not be completed. Then I wonder what we 183 Members of this House need to do in this House. But back to the university dialogue. I think it is necessary to continue it in Parliament, and there it belongs, and I agree that this university dialogue has already produced some interesting results. I also study with great interest the papers and the basic work being done. But we need to discuss the relevant legal conditions in the Committee. What is important for the universities in Austria? – First of all, you need more money. This is intended to ensure this proposal, which is ultimately found in a weakened form also in the government programme. But we also need other financing options. The issue of reintroduction of tuition fees, as in other countries, must not be a taboo issue. And we also need reforms. For the money, I can say that the universities actually wanted €600 million in 2008. As a result of the crisis, the university rectors have been pressed to 400 million. Finally, it is 355 million more for higher education. If you deduct the tuition fees, then in the end only more than 200 are left. I am allowed to quote here, by Mr Christoph Badelt, who was chairman of the University Conference from 2005 to 2009. He says: Those 157 million € tuition fees that the university has in the budget “due to a serious educational error” If there were no money that the colleges still had to do with it. – That means it would be a right approach to think about it. Badelt also says: “It would have been more efficient to maintain the tuition fees, but about half of the amount spent on replacing them would have been spent on improving the funding of studies.” Thus, one could have reduced ‘social barriers’ that hinder people from studying.” – So also an access that could be discussed. The last thing I would like to add in addition to the subject of tuition fees is that we also need a major administrative reform in the field of science and higher education. If six posts are responsible, namely the Federal Chancellery, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science, Economics and Education, that's just too much. But apparently every red minister needs a black counterpart, and that's how it works. It would also be important to achieve a healthy balance in research funding in Austria. There must be enough space and above all enough money for both things: for applied research in the economy, but also for basic research at universities. Therefore, it is high time to consult and decide on an appropriate research promotion law – a corresponding request from the BZÖ – in Parliament. So that we don't have a fight. On the one hand, the red chancellor says that you have to expand applied research with the research premium, while on the other hand, the new science minister says that basic research needs to be strengthened. So there will certainly not be a match with the BZÖ. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need a pooling of research, teaching and science under one roof and not under six roofs. We need a ministry, a Ministry of Knowledge, a mastermind here in Austria, which can develop and implement appropriate strategies together with the universities and the economy. In this sense, we will also support the Greens' request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25233	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment 915/A to the Scientific Committee. [[19:55:17]] 6. Point First reading: Request by MEPs Werner Herbert, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Law 1979 (BG), BGBl. No. 333/1979 idF BGBl. I No. 153/2009, and the contract staff law 1948 (VBG), BGBl. No. 86/1948 idF BGBl. I No. 6/2010, amended (943/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25275	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25307	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! The intention of my group's present request is to eliminate the disadvantages arising from this change in the area of his rights as a worker, who would like to change from the private sector to a public service relationship, and thus to remove, as I believe, injustice or incomprehensible injustice in the field of civil service rights, but also in the right of contract staff. In concrete terms, this change of law is intended to allow an employee to receive, in the future, the entitlements arising from his previous activity in the private sector from the private sector to move from the public sector to the public service, or to take this right of vacation. This is currently not legally possible. A staff member, an employee currently has only two possibilities: Either he sees that he consumes his vacation before his professional change, which will not always be easy due to the work situation, but probably also due to the legal possibilities available to him in his working world, or he accepts that his acquired holiday claim simply falls. I think that this is an unsatisfying labour situation, which is a major disadvantage for the workers concerned, especially if this change of occupation takes place at an advanced age and because of the low number of years of service remaining to it, the worker is no longer able to obtain a correspondingly large holiday entitlement in the public service. I also believe that the current provisions do not in any way comply with modern service law. I should therefore like to ask you, in the interests of the workers affected by such changes, to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25348	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25369	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Herbert, that was still a legal record about 13 years ago. The FPÖ still united around the clock organized a drumfire against the civil service. Loud privileges, it was called at the time. In a BDG-Novelle this regulation was then introduced at the time. If we were to bring this back to one again today, we would have exactly the same privilege discussion as at the time. I believe that we should try, together, to create a modern right of service for the public service, in social partnership, service representatives, staff representatives and representatives of this House. It is, as I think, already in the process of talking about this. We should do something good, especially in the interests of young colleagues in the public service. One should finally get away from the principle of seniority. So we would also save ourselves an unnecessary privilege discussion. Of course, it makes sense – I remind you, we have always pointed out that – to get experienced colleagues from the private sector. However, it is also questionable whether, if someone is over 40 years of age, he will be charged with the full length of service. So we can't do it that easy. We know these things inside and outside. I would point out that we will work together to create a modern, new service right for the public service in the foreseeable future. This will be an exciting discussion for the future. I do not want to say more about this request, because otherwise we would have to consider how the holiday claim in the private sector is regulated by law, how it is regulated by the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25408	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25430	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal is a bit adventurous overall, so I would put it in place once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the one hand, we would like to achieve equality between public servants and private workers in the calculation of pre-service periods for holidays. As an example, it is stated that for private workers who change to public service, an annual leave already increased to six weeks falls back to five weeks due to a lack of personal pre-service periods. As an example, a 38-year-old is used. The holiday law states that after 25 years you are entitled to six weeks of vacation. Has he started working at the age of 13? - Yeah, that's right, that's where you have to look at the KV. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] So very adventurous, even legal from our point of view not all right. It is also not different: Should he be able to take the entire vacation? According to the law, it expires after three years. This is not different in the application. That means that this would actually be taken away here, which is completely different in the area of workers. There the holiday is paid off. If someone leaves the private sector, then it will be put to zero, and that is why this is not understandable, so very strange. The second is: I can remember what thunderstorms there have been here against the public service, against the teachers, from this side, namely from the FPÖ, when it came to the teachers. The application mentions an HTL teacher who comes from the private sector and is supposed to train or become a teacher. A privilege is now to be created here, which all other workers do not have. In fact, there are five-year leave periods up to seven years. That's how it's in the holiday law. However, consideration must be given to collective agreements. The social partners can agree on an improvement. That's what many businesses have. We do not think that we should now go here and normalize in this case that we should be able to take the pre-service times with us to the full for the holiday entitlement. I assume that this example is from your relationship, Mr Herbert. The application is also legislatively poor, poorly prepared, misses the goal itself and aims at a rose-picking for individual cases. Therefore: Withdraw this request, it will not find a majority!
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25487	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25508	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I too have tried to understand what this request actually wants. [[Calls and calls.]] – Capabilities Would you please do that afterwards? That would be really helpful. Thank you. So I somehow tried to understand what you might mean. I think it's about you that if someone changes from the private sector to a public service relationship, he might not be able to consume the increased holiday rights given in the public service after 25 years. That's what I thought it might make some sense. But then, surprisingly, the example comes with the HTL teacher. It is, as it were, someone who becomes a private-economic technician of HTL teachers. This is really a very unfavorable example, because I assume you know how many holiday weeks he will have as an HTL teacher. That means that the holiday situation doesn't necessarily get worse for him. First point. Another point that is not correct in the explanatory statement: They fear that there is a bad position for people who have been in the public service since their apprenticeship training. This is explicitly regulated, namely that the claims must be assessed from the first day of the training or teaching relationship. It's explicitly in the law. Then we come to the really funny application text itself. Because what did you actually request? – You have requested that the holiday entitlements acquired prior to entry into the public service must be fully taken into account. This is exactly what Mr Wöginger has tried to explain. What would that mean? – If someone is active in the private sector, cancels and still has three weeks of rest leave, then there is the possibility, according to the current legal situation, to consume it either during the termination period or to have it paid out. They suggest that this claim should be transferred to the new service provider. In the case of public servants, the service provider shall be the Republic. This means that the burden on taxpayers is transferred. In the end, then, this is just a little useful. That's all you can say. We would certainly not agree to this request because of a lack of reasonableness.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25558	Next speaker: Mr Windholz. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25579	Mr President. High house! We are in the First Reading. I also had to read this a few times, because there is room for interpretation. I believe that what public service needs is a serious debate about a service right and a new remuneration right. This is obviously an individual case where someone says I have to give up on vacation. If we want to regulate each individual case, it will be quite difficult, but the service law is already extremely complicated. I must agree with the previous speakers that this particular area, as it has been presented, is at least not sufficient for a change of law. But we should take advantage of the opportunity: Service law new. Otto Pendlhat mentioned it. It's a little plausible because we've heard that for so long. He's really there. a rhetorical repeater. We've been announced so many times. The tight cash we now have literally yells for a reform. The slim state, a redundancy in the public service. I would like to point out that there are such fundamental areas. Why do officials and contract staff perform themselves? It differs in certain areas. In my view, the public service needs to be completely re-regulated. One should give up these differences: one with an act of sovereignty, the other with a contract, and the third group are then all those who are admitted temporarily. You should deal with basic things. I call you a concrete example that we are now experiencing, when we see that this legal system really belongs to reformed. Telekom, former post officials, unannounceable, 887 according to media reports, I have just read it again in the “Kurier”, exempt from the service. Since only 34 have accepted the offer to switch to the Federal Ministry of the Interior, a premium payment is now being made. So I have to tell you quite frankly, the taxpayer has no understanding of this if a job is simply lost in the public service, but where else the staff is needed. We always hear where personnel are needed everywhere: Justice, judges are now starting with threats of strike, of course calling for personnel, the whole security area. So there, I think it would be time to change the legal system. It cannot be that one is now licensed, ever higher premiums, so that officials who are now exempt, who naturally receive monthly payments, can get to another department where staff is needed. I think these are things that we need to deal with very quickly. Another example from the school sector, which we have already discussed very widely. This too calls for an urgent reform. I think that these are so important areas, and I find understanding everywhere. It's just the concrete fraction in the ÖVP with our double president, who's against everything and everyone's going. But I believe that the victory that he won at the last election with a minister of teaching as an election assistant was actually a Pyrrhus victory, because the reforms must come, they must not stop, and it is well advised to implement it as quickly as possible in the broadest possible consensus. I believe that we do not need this request, but there must be something completely different, namely a large, comprehensive reform for which we must have at all times.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25639	No one is reporting on this. I'll close the debate. I accept Amendment 943/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[20:10:43]] 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Birgit Schatz, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act (952/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25682	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Honey. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have tabled this request to amend the Consumer Protection Act, which I would like to present briefly. It is important that I consider it urgent that § 25c, which provides for the obligation to inform banks or other creditors to depositors and depositors, be extended. Why is that so important right now? – It is therefore important because more and more people are now facing massive financial difficulties through the crisis. That's why this should be changed as quickly as possible. And what it is all about, I would like to tell you on the basis of an example, an example that has actually happened, but at the same time is just one of many who are now known to us. Imagine, a man takes up a loan to set up a company, and his wife supports him by giving her half of the common house for this credit as a pledge. At the time when the man takes up the loan, he is already in debt. That's what the bank that gives him the credit knows, but it doesn't know the affected wife. At this point, the bank knows that the man with almost security-bound probability is not able to repay this loan. The bank knows that the woman will certainly have to eliminate the husband’s debt with her half of her home, but the bank does not report this enormous financial risk to the woman. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this has fatal consequences. In this particular case, after some time the marriage is divorced – unfortunately, big financial problems result very often – and the man continues to be economically largely unsuccessful and goes into private bankruptcy. And what's the bank doing? – The bank, of course, picks up the house half of the woman, and at the time 58 years without her only housing, is almost literally on the street. Of course, this woman – and many others too – would never have taken this risk, if she had actually known about the man’s already great debt. But she didn't know, just the bank that gave the loan. And that's not all right. It is also completely incomprehensible that the Bank, if the woman had taken over this debt in a different form, would have given her a guarantee or assumed a guarantee that the woman would have had to inform him very much about the debt of the husband. In this case, the Consumer Protection Act simply makes an unacceptable distinction, and I think it is urgently necessary that depositors – that is the technical term – be informed by the banks by law. If people choose the risk anyway, that's their thing, but it's important that they can make these decisions on the basis of all the available information. I believe that this supplement to the Consumer Protection Act is really necessary. I know that an appropriate approach has also been announced in the government programme, but until now nothing has happened, as in so many other cases, as we have already heard today. I hope that this proposal will bring some momentum into the debate, although, of course, I fear that you will eventually delay him, like many other things in the government programme. But in the interests of the many people involved, especially women, I hope that you can get things started quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25765	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25787	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This request is a comprehensive, truthful information on the economic situation of creditors. There is also no objective reason in our view to distinguish between the obligation to inform and not to take the order of deposit into account. Mrs Schatz has already presented the problem: In particular, it affects women who have a residence or other properties. This is an incomplete legal situation, and it must be corrected. For this reason, the 2009 Government Convention already provides for this. It is also intended to provide for the Enforcement Obligations in the case of pledge orders. I would just like to point out two issues which are not covered by the request. We must not reduce the problem to the banks. Unfortunately, loans are increasingly being granted over credit intermediaries in recent times, and there are also pledge orders here. In other words, it would have to be ensured, through the corresponding regulation under the trade regulation, that there would be a clear system here. And the second is the bigger problem at European level, my colleague, treasure. Loans – and this is what we are currently experiencing in the consultation – are granted not only through private, but via partially dubious companies over the Internet. And this problem is not covered by this request. If we are dealing with this issue of an increased obligation to inform or to impose a manufacturing obligation on these groups of persons, we need to take this very area into account. I expect these issues to be addressed in the course of the Stockholm programme, which also includes a large area of judicial agents. We will not be able to solve the problem alone because of the development – lending via credit intermediaries and the Internet – with this provision, because we also need to find a solution. All in all, however, this request must of course be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25827	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25848	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This EU Consumer Credit Directive must be adopted by 11. ==References====External links== Next week's woman Federal Minister Bandion-Ortner put forward an appropriate score for this loan and credit change law to 23. It's on March. Then a mandatory credit assessment of customers will be implemented, a precise definition of contract content, and banks will need to be better informed before a loan is awarded. The next judicial committee was held on 13 November. April 2010 will then present the content of the draft accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25878	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25909	Mr President. High house! In short, as Mr Grillitsch says. Right. It is a question of closing a gap, a gap that has finally opened up. One sees the difference between what the legislator wanted, what was then spread in the teaching, and what is then made of it in the final effect in the case law by the OGH. Of course, it is necessary to take care of a little when clarifying this point, as Mr Maier has already said, when it comes to the obligation to inform, where, in fact, almost most of the loans are going through intermediaries, via the private intermediaries, AWD and as they are all called. Of course, the Connex has to be made with the EU, and this must be done together. The first step, I would recommend, should nevertheless be taken at national level. If it gets close to the EU in time, it is good. On the other hand, it also helps the European Parliament, which seems to be emancipating slowly, but surely to the Commission, if we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25943	Next speaker: Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e25964	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this proposal to amend the Consumer Protection Act has been presented in great detail by Mrs Schatz, where the problem lies. It is really a matter of relief for spouses – very often the women – who are liable for a credit from the partner or ex-partner with their property. If Mr Maier now says that this must not be limited to the banks: This request does not include banks, as private creditors are also meant. That's where the lever is set. In this context, there is already a decision of the Supreme Court of 1 January. February 2007, which according to § 25c of the Consumer Protection Act states that a creditor must point out the economic situation of the debtor to a consumer who joins a liability as a co-debt, guarantee or guarantee, in order to recognise that the debtor is not likely to fulfil his obligations. But that this is not applicable to depositors, that is the problem, and that is what it is about now. In my opinion, this request is important, and this should be changed in the sense of the Consumer Protection Act. I just hope that this request will not be postponed. Mrs. Schatz, I just don't understand one thing: They have written in the request that it be allocated to the judicial committee. I think that should be dealt with in the Consumer Protection Committee. We had 15th. On 4 April the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to exposure to certain dangerous substances. So far, she has always refused to be available for a general debate. In any case, I am in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26006	No one has been reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. I agree with the motion for a resolution 952/A to the Committee on Justice. [[20:22:48]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Criminal Code (StGB) (954/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26049	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hofer. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26076	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am well aware of how very serious this issue is, this request we are going to deal with. We, as politicians, are faced with various forms of discrimination when it comes to disability policy and are trying to prevent discrimination. It is about disadvantages for disabled people at work, in school, in school education, in buildings when accessibility should be built, and also about access to the Internet. The most massive form of discrimination is, however, if one cannot be born due to a deviation from a medical standard, ladies and gentlemen. The time-limit solution does not apply to disabled lives in Austria. If there is a risk of deviation from a medical standard, a child may also be deported and killed in the ninth month. And disabled organisations criticize very massively that there is no catalogue that determines what kind of deviation this deviation must be from the medical standard – or the danger of deviation, one has to say, because there must only be a risk of deviation – which kind of danger must be of deviation so that such killing of life is permitted immediately before birth. A well-known physician has told him in this context that several cases were known to him, where children were killed by heartbeat before birth, by a syringe into the heart. These children were then brought into the world and then perished. It is likely that people who have spoken on this request have also reported to you. In my view, it has been people with disabilities who have reported themselves and who would never have come to the world under these circumstances. However, there were also parents, many, many parents of disabled children who underlined the importance of implementing this application and who underlined that their child is not a injury case and that her child is not an unvalued life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must ask ourselves why it must be so that a killing is legal five minutes before the birth in Austria, but a killing a few seconds after birth is not legal. I believe that, as a developed society, we must be able to make a change here, a just change that ensures that disabled life is not regarded as a damage, that disabled life is equivalent to life, and that there must ultimately be the same opportunities for disabled life as for life that is free from physical or mental disability – or largely free, because everyone is more or less disabled in any form. Ladies and gentlemen! I have made this request, if it fits into a agenda item over the next few months, and I ask the clubs to release the vote on this important point and allow the mandaters to vote in full knowledge and conscience. That is, I think, something completely essential. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26139	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26161	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofer, it is indisputable that this is one of the most difficult to solve in the whole legal area, because it is certainly a conflict situation, probably one of the most difficult conflict situations in which this person, this mother, is located. Therefore, there have also been comprehensive discussions in connection with the solutions at § 96 and § 97 of the Criminal Code, which have tried to understand all aspects here and to find a perspective from which we need to look for regulations here. I may say very briefly that there is no legal reality in the case you have presented, because there is a doctor's law that imposes restrictions, and there is experience that there is no intervention later than after 24 weeks. Every intervention is an intervention too much, no question at all, but there are not targeted methods, it is not something that can be calculated classically. It is an emergency situation that arises where mothers have to deal with the situation they are in. In some situations, they feel that they are doing it, they are able to provide a young person with the appropriate framework conditions, and in some situations they are not. The criminal law is the worst possible solution here. The criminal law is certainly not the solution that helps, but the solution that helps to create a framework here, to do persuasion work, to put a solidarity note: You can do it, we can do it, we give you the appropriate framework conditions here, because, of course, in these cases it is a social responsibility to help. This is impossible for a single person, and all that happens in a human being in such an exceptional situation, this need in which he is, it should be what we judge. Therefore, I would really warn against pushing this aside and looking at the classical-nigher and saying: We condemn people who do. I think we have to put ourselves in there, more than in all the other materials, because it is one of the most delicate and therefore most difficult to solve. The question is: How do we deal with this? This was with fug and law the solution that was found at the time, namely that criminal law is not the right solution here. We must prevent such situations from happening, we must prevent abortions, but not criminal law, but with framework conditions that create confidence, where we simply give each individual the opportunity to say that I can do this. I would really ask that we put this aspect in the foreground. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26212	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. Fixed speaking time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26233	Mr President. High house! The debate is a request from my colleague Norbert Hofer, a very important request, which is absolutely discussed. I must also admit, however, that this request already smells a little after a delay, because you mentioned it earlier. I will work to ensure that it is properly discussed in the Committee on Justice, and I think that is the right forum for this. The topic of embryopathic indication must be discussed sensitively, especially without ideological reservations. This is very important in order to find an objective solution. I would also like to stress that this is not an abortion debate within the framework of the deadline. The time-limit is beyond discussion, but this derogation, the embryopathic indication, must be discussed. ==References====External links== The week of life of disabled children is simply unbearable, because from this point on, the child is viable outside the womb and must be killed by a heartbeat; at least this is the treated gynecological practice. I am in favour of the removal of the Eugenic indication, but it is essential that there is a framework – framework conditions that more support the becoming parents. There is a particular need to mention the advice. The consultation must not only be medically deficient, but must also provide positive aspects and perspectives. Also, advice should not be given by the outgoing doctor, but should be separated. Consideration and discussion is also a reflection between diagnosis and abortion. In Germany it is two to three days. I think that's a good solution. The topic of embryopathic indication will also follow us in damages law. The ECJ judgments are largely based on late abortions, and I advocate that this be treated as an overall package. I would warn against a vote in Parliament at this time. It certainly needs more knowledge, more education, more information. And if you really want a conscience vote, which is too superior – so I am not personally averse – then this must not be a nameary vote, but must be an anonymous vote, because only in one election cell is you alone with your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26277	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. I would also ask you to take the appropriate measures for this speech. The voluntary time limit is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26298	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot. It is a delicate subject, however – I can really support my colleagues Huainigg –: We have to consider this very well and discuss it well. I'm disabled myself. Is my life unworthy? - No, I don't. I feel good and I don't want to exchange with anyone. I also do not want to exchange my disability with anything else. This is a question of perspectives. What we really need is that society begins to rethink. It is important for us to include the UN Convention in the law on equal treatment for disabled persons and to lay down the conditions laid down by law here. We should also consider the right of compensation. Many doctors are putting pressure on this issue because they fear a complaint, perhaps also at the Supreme Court. That is why they point out this, and that should be changed. The French example allows only in the case of defects in art to claim damages from doctors. That is why we should really consider where we can best advise, support and offer everything so that we can achieve a positive perception in society. The decision-making process of parents also depends on how society sees disabled children. If it is possible to get support where they go, it will also look different. That's why, I think, we should consider this very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26346	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. Fixed speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26368	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This issue is a very difficult one, a very complex one and also a very emotional one, as we have just heard in the previous debate. I do not now see first and foremost the case of discrimination against the disabled, but I now see it as a woman from my point of view. It has so far only mentioned one woman, Mrs Jarmer of the Greens. I think it should still be freed from a woman, as she decides, in the case of a diagnosed serious disability of her unborn child, whether she wants to have the child or not. That this is a very difficult decision is quite clear. Many women may act indignantly – in general terms with regard to abortion. I am absolutely opposed if women do not deal with contraception, become pregnant, drift away, drive off several times, and destroy healthy life. So this is absolutely not to be supported. On the other hand, I am also speaking out. But if there's a disability, that's another thing for me. I would also like to be able to decide on this personally. According to recent surveys, there are around 800 late abortions in Germany. On the other hand, 130,000 ‘normal’ abortions. In Austria, according to Professor Husslein, there are 500 abortions due to severe disabilities that go beyond the three-month period. This request will certainly be discussed in the Committee on Justice. I believe that the current rules should be maintained. The aim is to expand the care facilities and the care facilities so that the women who have parents have better advice. I am of the opinion, as has been said, that the existing rules should be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26413	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26434	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One has already seen to my previous speakers that this is quite a subject that affects many who have a very emotional relation. It is also important to consider this well. I think it is important, above all, to stress that this should not be a quick decision, not in the sense of a delay of time, but in the sense of a good common thought, the involvement of many experts, perhaps some of the victims of the past, in order to find a genuine solution here. And that's my appeal. In this connection, I should like to thank my colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg, who held an event with us in the ÖVP Club in December, where various people from jurisdiction, but also from the Prenatal Diagnostics, were involved and described the practice of how these deliberations took place in advance and the investigations. What I learned from it: Prenatal diagnostics already have many positive aspects. It is often used – in the course of these effects of the OGH Judicatur, which we have already discussed – not only to check whether an indication is given for abortion or not. That's not the case at all. The ladies and gentlemen at our disposal have given us the exact opposite impression. They are really concerned about maintaining this life and enabling the affected parents to make a yes possible to a disabled child. On the other hand – and this too is to be emphasized – prenatal diagnostics and a very intensive research practice, which is already in place, are also used in the run-up to providing the child with a good chance of survival and healing even at this stage, and in the end, so to speak, to the emerging life and then to the born child. So that's really the main focus of this diagnosis and not giving rise to an abortion. But, of course, it is already true that, since the introduction of this provision, one has to look at the development of the possibilities of diagnostics, which may also, together with a certain Judicatur, which has been judged in recent years, can be seen in the direction or seen in such a way that pressure will be exerted on the doctors who, in case of doubt, would be more likely to have an abortion. I believe that there is a need to say that we are doing everything we can to exclude this, and there really must be very intense and very constructive possibilities to exclude this fatal consequence, if it happens in part. I think that's important. That is why my appeal to Mr Hofer: I would not necessarily put the matter to the fore in the sense of the matter – I too am very much concerned about the matter, especially on this point. One should not make an unselfish request and ask for a decision of conscience, so to speak, across all parties. I don't think this would do well. It would be better to have an intensive dialogue, to listen together to many experts and try to find a solution together. That would be my appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26486	Mr Fichtenbauer has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. 5 minutes speaking time is set. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26507	Mr President. High house! This matter is, at least, far too valuable and too important to be used as standard parliamentary procedures. This was certainly not the intention of Mr Hofer. Mr Donnerbauer. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of getting closer to the matter with a dimension of responsibility before life, which may exist but may be taken. The words of Mr Jarmer and Mr Huainigg were very valuable and suggest that, and this is essential for this story, a movement of willingness to approach this infinitely difficult subject comes across the party borders in a way that opens up a new dimension of humanity. It is true, Mr Jarolim, that the criminal code for serious social conflicts is not the right answer, but the criminal code shows the limits of society's tolerated or no longer tolerated action. After all: If the medical indication does not exist, abortion will be punishable from the third month of life. It is never right if there is no medical indication. It is always illegal, but it is not punishable before the third month of life. And if I can remember: The historical situation in 1973, when the criminal code was passed, was characterized exclusively by the medical indication in relation to abortion under the Broda rule, if I may say so. Only after the famous Villacher Party Day, on which the SPÖ women gave a clear vote to resolve time, and Broda could not afford to have a storm in its own ranks and risk the law of the Criminal Code, did the time-limit solution come. It is also true that Mr Donnerbauer said that worlds separate us from the diagnostic capacity that was possible in 1973/74, to today's standard. For all these reasons, it is deeply necessary and extremely important that this today's request by Mr Hofer be the beginning of a responsible discussion. We will not insist on him as a parliamentary routine case, as I have already said, in any way to come to some sort of decision, but a broad human, responsible discussion should be the right way. And I would remind you, especially Mr Jarmer's words, that there is also a point of order from our side, from me the own-initiative request concerning the compensation of the Supreme Court, "The Child as a Harmful Case". This is a closely related topic that has been correctly highlighted. In this bundle, this area of legal problems, the subject is to be dealt with in a comprehensive, responsible and human way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26550	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 954/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:50:01]] Vote on requests for time-limits
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26589	We shall now proceed to the vote on the time-limits which I shall make in each case. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on Amendment 644/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act (B-VG) and a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Reg. 1975) until 23. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Peter Fichtenbauer, the Justice Committee for Reporting on Amendment 80/A by Dr Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on a federal law with which the Criminal Code (StGB), BGBl. No. 60/1974 i.d.f., is amended, a period of until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Norbert Hofer, the Family Committee on Reporting on Amendment 133/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues with regard to voluntary social year – granting the family allowance a period of up to 24 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall immediately vote on the request made by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, the Transport Committee for Reporting on Amendment 172/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues on the construction of infrastructure projects under the 2002 General Transport Plan. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We are now voting on the request of Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, the Committee on Foreign Affairs to report on Amendment 44/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues with regard to referendum on Austria's exit from the Euratom Treaty. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall therefore vote on the request by Mr Herbert Kickl, the Economic and Industrial Committee for reporting on Amendment 129/A(E) by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on part-time teaching. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the request of Mr Werner Herbert, the Constitutional Committee on Reporting on the motion for a resolution 156/A by Mr Werner Herbert, colleagues on a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Pensions of Federal Officials (Gehaltsgesetz 1956 – GehG), BGBl. No. 54/1956, amended, a period of until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Harald Jannach, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to report on Amendment 39/A(E) by Mr Harald Jannach, colleagues in the field of wood mobility, until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Gerhard Kurzmann, the Committee on Internal Affairs, to report on the request 238/A(E) by Mrs Dr Gerhard Kurzmann, colleagues in foreign language local names, formerly German cities in documents of the Republic of Austria, with a time limit of 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request made by Mr Bernhard Themessl, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 6/A(E) by Mr Bernhard Themessl, colleagues with regard to discharge of citizens due to the financial crisis, which has become absolutely necessary. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the request by Mr Alois Gradauer, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to report on Amendment No 213/A(E) by Mr Alois Gradauer, colleagues with regard to the possibility of partial wiring of 380 kV lines. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the request by the honourable Member. Roman Haider, the Tourism Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 497/A(E) by Mr Mag. Roman Haider, colleagues with regard to Master Plan Tourism, a period of until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:57:06]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2010-02-24-024-XXIV-NRSITZ-00055_d8e26937	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 978/A to 1020/A were tabled at the meeting. Questions 4543/J to 4590/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 20.57 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
